DRN-3867664
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage that Mrs and Mr P hold with Belmont Green Finance 
Limited trading as Vida Homeloans (Vida). The essence of the complaint is that Vida didnt 
make it clear to them that the payment break agreed during the first COVID-19 pandemic 
lockdown in 2020 didnt include the completion interest from when the mortgage started. 
This meant the completion interest went unpaid after the payment break ended, and blocked 
Mrs and Mr P from accessing a new fixed rate deal when their initial rate ended earlier this 
year. 
What happened
By way of two provisional decisions, dated 16 November and 5 December 2022 respectively, 
I set out my provisional conclusions on this complaint. The following is an extract from the 
second provisional decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The information Vida has provided in response to my provisional decision changes 
things; I have to say, however, I am at a loss as to why it did not provide this 
information when our investigator first asked for it. It would have been helpful to know 
not just what product Mrs and Mr P would have been offered in February 2022, but 
also what the variable rate was in the interim period.
For all the reasons I set out in the first provisional decision, I remain of the view that 
Vida failed to tell Mrs and Mr P what they needed to know when they needed to know 
it. The letter from November 2021 might warn of difficulties in borrowing money in 
future if the arrears werent cleared, but it didnt warn that eligibility for a new rate 
would be affected too.  
I also remain of the view that, if they had been better informed, Mrs and Mr P would 
have acted to preserve their eligibility for a new rate and, would in all likelihood, have 
taken a two-year deal at 5.14% if it had been offered to them in February 2022. What 
is now not so obvious, is whether they are better or worse off, in the long term. Yes, 
the rate they would have taken in February 2022 is lower than the rate they took in 
October 2022, by 0.2%. 
But based on what Vida has now told us, the variable rate between April and 
September 2022 inclusive was lower than 5.14%, by as much 0.65%. This begs the 
question, and it is incumbent on Vida to answer it, is whether the one outweighs the 
other. I think it likely that Mrs and Mr P would have been better off over time if they 
had taken the 5.14% deal in the spring of 2022 rather than the 5.34% deal in the 
autumn with SVR in between. But to be sure, Vida, as part of its response to this 
second provisional decision, will need to provide comparative calculations to 
demonstrate which of the two alternative products results in the least cost to Mrs and 
Mr P over their respective terms.
As to the point about credit reporting, Id ask Mrs and Mr P, as part of their response 
to this second provisional decision, to provide full unedited copies of their respective 
credit files, in order that I can assess the fairness or otherwise of what Vida has 
reported on them. To be clear, if this information isnt provided, I cant make any 
order that Vida should amend its reporting.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint, by ordering Belmont 
Green Finance Limited trading as Vida Homeloans to do the following:
in the event that it is shown to be financially beneficial to Mrs and Mr P, replace 
the two-year fixed rate of 5.34% agreed in August 2022 and starting on 1 October 
2022 with the two-year fixed rate of 5.14% that Vida has said would have been 
available to choose on 1 February 2022 and starting on 1 April 2022; 
in the event that replacing the product is beneficial to Mrs and Mr P, and if they 
so request it, refund the resultant overpayments with interest, less tax if 
applicable, as set out above
in the event Mrs and Mr P provide evidence of adverse reporting of the arrears, 
amend their credit files to reflect how theyd appear if the April 2020 interest had 
been paid in May 2020; and
pay Mrs and Mr P £300 compensation for their time, trouble and upset.
In the event that the calculations show Mrs and Mr P to be better off overall on the 
product they have currently, then I shall simply order Vida to pay Mrs and Mr P 
compensation of £200. This lower amount reflects that they have been put to a great 
deal of time and trouble, but removes the element I included to reflect the worry of 
paying SVR during the interim, given that it was in fact, lower rather than higher, than 
either of the fixed rates.
As with the first provisional decision, I gave both parties two weeks to provide further 
evidence and comment. That time has now passed, and both parties have responded.
Mrs and Mr P emphasised how they had acted immediately to deal with the arrears, once 
they became aware there was a problem. They arranged things over a phone call, during 
which they said they asked if the payment arrangement would affect their credit file or their 
ability to get a new rate, and were told no on both counts. Mrs and Mr P also took issue with 
the proposed rate of 5.14%, saying the upward movement in rates generally hadnt started 
on 1 February 2022.
Vida provided the calculations I asked for, which show that Mrs and Mr P would be better off 
financially, by around £225, if they were now to be switched to the two-year fixed rate of 
5.14% that Vida has said would have been available to choose on 1 February 2002 to start 
on 1 April 2022. Vida also provided recordings of its phone conversations with Mrs and Mr P, 
which we requested following Mrs and Mr Ps response.
Vida again asked that I take into account that when it offered Mrs and Mr P the chance to 
access the portal to apply for a new rate as a concession, they didnt take it immediately. It 
also asked me to consider that the product Mrs and Mr P are on now might actually offer 
them more certainty for longer, and that theres no way of knowing how the mortgage market 
conditions will look in March and October 2024, the respective end dates of the two 
alternatives.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided. Having done so, 
I havent changed my mind that the complaint should be upheld in Mrs and Mr Ps favour. 
But I will address the comments from both parties.
In response to Mrs and Mr Ps point about the general level of interest rates, its not the case 
that they only began to rise after 1 February 2002; the Bank of England Base Rate rose in 
December 2021. Also, borrowers generally dont only take a new rate because it is lower 
than what they already had; fixed rates are also about stable budgeting and certainty; Ill 
come back to that in due course.
Ive listened to the phone conversations Mrs P had with Vida on 15 November 2021, when 
the arrangement was set to sort out the arrears. Vida has said Mrs and Mr P didnt raise their 
comments about the phone conversations in their original complaint. Im not sure what point 
Vida is trying to make there. The phone calls are relevant evidence regardless of when 
Mrs and Mr P first mentioned them, and having listened to them, I have to say they dont 
help Vidas case.
When discussing the duration of the payment arrangement, Mrs P indicated they preferred 
six months starting in December 2021. But they also said they didnt want any problems 
when it came to getting a new deal; Vidas first call handler didnt draw their attention to the 
conflict in those two objectives. 
She told them thered be no impact on their credit score and no monthly arrears 
management fees, and then told them about the mechanism for requesting a new rate when 
the time came. But she didnt tell Mrs P that this mechanism wouldnt work if they were still in 
arrears. Mrs P was passed onto a second call handler, who gave her more information about 
the online mechanism for selecting a new rate. Mrs P looked this up whilst still on the line, 
and this told her she couldnt access rates because of the arrears. She was then transferred 
to a third call handler who told her, in summary, that the system needed 24 hours to update 
with details of the payment arrangement she had just agreed, and all would then be fine.
Regarding Vidas further comments, Ive already taken account of the point about 
Mrs and Mr P not immediately applying for a new rate when it provided them the concession 
in response to their complaint. Had they done so, its reasonable to infer theyd have been 
offered the two-year fixed rate of 5.14% that Im now proposing Vida switch them to. So its 
not material to the outcome.
Vida makes a valid point about what might or might not be happening in the mortgage 
market depending on whether Mrs and Mr P are looking for another new rate in March 2024 
or October 2024. But that isnt a reason for me not order the switch of product as part of the 
settlement of the complaint. Its simply something for Mrs and Mr P to think about when 
deciding whether to accept the final decision and the settlement it provides them with. So, 
allow them to make that decision freely, Mrs and Mr P can, if they wish, accept the final 
decision on its broad outcome, thus making it binding on both parties. But if they prefer to 
leave the mortgage as it is, they can still receive the compensation I am awarding.
Mrs and Mr P havent sent us their credit files; that means I wont make any award regarding 
the information Vida has reported. Also, Mrs and Mr P havent said theyd like the 
overpayments that would result from the mortgage being switched to the 5.14% rate 
refunded to them. That means the overpayments will stay on the mortgage account.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, by ordering Belmont Green Finance Limited 
trading as Vida Homeloans to do the following:
unless Mrs and Mr P indicate their preference that the mortgage stay as it is, replace the 
two-year fixed rate of 5.34% agreed in August 2022 and starting on 1 October 2022 with 
the two-year fixed rate of 5.14% that Vida has said would have been available to choose 
on 1 February 2022 and starting on 1 April 2022; and
regardless of whether Mrs and Mr P indicate a preference for the mortgage to be 
changed as above, pay Mrs and Mr P £300 compensation for their time, trouble and 
upset.
I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 January 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman