DRN-2373973
The complaint
Miss M complained about how esure Insurance Limited handled her car repairs after she 
claimed under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
 Miss Ms car was damaged when another car hit it while it was parked during the night. The 
driver responsible didnt stop or provide any details.
Esure arranged for her car to be repaired. But she said that their garage didnt repair it 
properly. So esure instructed an independent engineer to inspect the car and assess the 
standard of the car repairs. The engineer agreed that rectification work was necessary and 
estimated the cost of that work as being about £700. Esure offered Miss M several options 
for this. They said that the rectification work could be done by the same garage, or another 
of esures approved repairers. Alternatively she could choose a garage and esure would pay 
the cost up to the amount that the independent engineer estimated, or they would settle with 
her in cash for about that amount. 
They also offered her compensation of £200. They said theyd given her a hire car until 
theyd finished the complaint investigation and would give her a hire car again during the 
rectification work, if she chose that rather than the cash settlement option. 
But Miss M didnt want any of these options. She felt that the independent engineer report 
was wrong and that the engineer wasnt independent but worked for esure and was colluding 
with them. So she instructed her own independent engineer report and garage estimate for 
the work. These together suggested a total rectification cost of over £3,000. This was much 
more than the esure instructed independent report said and was based on another garage 
providing genuine manufacturer parts.
The investigator recommended that her complaint should be partly upheld. He thought that 
the initial repairs had been substandard but esure were entitled to have a chance to put 
them right and the options and costs theyd offered for that were reasonable. As he also 
explained, if there were further issues after that, this service could look into them. 
But he thought that the compensation theyd offered wasnt enough to reflect the 
inconvenience of the repairs being redone and esures lack of communication. He thought 
that £300 compensation reflected that better.
Miss M didnt agree and so her complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision on 5 October, partly upholding the complaint. Miss M responded to it 
and Ive dealt with her comments below. Esure havent replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We don't assess damage to a car as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the 
insurers and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine if the insurer has 
considered all the available evidence and whether they can justify their decision.
In this case esure have agreed to authorise repairs to a certain amount in reliance on their 
independent report rather than that obtained by Miss M, which suggests much higher costs. 
We take the view that just because an insurer instructs someone it doesnt mean that the 
person is not independent, unless we see evidence to the contrary, but Miss M hasnt 
provided that.
Esure said that both independent reports said the same work, but Miss Ms report 
acknowledged that the rectification must be done first. Miss M felt that what esures report 
was quoting for rectification wasnt enough to do it properly and she would be no further 
forward. But I dont think esures position is unreasonable. They are entitled to rectify the 
substandard repairs and theyve explained why they thought their costings were reasonable.
Miss Ms independent report costs the repairs using genuine manufacturer parts. It says 
Miss M wants these and thought she was going to get these but that no genuine parts seem 
to have been used. But Ive looked at the policy and it says on page 12 that esure may use 
parts which aren't made by the manufacturer of your car if they're the same type and quality 
of the ones we're replacing" . So I think its clear in the policy that esure arent obliged to 
provide genuine manufacturer parts during repair. That means theyre not obliged to provide 
them during rectification either. Overall therefore, I think that esure were entitled to rely on 
their own independent report in preference to Miss Ms.
Miss M was also unhappy with the courtesy car, which she said didnt feel safe, and cost her 
more in petrol than it should, and that the garage was condescending to her when she raised 
this. Esure say that she didnt give them the chance to deal with those complaints at the 
time, and she hasnt provided any evidence that the courtesy car was unsafe to drive.
Esure also said that but if she doesnt want to deal with the garage, she can choose another 
garage. They also said that theyd given her a courtesy car for longer than they were obliged 
to under the policy, while they investigated her complaint regarding the repairs.
I think its understandable if Miss M didnt want to go back to the first garage because she no 
longer trusted them. But its clear that esure did offer her the different alternative options 
above. And as this included using a garage of her choice, I think thats reasonable. Miss M 
also said shed incurred other losses, such as having to take time off work to pick up and 
drop off the courtesy car. But, as the investigator explained, we expect people to have these 
sorts of costs when dealing with an insurance claim and so insurers arent obliged to cover 
these. 
Miss M felt that esure were penalising her for something that hadnt been her fault, as she 
had to pay the policy excess and it affected her future premiums. But as esure rightly 
explained, the policy excess must be paid when a claim is made regardless of who was at 
fault. And because there was no third party for Miss Mr to claim against, esure couldnt 
recover their costs, and thats what would have an effect on her insurance premiums and no 
claims discount. The investigator explained that too.
I do think its very unfortunate that Miss Ms car was damaged through no fault of her own, 
and I can see that she has found the situation very frustrating and doesnt feel the same 
about her car any more.
She also wanted much higher compensation for what she says was the anguish esures 
actions caused her. But I thought that esure are entitled to remedy their initial poor repairs 
and that they acted fairly and reasonably towards her in giving her the options they did. However I thought that her inconvenience caused by the substandard repairs and for their 
poor communication was more adequately reflected by compensation of £300 than £200.
In her response to my provisional decision, Miss M commented generally about agreements 
that she felt insurers had with their approved repairers that she felt prejudiced customers. 
But I dont comment on that as the role of this service is to consider individual complaints. 
Miss M was willing to accept my provisional decision. Esure havent replied within the 
timescales so I assume they have nothing else to add. Accordingly I see no reason to 
change my original decision. 
Putting things right
I think that esure should pay Miss M £300 compensation overall, less anything they have 
already paid. Miss M should speak to esure direct about what bank account she wants to 
receive payment into, and about any previous payment esure may have made, as this 
service doesnt get involved in payment arrangements.
 
My final decision
For the reasons, Ive given above and in my provisional decision its my final decision that I 
partly uphold this complaint. I require ensure Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Miss M a total of £300 in compensation for the trouble and upset she 
experienced, less the £200 if they have already paid that. 
Esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Miss M 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If esure consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Miss M how much they have taken off and give Miss M a 
tax deduction certificate if s/he asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
