DRN-3590432
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs H complain about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
(Lloyds)handled a claim they made on their home insurance policy.
Reference to Lloyds includes its agents.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs H hold a home insurance policy with Lloyds. After an escape of water, they 
made a claim for the damage caused.
Their complaint relates to that claim. Theyve said Lloyds took far too long to authorise the 
repairs and that they were given conflicting unhelpful advice throughout. Theyve also said 
that theyve incurred increased costs due to Lloyds delay to authorise the work.
At the point the complaint came to us, the repair work still hadnt been authorised. But since 
its been here, the work has since been given authorisation. This authorisation includes the 
increased cost of quotes.
Lloyds originally offered £400 compensation but has since increased its offer to £1,000 in 
total.
Our investigator thought Lloyds revised offer was fair. They thought it reasonably reflected 
the distress and inconvenience caused by Lloyds handling of the claim. But they thought 
Lloyds wasnt responsible for the increased costs relating to rooms unaffected by the escape 
of water that Mr B and Mrs H were claiming for.
Mr B and Mrs H disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt handle this claim in a 
manner that Mr B and Mrs H could have reasonably expected it to. But Im also satisfied its 
offer to put things right is fair and reasonable. I understand this wont be the answer Mr B 
and Mrs H were hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
Any claim is likely to cause a level of distress and inconvenience. Especially one that 
damages your home. Ive considered the increased distress and inconvenience by 
Lloyds, beyond what could reasonably be expected during a routine handling of a 
claim.
Its not in dispute that Lloyds handled this claim poorly. It caused unreasonable 
delays. Its communication was poor. It didnt pass on important reports and updates 
to Mr B and Mrs H. This would have undoubtedly added to the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the escape of water and the routine handling of an 
insurance claim.
Lloyds appointed an assessor which incorrectly valued Mr Bs and Mrs Hs contents 
and damaged more of Mr Bs and Mrs Hs property. That assessor was ultimately 
replaced but this too caused delays, distress and inconvenience.
In dealing with the claim, Lloyds needed to replace items and property damaged by 
the escape of water. It doesnt need to replace items not affected by that escape.
Mr B and Mrs H chose to carry out work to other parts of the house unaffected by the 
escape of water. This was to keep the house looking coordinated throughout. This is 
a completely understandable decision to make, but this was their choice, and its not 
something Lloyds are responsible for.
Mr B and Mrs H arent claiming for the cost to carry out this work, but they are 
claiming for the increase in the quotes from when they were original quoted for the 
work, to when they were able to complete it.
I dont find it reasonable to hold Lloyds responsible for this increase. Because, 
ultimately the work isnt needed as part of the claim. I appreciate it couldnt be 
completed earlier, and the delay has been caused by Lloyds. But its not essential 
work, and it wasnt caused by the escape of water Lloyds. Therefore, I dont find 
Lloyds responsible for the increase in cost.
Im satisfied the total offer of compensation of £1,000 is reasonable to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delays, miscommunication and overall 
poor handling of this claim.
If not done so already, Lloyds should pay Mr B and Mrs H the additional £600 
compensation, to take the total amount paid to £1,000. If its already paid this, it need 
pay no more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman