DRN-3090227
The complaint
Ms B complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under her home 
emergency policy.
What happened
In September 2020 Ms B contacted Aviva to report a fault with her boiler. An engineer visited 
and found several parts were required to complete the repair. Due to the type of boiler Miss 
B had it was difficult to locate these parts. 
Ms B was in regular contact with Aviva over the next few weeks. Some of the parts were 
obtained but the repair couldnt be completed. During a telephone conversation in mid-
October 2020 Avivas call handler mentioned the boiler may be beyond economical repair, 
highlighting the ongoing difficulties in getting hold of parts. 
The spare parts were eventually sourced, but the specialist engineer dealing with the repair 
had contracted covid-19 and was isolating. The earliest he could attend was at the end of 
October 2020. Aviva identified another engineer who could attend a few days earlier. But it 
said the engineer wouldnt take the parts already ordered, as they would need to diagnose 
the fault independently.
Ms B decided that because of the delays, and cold temperatures she and her partner 
couldnt wait any longer. She arranged for a new boiler to be installed and requested a £500 
contribution in-line with the policy terms as their boiler was beyond economical repair (BER). 
Aviva agreed to £300 compensation for the delays and poor handling of the claim. It said the 
part needed to complete the repair was available, so the boiler wasnt BER. This meant the 
policy terms didnt require a £500 contribution to be paid. Ms B was unhappy and 
complained to this service.
Our investigator decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint. She thought the wording of the policy 
terms meant the boiler was BER. As a result, she said Aviva should pay £500 toward the 
cost of a new boiler, in addition to £300 in compensation.   
Aviva disagreed with the investigators understanding of the BER definition and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint. It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided to uphold Mss complaint. My findings are broadly the same as the 
investigators, and I will explain why I think this is fair. 
The terms of the policy say:
On assessment of your main heating system, our engineer may declare it to be beyond
economical repair; this means:
the cost of parts (including VAT) to repair the main heating system is greater than 
85% of the manufacturer's current retail price of a replacement or a similar model, or
we are unable to obtain the required manufacturer's spare parts from our suppliers to 
complete the repair, within 28 days.
And:
In the unlikely event that your main heating system is declared beyond economical repair, 
we will advise you to replace it and will contribute £500 towards the cost of a new boiler or 
electric heater. 
It was approaching four weeks after the initial contact with Aviva that it located the required 
parts. The original engineer couldnt attend to complete the repair for the best part of another 
week. The alternative engineer could attend a few days earlier. However, they would need to 
diagnose the fault independently, as opposed to fitting the parts identified by the original 
engineer. Aviva said the engineer wouldnt bring any of the parts previously ordered because 
of this.
I have thought about whether the boiler would be repaired within 28 days. The original 
engineer couldnt have done this. An appointment with the replacement engineer, was 
offered toward the end of this period, but this meant diagnosing the fault again. Given the 
timeframes discussed, and that it was likely spare parts were needed, I think its likely the 
repair, using either engineer, will have taken longer than 28 days.
Aviva says the main heating system (boiler in this case) is declared BER only if it cannot 
obtain spare parts within 28 days. It says this doesnt extend to the repair being completed 
within this timeframe. It also says it wont pay any costs unless these are authorised in 
advance. 
 
I have thought about whether this is reasonable. 
The policy term in question refers to obtaining spare parts. But within the same sentence 
also refers to completing the repair within 28 days. I think that when considering this term as 
a whole, the average person would expect this to mean the repair will be completed within 
this timeframe.   
Ms B had no hot water or heating for around four weeks, at a time when it was cold. Its 
unfortunate spare parts couldnt be sourced sooner and that the original engineer became ill. 
But I understand why, after such a long period chasing for updates, being given conflicting 
information as to whether the boiler was BER and being told the engineer would not bring 
the spare parts that had taken so long to find, that Ms B chose to install a new boiler. 
Because Aviva couldnt carry out the repair in a timely manner this forced Ms B to act to 
ensure she had heating and hot water restored to her home. The company says it didnt 
authorise for this to take place. But I think its fair that it provides the £500 contribution 
toward the boiler, in line with the BER term, for the reasons I have explained.  
I also think its reasonable that Aviva provides compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Ms B experienced. The impact was significant given she and her partner 
were identified as elderly by Aviva, it was a cold time of the year and it was left to them to 
regularly chase for updates on progress. I understand the company has already paid £300 
compensation to Ms B to acknowledge this. I think this is fair.  In summary I dont think Aviva was fair in relying on the policy terms and not agreeing to pay 
£500 contribution toward the new boiler, but it was fair in providing £300 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Aviva Insurance Limited must:
pay a £500 contribution toward Ms Bs new boiler.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman