DRN-2909376
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont agree to convert her mortgage to interest 
only. Shes unhappy with the interest rate shes been charged over the years, and with how 
BoS has communicated with her.
What happened
Miss M has a repayment mortgage with BoS. In 2017, she began to experience some 
financial difficulty and asked BoS to switch her mortgage to interest only. It refused.
In 2018, I issued a decision in which I said that a temporary conversion to interest only was, 
in some cases, a form of forbearance that could be considered. And I said that, in the 
particular circumstances of this case  Miss M was asking for assistance before arrears built 
up, her property was on the market, and she needed some respite while it was sold  it 
would have been fair to allow her a temporary switch to interest only. I directed BoS to grant 
Miss M a one year interest only concession, until December 2018, to allow her to sell the 
property.
Following the expiry of that concession, BoS agreed an extension until the end of May 2019 
 but made clear that the mortgage would revert back to repayment after that date and it 
wouldnt be willing to extend the interest only concession further. If after May 2019 the 
property hadnt sold and Miss M still couldnt afford the full repayments, she would need to 
discuss other options with its collections department.
Miss M asked for the mortgage to be permanently switched over to interest only. BoS 
explained that for that to happen, she would need an acceptable repayment strategy at the 
end of the term. Miss M said that she would be able to sell part of the plot of land her 
property stood on for redevelopment, and that could be her repayment strategy.
Miss M complained about that decision. She also said she had been unfairly charged fees 
and charges, that BoS had communicated with her poorly  and that she had been turned 
down for new interest rates, meaning she had paid far more interest than she needed to 
since at least 2012.  She also said that rates she had been offered before that werent 
competitive because an independent valuation of her property to determine its loan to value 
(LTV) wasnt carried out.
BoS said that the land was part of the property subject to the mortgage. It wouldnt generally 
consider sale of the mortgaged property to be an acceptable strategy. But Miss M could ask 
BoS to agree to split the title to remove the plot of land  though this would be subject to the 
remaining part being worth enough to be good security for the existing mortgage. If this were 
to be granted, Miss M could then sell the land straightaway and use the proceeds to reduce 
her balance, which would reduce her payments  or apply again to convert to interest only 
using the land as the repayment strategy which, if it was on a separate title no longer subject 
to the mortgage, would no longer be considered sale of the mortgaged property.
BoS allowed a further interest only concession to March 2020 to allow Miss M to make that 
application. It doesnt seem Miss M has formally applied, choosing instead to complain to us 
 the mortgage remains on an interest only concession while we consider the complaint.
BoS said it didnt think it had communicated poorly with Miss M. It said its calls were handled 
appropriately. And while its staff worked across different parts of the Lloyds banking group  
and so, for example, had email addresses that appeared to be from different firms to BoS  
that was a matter of its internal arrangements and had had no impact on how her mortgage 
had been handled. It said that it was responsible for it to have looked at her income and 
expenditure to see how it could help  and to suggest savings in other expenditure where 
that would free up funds for the mortgage, which should be her priority.
Finally, BoS said that Miss M took a three year fixed rate in 2009, which expired in 2012. 
There was no evidence that Miss M had applied for a new rate since 2012.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought it was reasonable 
that BoS wouldnt permanently convert the mortgage to interest only based on sale of the 
property  but would consider an application to remove the land from the property title first. 
He found no evidence that Miss M had asked for a new interest rate or that there had been 
charges applied to her account. And he didnt think its communication had been 
inappropriate.
Miss M asked a representative to reply on her behalf. He said that given Miss M had asked 
for new rates previously, it was reasonable to conclude that she must have done in 2012  
BoS should have had a record of that, and should not have refused her a rate. Its not 
enough to rely on the absence of a record in the banks notes. There was evidence of Miss 
M contacting the bank about other matters  such as a payment holiday in 2013  so why 
wouldnt she contact it about a new rate? He disputed whether fees had been charged, and 
referred to a letter suggesting they would be. 
And he said the bank had not given fair consideration to Miss Ms request to convert her 
mortgage to interest only and should have considered making an exception to its policy. He 
also said that the bank had admitted poor customer service in 2017, and it was likely that 
had continued. Its emails had been confusing and unrelated to each other. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint comes to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are several aspects to this complaint, and Ill deal with each in turn, starting with the 
request to convert the mortgage to interest only.
I said in my previous decision, in 2018, that a temporary concession whereby the mortgage 
 temporarily  switches to interest only can be helpful in certain circumstances. I thought 
that was the case here where Miss M realised she could no longer afford the mortgage and 
was taking steps to deal with that by selling her property.
Unfortunately, she hasnt been able to sell in the intervening years. When the pandemic hit 
in 2020, the property was still on the market but Miss M made clear she was uneasy about 
allowing strangers into her home to view it  for understandable reasons.
Im not sure if the property is still on the market, but in any case since 2019 Miss Ms focus has moved from selling the whole property to selling off a piece of the land it stands on for 
development purposes.
As I say, a temporary interest only concession might be appropriate in cases of short term 
difficulty for reasons of forbearance, to reach an endpoint where the situation can be 
resolved.
In 2018, it looked like that was the case  since while Miss M recognised she could no 
longer afford the mortgage, she was trying to sell the property.
But by now Miss M has only been making interest only payments (and during a pandemic 
payment deferral no payments at all) for four years. 
Where theres a temporary interest only concession, the capital parts of the monthly 
payment arent made  but the underlying mortgage remains on capital repayment terms. 
That means that the mortgage needs to be cleared by the end of the term. And so the longer 
a concession continues, the less time there is afterwards to catch up the missed capital 
payments  and the more the monthly payments will need to increase to do so. Several 
months ago BoS estimated that when Miss M resumed paying the capital her monthly 
payments would have to be over £200 more than they were when she stopped paying the 
capital in 2017; that figure will be higher now.
BoS is right that an interest only concession cant continue indefinitely. Its sometimes 
appropriate as a short term measure to reach a point at which things can get back on track  
but the longer it goes on, the worse the long term consequences for the borrower. Miss M 
has only been paying the interest for four years now, and I agree its unlikely to be the right 
thing to allow that to continue any further. If Miss M still cant afford her mortgage on 
repayment terms, then its reasonable for BoS to want to explore other options rather than 
continuing with interest only on a temporary basis.
Miss M has asked BoS to consider making the change permanent. The advantage of that 
from her point of view is that she wont have to resume paying the capital back at any point 
during the remainder of the term  converting an unaffordable repayment mortgage into an 
affordable interest only mortgage.
The difficulty with that is that the capital still has to be repaid  and if its not repaid via the 
monthly payments, has to be paid as a lump sum at the end of the term. Its not 
unreasonable for BoS to be concerned about whether that will happen, and to want to satisfy 
itself that Miss M has a credible plan.
Miss M wants the change to go ahead. She says the repayment strategy is the sale of the 
portion of land attached to her property.
BoS is prepared to consider that. But, as it points out, that portion of land is currently part of 
Miss Ms property and subject to the mortgage. This is therefore in effect a strategy of sale of 
the mortgaged property  about which there are particular regulatory and other concerns. 
Not least that selling the property to repay the mortgage would not leave enough equity for 
Miss M to find somewhere else to live.
Thats a reasonable concern. Miss M points out that she has considerable equity in the 
property. But thats based on her estimate of the propertys value  and its not proved 
saleable at that level for four years. House prices can go down as well as up, and if Miss M 
encounters further financial problems the mortgage balance could increase.
BoS hasnt ruled out allowing Miss M to convert to interest only permanently. But its not prepared to do so where shes relying on sale of the property  the land  which is subject to 
its mortgage. However, it will consider use of the land as a repayment strategy if Miss M first 
gets its agreement to sever the land from the rest of the property and register it under a 
different title.
Doing that will mean that the land is no longer subject to the BoS mortgage, and so Miss M 
would not be relying on sale of the mortgaged property.  
This isnt an academic or administrative point. For this to happen, there would be a valuation 
of the house without the land  which would have to satisfy BoS that it was still worth enough 
to justify the mortgage. This would therefore protect both BoS and Miss M by showing that 
the mortgage remained sustainable without the land being included in the security. And, as 
BoS also pointed out, severing the land also gives Miss M more options  such as selling the 
land now rather than waiting until the end of the mortgage term. If it remained subject to the 
mortgage, on the same title, she could only sell it by repaying the whole mortgage.
BoS has explained all this to Miss M several times since 2019. Its explained the process for 
making an application to sever the land from the title and the mortgage. But Miss M hasnt 
been willing to go down that route; shes wanted the change to interest only to happen first.
Having considered everything, I think BoS has acted fairly and reasonably here. Its 
explained that the temporary interest only concession cant go on because the longer it does 
the worse the position Miss M would be in when it switches back. Its willing to consider a 
permanent switch to interest only if Miss M has a repayment strategy to repay the mortgage 
that doesnt depend on selling her home (which, without severing the land onto a new title, it 
would). And its explained the process it needs Miss M to complete  first applying to 
separate the land, then applying for interest only. I think its done what it can to assist Miss M 
resolve things in a way that best protects both the bank and her. 
It remains open to Miss M to follow this process; to apply first to split the title and then to 
switch to interest only. Unless and until Miss M has been through this process, I dont think I 
can fairly ask BoS to do anything more.
Miss M complains about fees added to her mortgage. Ive looked at the fees history for the 
mortgage and I cant see that there are any. Miss M hasnt provided any evidence otherwise. 
It may be that she confused an entry on her statement saying returned DD as being a fee 
for a bounced direct debit rather than an entry showing that the direct debit had bounced. 
Her solicitor has pointed to a letter sent to Miss M. But I dont think a letter warning  that fees 
might be charged is evidence that they in fact have been charged. Ive seen no evidence on 
the account history of fees being added, and no evidence that this is wrong. So I cant 
uphold this part of the complaint.
I also dont uphold the complaint about poor communication. I appreciate it might be 
confusing to get emails from different individuals with different email address formats. But 
Ive looked carefully at all the correspondence Miss M and BoS have provided to me, and 
Ive seen nothing in the substantive content that causes me concern. I think BoS has been 
sympathetic to Miss M and explained where it can and cant help her. I do understand that 
some contact has been around the time of sensitive anniversaries for Miss M, and thats 
unfortunate. But Im satisfied that it was necessary for BoS to contact her at those times  for 
example, because an interest only concession was coming to an end  and I dont think 
there was anything inappropriate in the content, or that the timing was driven by anything 
other than the needs of managing Miss Ms account.
Finally, I turn to the question of the interest rate on Miss Ms account. Miss M says she 
believed she wouldnt be eligible for a new rate because she was a self-certification customer and wouldnt be able to prove affordability.
BoS says theres no evidence Miss M ever asked for a new rate after the expiry of her old 
one in 2012. It says it hasnt recorded her mortgage as being self-certification and it wouldnt 
need to carry out an affordability assessment to offer her a new rate. Theres nothing in its 
records to suggest it ever had that discussion with her.
Miss Ms old rate expired in 2012. When a rate expires, a lender is required to tell a borrower 
that their monthly payments are changing. But theres no obligation beyond that to 
pro-actively offer a new rate. Some customers want a new rate and apply for one; others are 
content to remain on the SVR and dont ask for a rate. And other customers forget or dont 
get round to asking for one. But its up to the borrower to ask.
Ive looked for evidence in BoSs notes that Miss M asked for a rate, but I havent seen any 
evidence of it. And while the absence of a record is not definitive, it is persuasive  since 
theres lots of records of other contact, its difficult to see why this wouldnt be recorded if it 
happened. 
Miss M hasnt provided any evidence of having asked for a rate either. She doesnt recall 
having made a specific application and having had it turned down; rather, shes said she 
didnt apply because she didnt believe she would be successful.
And that may well be why theres no evidence in BoSs records; if Miss M thought it was 
pointless applying and didnt apply, thered be no record of an application.
I dont know where Miss M got that understanding from. But Im satisfied it wasnt right. 
There were times from 2012 onwards  such as when she asked for a payment arrangement 
in 2013 because of financial difficulty  when Miss M wouldnt have been eligible for a rate 
because of arrears. But while she was keeping up with the payments, Ive seen nothing in 
either BoSs policies or in the conduct of the mortgage to suggest that Miss M would have 
been refused a new interest rate if she asked for one. But Im not persuaded that she did. 
And therefore I cant say that BoS treated her unfairly in refusing her a rate  since it didnt 
do so.
Taking all of that into account, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. As this 
concludes her complaint, its likely BoS will now switch the mortgage back to repayment 
terms.
I would urge Miss M to think about her position and her plans. As I said in my 2018 decision, 
her mortgage is a priority debt and she needs to do what she can to pay as much as she 
can. She will need to discuss her situation with BoS to see if there is any other way forward. 
There are sources of advice and help for borrowers experiencing financial difficulty that the 
investigator can point her towards. And if Miss M still wants to apply to BoS for its consent to 
sever the land from the rest of the title so she can apply to switch to interest only, no doubt 
her solicitor will be able to advise her of the legal steps needed. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October 2021.
 
Simon PughOmbudsman