DRN-4461300
The complaint
Miss W has complained about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British
Gas) under her home care policy.
What happened
Miss W reported a leak at her home in December 2022 to British Gas, as she had a home
care policy at the relevant time. A British Gas engineer visited Miss Ws home. The engineer
said that the heat bank was damaged and needed replacing, but the part was obsolete. Miss
W wasnt happy with this diagnosis and requested a second check. This was carried out,
with the same diagnosis. Miss W said she then felt pressured into buying a new boiler from
British Gas. On installation of the new boiler, she was then told that the leak had been from
the cold-water supply. Miss W complained to British Gas however it maintained its position.
Miss W then referred her complaint to this service. The relevant investigator didnt uphold
Miss Ws complaint. He was persuaded by the evidence supplied by British Gas that the
heat bank was indeed damaged, that a replacement part was obsolete, and that Miss W
needed to replace the boiler. He noted that damage caused by the leak wasnt covered
under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Miss W was unhappy with the outcome of her complaint to this service. The case was 
therefore referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. I issued a 
provisional decision in October 2023 for this complaint and explained why I was minded to 
uphold Miss Ws complaint as follows; -
The key issue for determination is whether British Gas mis-diagnosed the problem with Miss
Ws boiler, so leading to Miss W having to purchase a new boiler. On the balance of
probabilities, I consider that British Gas didnt act fairly and reasonably and didnt provide an
adequate service in all respects. On a provisional basis I therefore uphold Miss Ws
complaint and Ill explain why.
I firstly turn to Miss Ws submissions in this matter. She said that her boiler had been
serviced in early December 2022 and the British Gas engineer had pointed out no faults.
Less than two weeks later, Miss W found a damp item of clothing on the floor of the airing
cupboard. She also noted that the carpet was damp, although not visibly damaged. She
immediately called British Gas and its engineer checked the boiler. She said he ripped
insulation off the boiler and told the customer that the water tank was leaking and that she
needed a new boiler. Miss W wasnt satisfied that the engineer had investigated the fault
thoroughly or accurately, and so another engineer was sent out but said the same thing.
Miss W said that the volume of water from the leak became excessive, and shed used
towels and nappies four times a day to contain the water whilst waiting for a solution. When
the next engineer visited, Miss W said that he dismantled the boiler and took it outside
without showing her where the leak was coming from but made a comment to say it was
coming from 'the cold'. Miss W said shed asked to be shown the leak. She felt that the leak
from the cold-water supply pipe hadnt been adequately investigated and also felt pressured
into purchasing a new boiler through British Gas and had to pay £4,600 for a replacement.
When the new boiler was installed, Miss W said this wasnt carried out correctly and the
engineer had to come back to move it. Miss W said she still wasnt getting hot water and
rang the manufacturer. Miss W said that its engineer said the boiler hadn't been set up
properly. Miss W said that the engineer also confirmed that if the leak coming from the boiler
had been hot then this would be from the heat bank, but if it was cold then this would be
coming from the cold-water supply. She was clear that the leaking water was cold. Miss W
was now seeking reimbursement for the cost of the boiler as she considered that it hadnt
been necessary for her to buy a new boiler. She said that if she hadn't been pressured, she
would have purchased a cheaper one. Miss W also wished to claim for her damaged carpet.
Miss W then supplied a copy of an e-mail from British Gas dated April 2023. This stated that
it hadnt been able to show the location of the leak on the boiler as it had been drained and
stripped down. It confirmed the opinion that the heat bank had become rotten or corroded.
As to the location of the leak, it said it was most likely from the cold-water supply pipe which
would be consistent with the volume of water and the corrosion shown on the pictures
provided. This would have leaked onto the heat bank along with other parts within the boiler
causing this to corrode and become rotten. It also explained that the replacement heat bank
and other parts were now unavailable, and this prevented a repair being completed. Miss W
said this wasnt diagnosed or even looked at by the relevant engineer. She still had the tank
in her garden, it had been filled with water and there were no visible signs of water leaking
from it. She was happy for British Gas to test it.
Miss W also disagreed that the water supply pipe had been leaking for some time, as the
boiler was only serviced in early December, shortly before the first engineers visit. Had it
been leaking she would have expected it to have been apparent. When the installation team
arrived to install the boiler in mid-January 2023, the engineer said 'he didn't think that it was
the tank.' Miss W thought that hed later reconsidered his comment and didnt want to
contradict his colleague who diagnosed the fault incorrectly and so failed in his duty of care.
In summary, Miss W said she was making this complaint as she had her home care
agreement with British Gas and had paid over £37 per month to cover the costs of repairs.
She didnt consider that the tank was rotten or corroded and had only surface rust. She felt
that as a result, she had to buy a new boiler unnecessarily and that her hallway carpet and
bath and tea towels had been damaged. She said shed also had to resort to the expense of
buying nappies to absorb the water from the leak and felt shed done everything to minimise
saturation and damage to her property.
I now turn to the British Gas submissions. It considered that its initial diagnosis had been
correct and that the relevant parts were indeed obsolete. It provided a timeline to clarify that
its engineer had attended following Miss Ws call to report a leak from the boiler. He advised
that the heat bank was rotten and leaking and he then re-attended four days later and
advised that the parts were obsolete and so the boiler would need to be replaced. An
appointment was then made for an advisor to attend in the new year and quote for a new
boiler. It said that the further engineer visit took place as Miss W was unhappy with the
diagnosis and this engineer re-confirmed that the heat bank was rotten and leaking.
British Gas said that Miss W had agreed for a new boiler to be installed. It acknowledged
that she asked to see where the boiler was leaking from prior to it being drained, but the
engineer didnt do this. As to whether the installation engineer had commented that the leak
was from the cold-water supply, it thought that if this had indeed happened, this would have
caused the heat bank, among other parts within the boiler, to become rotten over time. It
nevertheless confirmed that the diagnosis was for the boiler to be replaced due to the heat
bank being rotten and leaking. It said that the required part was obsolete regardless of
where the leak was coming from, and without this, the boiler couldnt function. It stressedthat the policy didnt include for replacement costs of a new boiler It also confirmed that
British Gas werent liable for damage to the carpet as it didnt consider it caused the leak.
Finally, British Gas said that its engineers had been recommending Miss W that she gives
consideration to replacing her boiler for several years. It said that this advice can be given
for a number of reasons such as age, efficiency or parts availability. It said that boiler
manufacturers were obliged to provide spare parts for approximately 10 years from when the
appliance ceased to be manufactured and, in this case, the appliance ceased production in
2005, so was at best 18 years old, over the average life expectancy of an appliance.
Having carefully considered the above evidence and submissions, the reasons for my
provisional decision to uphold Miss Ws complaint are as follows. The starting point for
determining cases of this nature is the relevant home care policy. In this case, the policy
makes it clear that it covers boiler repairs as well as the pipes that connect the central
heating system. It covers boiler replacement if British Gas is unable to repair it and its less
than seven years old or between seven and continuously covered. I note that the boiler in
this case was at least 18 years old and Miss W wouldnt have been eligible for a free
replacement boiler under the policy. Finally, the policy makes it clear that British Gas
wouldnt be responsible for damage caused by water leaks unless it caused the leak.
Miss W helpfully provided photographic evidence which shows that a volume of water was
leaking which had to be stemmed by towels and material and it appears that damage was
also caused to the carpet by this leak. Whilst it wasnt forwarded by British Gas with its case
file, Miss W also provided the e-mail from British Gas dated April 2023. This provided clear
written evidence that in British Gas view, the probable cause of the leak, was the cold-water
supply pipe and it makes no mention of the tank leaking, and this had been its previous
contention. I note that Miss W remains willing for the tank to be checked, however on the
basis of this e-mail it now appears unlikely that the tank itself was leaking.
I note that British Gas said that its engineers had been recommending Miss W that she
gives consideration to replacing her boiler for several years and it considered her boiler to
have been well over its life expectancy. It may well be correct that the boiler was reaching
the end of its useful lifespan, and it appears that both parties accept that there was at least
visible surface rust or corrosion which may well have led to a serious leak at some stage.
However, on the available evidence, it hadnt yet reached this point.
It now appears that the parties agree that the leak was from the cold-water supply pipe and
that the problem had been incorrectly diagnosed at the outset. Whilst the tank may have had
visible rust or corrosion, there is now no evidence that it was leaking. This suggests that the
initial check hadnt been sufficiently thorough. British Gas hadnt considered the question of
whether the cold-water supply pipe could be repaired or replaced. I note that it had
established that the tank and base assembly were obsolete, however there is no evidence
that this was the case in relation to the supply pipe to the tank.
I also note that the boiler had been serviced less than a fortnight prior to the appearance of
the leak and yet the case-notes make no reference to a corroded or leaking boiler, or indeed
to a leaking pipe. This again indicates that the tank hadnt yet reached the point when it
would need to be replaced in its entirety. Ive seen from its case notes that British Gas
recorded its service visit in early December 2022 as Serviced boiler. Breakdown booked in.
Miss W said that during this visit, no faults were pointed out by British Gas. The notes
havent been further explained by British Gas and I therefore have no reason to doubt Miss
Ws version of events.
On a provisional basis, I consider that British Gas hadnt taken sufficient care in diagnosing
the cause of the leak and this ultimately meant that Miss W had to replace her boiler soonerthat she might otherwise have done so. It also appears that British Gas had been less than
candid with Miss W once it had discovered the cause of the leak. I appreciate that its likely
that Miss W would have needed to have replaced her tank at some point soon due to its age
and damaged state, and from the photographic evidence it doesnt appear that the tank was
in the best condition. Due to the terms and conditions of the policy, Miss W wasnt covered
for the cost of a replacement boiler, and she would have had to purchase a new boiler in any
event. Nevertheless, if British Gas had acted openly, fairly, and reasonably, I consider that it
would have offered a replacement at a discounted price. Whilst I appreciate that this isnt an
exact science, I consider that a 20% discount would have been a fair and reasonable offer in
all the circumstances.
As to the service provided by British Gas, I dont consider that it had properly considered the
option of repair or replacement of the cold-water supply pipe. If the problem had been
diagnosed correctly, I consider that the problem may well have been resolved more rapidly
and possibly before the new year. I also consider that it hadnt treated Miss W in a fair and
reasonable manner in failing to show her the location of the leak despite her asking this on
more than one occasion. It also appears that it hadnt installed the new boiler correctly and
that this caused additional inconvenience. In the circumstances, due to the manner in which
it acted, and the avoidable delays which are likely to have been caused, Im satisfied on a
provisional basis that this caused distress and inconvenience to Miss W. In all the 
circumstances, Im minded to award Miss W compensation in the sum of £500.
Finally, Ive considered Miss Ws claim that British Gas caused damage to her hall carpet
and clothing to stem the leak. I do appreciate that its likely that the leak continued for longer
than necessary, as the problem wasnt correctly diagnosed at the outset. Its therefore
difficult to apportion the amount of damage which was due to the leak itself (for which British
Gas wouldnt be liable under the terms and conditions of the policy), and the amount which
was due to any avoidable delays caused by British Gas. Nevertheless, on the balance of
probabilities, Ive reached the provisional conclusion that the carpet damage would have
occurred in any event, even if it had been able to repair the leak prior to the new year. 
In my provisional decision, I asked both British Gas and Miss W if they had any further 
comments or evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas stated in its response to the provisional decision that it was disappointed with the 
findings, however it had provided all the evidence it could, and had nothing further to add.
Miss W noted the provisional decision and wished to make further comments regarding 
damage to her hallway carpet. She said that When the engineer came to investigate the 
leak, there was no visible damage caused by the leak to my carpet at that time. Miss W said 
that the consequence of the misdiagnosis by the engineer was that the water continued to 
leak onto the carpet. She felt that if thered been a correct diagnosis of the fault at that time, 
its likely that the repair would have been carried out quickly, due to the potential damage to 
her property and carpet. Miss W said that she would have expected the water supply pipe to 
be a readily available part, and if so, I would have expected the repair to have been carried 
out quickly, as I have homecare agreement to cover this. In the circumstances Miss W felt 
shed suffered consequential losses and damage to her carpet because of the misdiagnosis.
Whilst I have some sympathy for Miss Ws position regarding the hallway carpet, Ive already 
considered this issue very carefully in the provisional decision. In it, I recognised that the apportionment of damage which would have occurred, even if British Gas had acted 
promptly and diligently, and I concluded that, on the balance of probabilities, Ive reached 
the provisional conclusion that the carpet damage would have occurred in any event, even if 
it had been able to repair the leak prior to the new year. I would add that I consider that on 
the balance of probabilities, most of the water damage and any staining would have 
occurred even if a prompt repair had taken place. In addition to this, bearing in mind the 
timing of the reported incident prior to Christmas, even if the relevant part had been readily 
available, its unlikely that the repair could reasonably been carried out immediately.
Miss W also referred to a further issue which she said had caused damage during the 
installation of the new boiler. She said that when the installation engineer came to install the 
new boiler, he firstly had to dismantle the old boiler. The engineer went outside for a break 
with his colleague, and Miss W noted that the dismantled tank had been left on its side on 
the floor of the cupboard, allowing water to leak further from the tank on to my carpet. She 
said that the floor of the airing cupboard and carpet were then saturated. She believed that 
the residue of water in the tank had poured out of the tank onto the hall carpet. Miss W said 
that The engineers then rushed back into the house, removed the tank and immediately 
pulled up the carpet to stop the water saturating the carpet further. Miss W then sent 
photographs which she said confirmed this. Miss W asked that this be considered further.
Unfortunately, Im unable however to consider Miss Ws further complaint as a part of this 
final decision notice. British Gas would need to be given the opportunity to respond to any 
new element of a complaint in the first instance, and would also need to consider whether, in 
the event of a further complaint to this service, it would be prepared to waive the usual 
timescales for complaint.
I appreciate that both British Gas and Miss W will be disappointed to read the contents of 
this final decision. In all the circumstances however, Ive concluded that the provisional 
decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Ws complaint and require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to do the following in response to Miss Ws complaint:
- To reimburse Miss W for 20% of the cost of her new boiler.
- To pay Miss W £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman