DRN-3807560
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has offered to 
settle a claim they made under her home insurance policy.
Mrs S has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to her only.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mrs S got in touch with Admiral after discovering damage caused by a water leak 
under the kitchen floor. She arranged for the leak to be repaired separately.
Admiral accepted the claim and appointed various agents to handle it. Damaged 
areas were stripped out and dried. Mrs S was told the claim would be settled by cash 
payment because the contractor who had been appointed to carry out the building 
work said they werent prepared to do it.
Mrs S said she didnt want to take a cash payment and would prefer for Admiral to 
arrange for the work to be carried out. She made a complaint about this and the way 
the claim had been handled, including the time it had taken, the way she had been 
communicated with, and the way the kitchen floor had been left.
Admiral accepted the level of service provided by its agents had fallen short of 
expectations and offered Mrs S £200 compensation, in addition to £75 it had paid for 
earlier delays. It didnt agree to replace its main claim handling agent or to arrange 
for repairs, saying the behaviour onsite meant it would settle the claim by a cash 
payment equivalent to its own cost of carrying out the work.
Our investigator didnt think Admiral had acted fairly. She wasnt persuaded Admiral 
had shown there had been any unreasonable behaviour. She noted avoidable 
delays, poor communication, and the impact this had had on Mr and Mrs S. She 
recommended Admiral arrange to complete the repairs or pay cash based on the 
cost to Mr and Mrs S and pay an additional £150 compensation.
Mr S agreed with this. Admiral responded to say it disputed all of the investigators 
findings, but didnt provide any further evidence or comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by an escape of water. Admiral has accepted the claim 
and taken steps to dry the affected areas. The main part of this dispute is about how Admiral 
should settle the claim.
The relevant section of the policy says Admiral will decide how to settle the claim. And if it 
decides not to repair, it will pay the estimated cost of repair.
The policy doesnt specify that Admiral can limit settlement to its own estimated cost of 
repair  which is likely to be lower than the cost Mrs S can access on the open market. 
Generally, if it had offered to carry out repairs and Mrs S had declined  or had acted 
inappropriately  I may consider it fair for Admiral to cash settle at its own rates. Otherwise, it 
should offer to carry out the repairs or pay the cost Mrs S can access on the open market.
Admiral hasnt offered to carry out repairs. It has indicated there has been inappropriate 
behaviour and that means it shouldnt be expected to carry out repairs.
If an insurer shows evidence that a policyholder or their representatives have acted 
inappropriately, for example in a threatening or offensive manner, I may agree it would be 
reasonable for it to offer a cash settlement at its own rates as it wouldnt be fair to expect it to 
carry out work in these circumstances.
But despite our investigator asking for evidence of what Admiral has described as behaviour 
onsite, nothing has been provided. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to take this into 
account when considering how to settle the claim fairly.
Whilst the policy terms give Admiral absolute discretion about how to settle the claim, I 
would expect it to take into account the policyholders circumstances and ensure any 
settlement treats them fairly.
Mrs S has explained that her and Mr S have no knowledge of local builders and their age 
and health means they would prefer Admiral to arrange the work for them. I dont think thats 
unreasonable. Admiral should consider whether it wishes to do this. If not, it will have to pay 
cash to the value of quotes Mrs S is able to source. That will ensure shes given enough 
money to have the work carried out  which is unlikely to be the case if settlement is based 
on Admirals own rates.
I understand a schedule of work is yet to be produced by Admiral. So, whichever option it 
takes, it will need to create a schedule and share it with Mrs S. It should do this based on a 
visual inspection of the damage as it stands currently to ensure the schedule accurately 
captures all the work that needs doing to put right the damage caused by the water leak.
The way the claim was handled by Admirals agents has led to significant delays  it took 
nearly three months to strip out the damaged areas and begin the drying process. In my 
experience that usually happens within a matter of days or one or two weeks at most.
This caused unnecessary inconvenience to Mrs S, particularly as the way she was 
communicated with by some of the agents involved was very poor. She was rarely called 
back or proactively updated and seemed to do most of the chasing to get the claim moving 
herself. She shouldnt have had to do that.
As the floor had been removed during the strip out, a step at the threshold to other rooms 
was created. Despite Mr and Mrs S age and known vulnerabilities, I understand no attempt 
was made by the contractor to reduce the trip hazard. Both have had falls, which has added 
to their distress during the delays.
Some disruption to daily life is an inevitable part of the claim. But if it had been progressed 
promptly and fairly, as it should have been, I think the distress and inconvenience suffered 
by Mr and Mrs S would have been significantly reduced.Admiral has accepted the claim handling was below reasonable standards. Whilst Im 
pleased to see its recognised it let Mr and Mrs S down, Im not satisfied its offer of £275 in 
total goes far enough to put things right.
Our investigator suggested an additional £150, making £425 in total. Im satisfied this is 
reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Settle the claim as set out above.
Pay total compensation of £425. Any payments already made toward this figure can 
be deducted.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman