DRN-3699799
The complaint
Mr S complains Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided his commercial vehicle
insurance policy for fraud.
What happened
Haven contacted Mr S as a third party had said one of the cars covered by Mr Ss trade
policy had been involved in an accident with another car. Mr S initially disputed the car
belonged to him and said no one except him had access to his login details for the Motor
Insurance Database (MID).
Mr S then spoke with his business partner and discovered hed bought the car and added it
to Mr Ss MID record. However, Mr S disputed the car had been involved in the accident as
he had CCTV footage of it at the time parked outside his business partners house. He also
said it wasnt possible to have driven to the scene of the accident when looking at the
mileage the car had done when he bought it and the mileage it had now.
Haven said there was CCTV footage showing his car reversing into the third partys car.
They also said as hed initially denied owning the car and said no one else had access to his
MID they voided his policy from the date of the fraudulent information given by Mr S.
Mr S disputed this and complained. He said in addition to the CCTV footage of it outside his
business partners house, he also had an engineer inspect his car who confirmed it hadnt
been involved in a recent accident. Mr S asked Haven for the dash cam footage of the
incident. After some time, Haven sent this to Mr S. Upon reviewing the dash cam footage Mr
S pointed out differences in the car, this included different wheels, badges and number plate
surrounds. Upon reviewing the discrepancies Haven agreed the car had been cloned and
disputed the third partys claim.
Mr S complained that his policy had still been voided after Haven accepted the car was
cloned. Haven stood by their position for avoiding his policy and said that upon reviewing
how the policy had been used they didnt think theyd acted unfairly by voiding his policy.
Mr S didnt agree and referred his complaint here. I issued a provisional decision on this 
complaint on 23 August 2022 where I said:
The term Haven have relied upon to avoid Mr Ss policy says:
Fraud
1. If you or anybody insured by this policy makes a claim knowing it to
be fraudulent, false or exaggerated, provides false documents or
makes false statements in support of a claim, this insurance will be
void and all claims forfeited.
When Mr S was initially asked about the car in question, he denied owning it and said no 
one else had access to his MID. He then called up a few days later and explained that his
business partner had bought it and added it to MID.
While I agree the information Mr S gave in the initial call wasnt correct, Im not persuaded
Haven have done enough to show Mr S knowingly made false statements or was fraudulent.
I say this because Mr S called up a few days later and corrected the information hed given
after speaking with his business partner. In addition, its not fair and reasonable for an 
insurer to decline a claim for fraud if the fraudulent statement doesnt provide a benefit Mr S 
wouldnt otherwise have had. In this case even if Mr S did knowingly say it wasnt his car, to 
get out of being liable for the claim, as it turned out the car was cloned so it would never 
have been a valid claim on his policy. So, it follows Im not persuaded Haven have acted 
fairly by avoiding the policy for fraud.
Haven therefore needs to remove the avoidance for fraud and any fraud markers from any
internal and external databases.
Ive noted that during the course of the claim Haven raised some other concerns with how
the policy has been used. This isnt enough to show its fair and reasonable for Haven to
avoid the policy for fraud and as Haven havent relied on another term to avoid or cancel Mr
Ss policy Im not going to comment on these further.
Mr S responded and said in the initial call hed had he wasnt sure it was his insurer he was 
speaking with and that is why he responded how he did. He also said the voidance of his 
policy had caused issues in him getting insurance elsewhere. 
Haven responded to say Id misunderstood the reason for voidance, and it was actually 
because the car on Mr Ss policy belonged to his employee. For that reason, they didnt think 
theyd acted unfairly by voiding his policy as they said Mr S had breached the policy terms 
by putting an employees car on his trade policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to Mr Ss comments I would like to assure him that Id listened to the initial call 
and could tell he was unsure about who was calling him. In regards to finding it difficult to get 
insurance elsewhere, if the difficulties in getting insurance is due to Haven voiding his policy 
for fraud, then he will be able to ask those who have quoted to re-rate the quote taking into 
account Haven shouldnt have voided his policy for fraud. 
Haven have said that in the final response letter they explained that theyd identified that Mr 
S had insured a car which didnt belong to him. However, while I accept that in their final 
response Haven pointed out that that the car didnt belong to Mr S. In Havens letter which 
gave the reasons for the voidance they said his policy was voided due to him giving false 
statements and refers him to the fraud term in the policy, which Ive quoted above. Haven 
then said in the final response letter they maintained their position to void his policy which 
indicates it was for the same reason previously given, which was for providing fraudulent 
information. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that Haven let Mr S know they would also have 
cancelled his policy due to having an employees car on it, so I dont think that forms part of 
this complaint and therefore Im not going to comment on it further. If after removing the 
voidance for fraud, Haven then records the policy as cancelled due to Mr S having a car on it 
which belonged to his employee. And Mr S does wants to complain about Haven cancelling 
his policy due to him insuring a car which didnt belong to him, that would need to be dealt 
with separately.    My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to remove all records 
internally and externally for the voidance for fraud and remove any fraud records made 
internally or externally in relation to this claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman