DRN-3296620
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd delayed sending forms when her plan matured, 
causing her financial loss. She is also unhappy that she was required to provide certified 
copies of documentation.
Mrs M is represented by, Miss A. All references to Mrs M will include submissions from 
Miss A. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Zurich has paid Mrs M £100 for what happened. Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms 
concerns and said that Zurich didnt need to do anything further to put things right. However, 
Mrs M is seeking an increased amount of compensation. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons: 
- All parties agree that there was a delay in Mrs M receiving her maturity forms which 
resulted in her obtaining funds later than she wouldve liked. When a business has 
caused a delay I firstly need to consider if there was any financial impact. Mrs M held 
an Adaptable Investment Plan which was unit linked. That means its value was 
determined by the number and price of units held in the underlying investment fund, 
along with how the market performed. 
- Mrs M was told in December 2020 that the fund value was £125,746.31. The plan 
matured in February 2021 and in March 2021 Mrs M received £125,484.06. 
I appreciate how disappointing it was for Mrs M to receive a lower maturity value than 
she was expecting. But Ive not seen anything to suggest that Zurich was negligent in 
how it managed the fund and so I cant hold it responsible for the decrease in value 
of the fund. Unfortunately, with plans such as this, values can fluctuate quite rapidly 
in a short space of time. Markets can be volatile and unpredictable; I think that was 
most likely the reason, rather than negligence, to explain the fall in value. 
- Zurich wrote to Mrs M on 12 February 2021, but it didnt include the maturity forms in 
its letter. Mrs M called Zurich on 16 February 2021 to request these and says two 
sets of forms were sent on 16 and 18 February 2021. 
I think Zurich couldve provided the forms much sooner than it did, and I appreciate 
the inconvenience it wouldve caused Mrs M when chasing this up. Mrs M has also 
said this caused her anxiety and stress, which I understand. But I also think Zurichs 
offer of £100 compensation fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience its delays 
caused, given that Mrs M received the forms promptly following her request. 
- Mrs M is unhappy that she was required to provide certified copies of documentation 
to verify her identity and the account she wanted the funds to go into. I understand it 
wouldve been frustrating to have the added requirement to verify such documents. 
But financial institutions must comply with various regulatory and legal duties such as 
Anti-Money Laundering Regulations. It will be for a business to decide how best to 
meet these regulations. Sometimes this can lead to delays and the business cant 
always give specific reasons why this is. I cant say Zurich were unreasonable to ask 
Mrs M to certify documents and it follows that I dont think its requirement was unfair. 
- Mrs M complained to Zurich on 16 February 2021 and received its reply on 
12 April 2021. During this time, I can see Zurich sent an acknowledgement for the 
complaint. I understand Mrs M said she didnt receive this until much later and 
Zurichs investigation was not as quick as Mrs M wouldve liked. But on balance, 
I think it replied to Mrs M regarding her concerns within a reasonable amount of time. 
- Nonetheless, I accept Zurich couldve provided Mrs Ms maturity forms much sooner 
than it did. Zurich has already paid Mrs M £100 compensation and I think this is fair 
and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience its delay caused. 
My final decision
Zurich Assurance Ltd has already paid £100 to settle the complaint and I think the offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman