DRN-2947782
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premium,
they paid for their travel insurance policy in full.
All reference to Great Lakes includes its agents.
What happened
 Mr and Mrs M bought a single trip, basic, travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great
Lakes (the policy). They also purchased extended travel disruption cover and paid an
additional premium for that cover.
The policy was taken out to cover a trip abroad which had been booked for one week
commencing 11 June 2020. Mr and Mrs M paid a total of £61.14 for the policy which
included insurance premium tax (charged at 20%) and a discount of £6.55.
Their trip abroad was cancelled on 6 May 2020 and Mr and Mrs M contacted Great Lakes
shortly thereafter to cancel the policy.
Great Lakes ultimately offered them a pro rata voucher refund - valid for 36 months - that
they could use against a new policy in the sum of £11.18. But the offer of a pro-rata refund
didnt extend to the additional premium Mr and Mrs M paid for travel disruption cover.
Mr and Mrs M didnt think that was fair so complained to our Service.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She set out the details of the
relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The
investigator also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the
insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not
returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to
the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make
it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy
started on 5 March 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19.
And having considered everything she partially upheld. She recommended Great Lakes pay
a pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic single trip insurance policy  together
with a pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional travel disruption extension cover -
from the date their holiday was cancelled (by way of voucher).
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigator and wanted a cash refund of the premium
theyd paid for the policy. Great Lakes asked for proof that the holiday had been cancelled
and after it had been sent this, it calculated that it would pay a voucher to Mr and Mrs M in
the sum of £21.55 (representing 44 unused days).
This complaint was passed to me to decide to look at everything afresh to decide and I 
issued my provisional decision in July 2021. I explained why I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I proposed directing Great Lakes to issue a voucher to Mr 
and Mrs M in the sum of £24.84 to represent a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for 
the policy, rather than the amount of £21.55 Great Lakes calculated in response to our 
investigators view.
Great Lakes accepted my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M didnt agree and raised 
several points in reply.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes Mr and Mrs Ms response to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I havent changed my thoughts on this complaint. I partially uphold Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint and direct Great Lakes to issue a voucher to them in the sum of £24.84 to 
represent a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for the policy. Ill explain why.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
Are Mr and Mrs M entitled to a refund of the premium paid for the policy?
The terms and conditions of the policy set out Mr and Mrs Ms cancellation rights under the
contract. These say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so theres no requirement
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Great Lakes to offer a full refund,
as Mr and Mrs M have requested.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more than
14 days after payment of the premium, no premium will be refunded except in exceptional
circumstances. But I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to exercise the discretion
it has, under the terms of the policy, in the circumstances of this case to refund the premium
Mr and Mrs M paid for the policy. Im not persuaded that the Covid-19 global pandemic
amounts to exceptional circumstances akin to two examples in the policy term referred to
above. And I dont think the impact of the global pandemic, which affected many of Great
Lakes policyholders, is one which this term is intended to cover.
But Im conscious that Mr and Mrs Ms need for this single trip insurance policy changed due
to circumstances outside of their control; because their holiday had been cancelled as a
result of Covid-19. So, Ive considered whether it would still be fair and reasonable to ask
Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the policy terms in the circumstances of this
case  particularly given the exceptional, extraordinary and unexpected circumstances
surrounding the pandemic.I know Mr and Mrs M say that Great Lakes shouldve offered a full monetary refund of the
policy premium. But Covid-19  and its global impact - couldnt have been anticipated and
foreseen. And whilst it was outside of the control of Mr and Mrs M, it was also outside of
Great Lakes control.
Further, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Ms contract with Great Lakes to
be performed  or for them to have benefitted from the policy. Thats because Mr and Mrs M
werent just insured for the dates of travel. Cover started on 5 March 2020. And, subject to
the remaining terms of the policy, Im satisfied that the price Great Lakes charged Mr and
Mrs M for the policy also covered them from the start of the policy should they have needed
to cancel their holiday for any number of the insured events under the policy.
So, Great Lakes had assumed the risk of Mr and Mrs M making such a claim from the date
the policy started until the holiday was cancelled on 6 May 2020. And, as also explained by
our investigator, its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to
bear the risk concerned  for however short amount of time  the premium paid is not
returnable. So, Im not persuaded that its unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums
relating to the risk it covered up until the point the holiday was cancelled.
But once the holiday was cancelled due to the pandemic, Great Lakes was no longer
carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any of the other insured reasons set out in
the policy, before the start of trip. And Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to
Mr and Mrs Ms holiday being cancelled; the cost of the holiday was refunded by a third
party.
Also, just as importantly, as the holiday was no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was no
longer carrying the risk of any claim being made while Mr and Mrs M were travelling abroad.
So, in light of this, and based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding
the Covid-19 pandemic, Im persuaded its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide
Mr and Mrs M with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for the policy from the date the
holiday was cancelled; 6 May 2020.
The offer of a voucher
When considering whether Great Lakes shouldve offered a pro-rata monetary refund of the
premium or by way of voucher, Ive considered what would be fair and reasonable to both
parties.
Mr and Mrs M paid a premium in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid 
claim occurring under the policy during the period of cover. Offering a refund by way of a 
voucher means the risk Great Lakes had agreed to accept is simply moved to a future date. 
And I think its reasonable for Great Lakes to offer a voucher as an alternative to a monetary 
refund in such circumstances - so long as the terms of the voucher offered are fair and 
reasonable.
I dont think the terms of the voucher in this case are overly restrictive. The voucher is valid
for 36 months and can also be used to buy a single trip or annual, multi-trip, travel insurance
policy. I know Mr and Mrs M say they dont want to take out a policy with Great Lakes again.
And although thats a personal choice for them, they could still make use of the voucher
themselves. But if they choose not to, the voucher is also fully transferrable. So, if it isnt
used by Mr and Mrs M, it can be used by someone else  if they chose to gift the voucher to
a friend or family member, for example.So, in the circumstances of this particular case, Im not persuaded Great Lakes should pay a
pro-rata monetary refund to Mr and Mrs M instead of a voucher.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs M say about a family 
member having received a full refund from their insurance company. However, Ive 
considered whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The vouchers value
When calculating the policy premium Great Lakes doesnt distinguish between pre-travel
cancellation and post-departure cover. Rather, the premium charged is split equally across
the whole period of cover. As our investigator explained, an insurer is entitled to decide the
way in which it calculates policy premiums, considering factors such as its previous claims
experience, its assessment of the likelihood of claims arising and its own commercial
interests. Thats if it treats each customer fairly when doing so.
Given Great Lakes explanation, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the
prevalence of risk across the life of its annual multi-trip travel insurance policies. Im also
persuaded that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly, or any differently, to other
customers in similar circumstances by calculating the premium in this way.
The value of the voucher offered to Mr and Mrs M has been calculated considering their
unused period of standard travel insurance cover. The policy covered Mr and Mrs M for 106
days from the date the policy started to the date they were due to fly back to the UK  and
the premium they paid for the policy was representative of the time cover was in place for.
Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policy from the date Mr and Mrs Ms
holiday was cancelled on 6 May 2020.
I think this pro-rata refund should also include the premium Mr and Mrs M paid for their
optional travel disruption extension cover. Travel disruption extension cover includes
extended cancellation benefits as well as extended curtailment, travel delay and enforced
stay benefits. But Great Lakes was no longer covering the risk of a claim under the optional
travel disruption extension cover from the date the holiday was cancelled.
Ive taken into account Great Lakes reasons for not including the premiums paid for the
additional cover options within its refund calculations. Great Lakes says it can be difficult to
tell if any additional cover options have been used. However, Mr and Mrs M didnt travel on
their planned holiday and theres no suggestion any claim was made under the additional
cover options attached to their single trip insurance policy.
Great Lakes has also mentioned situations where consumers purchase additional cover
options and subsequently cancel these if they dont need to claim  thus getting extra cover
at no or a significantly reduced cost. Im satisfied this isnt the case here, as Mr and Mrs Ms
holiday was cancelled due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Finally, Great Lakes has said the price of the additional cover options have been calculated
on the assumption that the cover remains in place for the full length of the policy. However,
the same seems to be true of the price for the basic single trip insurance policy, so I dont
think there are any reasonable grounds for treating the additional cover options which Mr
and Mrs M paid for any differently.
So, Im satisfied Great Lakes should recalculate the value of Mr and Mrs Ms voucher from
that date to 18 June 2020 (44 days in total) to include the premium they paid for the travel
disruption add on.Mr and Mrs M were given a discount at the point of sale. Ive seen the refund calculation
formula used by Great Lakes in response to the view, but I dont agree this leads to a fair
and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on everything provided to me, in simple terms, Great Lakes should calculate the
refund by dividing the actual price paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days)
multiplied by days not on risk.
Putting things right
Within 28 days from our Service confirming to Great Lakes that Mr and Mrs M accept my
final decision, I direct Great Lakes calculate the value of Mr and Mrs Ms voucher on the 
following basis;
-A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the basic single trip insurance policy from
the date their holiday was cancelled;
-A pro-rata refund of the premium paid for the optional travel disruption extension from
the date their holiday was cancelled.
As Ive outlined above Great Lakes should calculate the refund by dividing the actual price
paid for the policy by the total cover length (in days) multiplied by days not on risk.
Alternatively, if Great Lakes has already issued Mr and Mrs M a voucher to the value of
£11.14 it initially offered after they first complained to Great Lakes, I direct it to issue them 
with a further voucher for the difference between the value of that voucher and the 
recalculated amount (which I understand will be approximately £24.84).
  
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. And I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman