DRN-4227214
The complaint
Mr D and Mr D complain that Saga Services Limited (Saga) mis-sold a home insurance 
policy and that an exclusion clause, wasnt made clear. 
What happened
Mr D and Mr Ds property had a leak. They made a claim against their home insurance 
policy for the damage caused. Saga considered the claim and declined it due to the policy 
endorsement, which was mentioned at the point of sale. The endorsement said that there 
was no cover for escape of water claims. 
Mr D and Mr D said that they firmly believed that they were covered for an escape of water. 
And that Saga by declining the claim (and during the sale process) had breached a number 
of regulatory requirements. So, they raised a complaint. 
In its final response, Saga maintained its position that there was no cover for any escape of 
water claims. It also said that there were some administrative errors made and for those 
errors, offered compensation of £250 for the trouble and upset caused. Mr D and Mr D were 
given their referral rights and referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said Saga did enough to make Mr D and Mr D, reasonably aware that their policy was 
subject to an exclusion. The exclusion itself was clearly worded in the accompanying 
insurance documents. And the compensation paid for the administrative errors was fair. So, 
there wasnt anything further that he could reasonably ask Saga to do. 
Saga accepted the view, Mr D and Mr D did not. They said the endorsement wasnt clear 
and was ambiguous. They said that the sales phone call with Saga, heavily influenced their 
decision to buy the policy, as it had been verbally agreed with Saga that the property would 
be covered under the escape of water peril. They said that during the call the advisor was 
told that the property would be unoccupied and that they required escape of water cover. 
And at no time did the advisor state that Saga was unable to provide a policy that didnt meet 
their requirements. They believed that there were several regulatory requirements that had 
been breached. So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, which I understand is likely to be a disappointment to Mr D and Mr D. But I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have reviewed all the comments and evidence presented by both parties. And in particular 
the policy terms, conditions, and endorsements. I have also considered the sales calls that 
were provided. 
Having reviewed the evidence, I think the main issue of this complaint is whether Saga mis-
sold the policy during its sale. And whether Saga provided enough information for Mr D and 
Mr D to make an informed choice. 
Mr D and Mr D purchased the policy over the phone. I have listened to both sales call 
recordings. I think the second sales call is the most relevant, as the first effectively takes Mr 
D through several security questions, before passing him through to the second call. 
I have summarised the second call as below:
Personal details were confirmed.
Date of when the insurance policy was to start was confirmed.
Agent clarifies that the insurance was for a property that wasnt Mr D and Mr Ds 
main residence. 
Agent states that she doesnt have any details of the previous policy and she will be 
treating this policy as a new quotation. As Mr D had said that he wanted the same 
terms as the previous policy of insurance.
Agent again confirms that the property isnt a main residence.
Agent then goes through the construction of the property.
Agent confirms that the property will be unoccupied for more than 60 days.
Questions were asked about the date when the property became unoccupied.
Mr D said that property will be checked weekly by a family member.
Legal cover was explained, and Mr D wanted that included.
Agent explained that home emergency and accidental damage wouldnt be included 
as the property was unoccupied.
Agent advises that cover is limited to FLEA (fire, smoke, lightening and aircraft 
impact) unless there is a specific condition authorised by the underwriter. And she 
wouldnt be able to find this out until the quote was generated. 
Agent goes through contents cover.
The price of the cover is given.
Agent goes through the excesses that are payable on a claim and does mention 
escape of water at £400. 
Agent then goes through the underwriters endorsement. She reads out the 
endorsement and stipulates that cover will be for FLEA only.
Agent then tells Mr D that: a full explanation of the cover will be provided to you. In 
the documents that would be sent.
Agent goes through the cancellation information.
Call ends. 
From the call recording, I think that Saga provided clear, fair, not misleading and 
unambiguous information. It confirmed with Mr D and Mr D that the property was unoccupied 
and advised that the cover would be limited to FLEA on at least two occasions, during the 
call. The agent also read out in full, the endorsement to the policy. And advised that a full 
explanation of the cover will be provided to Mr D and Mr D, as well as going through the 
cancellation procedure, before the call ends. I have reviewed the policy schedule and I can see that it clearly states that Mr D and Mr D 
should read the policy booklet to ensure that the cover meets their needs. So, this would 
have been what we call a non-advised sale, which means that Saga would not be advising 
or recommending that they buy the policy. And the onus is on Mr D and Mr D to ensure that 
the policy was suitable for their needs. 
The endorsement itself is not an unusual or uncommon exclusion. And is one that is usually 
applied to policies, where properties are unoccupied. Sagas responsibility here wouldve 
been to highlight any significant or unusual terms to Mr D and Mr D. But as I dont think the 
endorsement was unusual or significant, I dont think Saga did anything wrong here.
Additionally, I wouldve expected that if Mr D and Mr D were unsure about any aspect of the 
policy, for them to have, either raised this with the agent during the sales call, or have 
contacted Saga for clarification. But I havent been provided with any evidence that they did 
this. I understand that Mr D and Mr D said that they raised the issue of whether an escape of 
water was covered. But this wasnt mentioned at all, during the sales call. 
I accept that the agent mentioned excesses that were payable in the event of a claim. And 
one of those excesses that she mentioned related to an escape of water claim. But she then 
mentioned the endorsement on the policy. She also read out the endorsement in full. 
Consequently, I cant agree that this was misleading, given that the agent outlined and read 
in full, the endorsement attached to the policy. In addition, I note that at no point during the 
call did the agent mention that an escape of water was actually covered. 
Im aware that Mr D and Mr D were sent insurance documents following the call. Again, I 
havent been provided with any evidence to show that they didnt understand that cover was 
only limited to FLEA. And I think this wouldve been something that wouldve been raised, if 
there was anything they didnt comprehend. 
Ive next considered the insurance documents and having reviewed them I can see that they 
included the relevant information, about the endorsement. And I cant agree that it was 
ambiguous or unclear. So, Ill explain why.
The covering letter states: Please take a look at the Schedule and policy book - they have 
all the details about your cover. There are also some particular endorsements in the 
insurance statement that you need to check. 
Also, page two of the statement of insurance provides the relevant endorsement. Further, in 
the insurance product information document (IPID), it also states: Unless agreed by us, 
cover for theft, escape of water, malicious damage or vandalism is excluded if your home is 
unoccupied for more than 60 days in a row.
I think the insurance documents are clear and again clarified that a claim for escape of water 
was not covered, where the property is unoccupied for 60 days or more. And as Mr D and Mr 
D explained that the property wouldnt be occupied, then I think its clear that an escape of 
water claim wouldnt be covered. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Saga misled Mr D and Mr D, either during the 
sales call or from the insurance documents that it sent. Im satisfied that it gave Mr D and Mr 
D enough information for them to make an informed decision, as well as highlighting the 
endorsement included in the policy. Consequently, although I understand the disappointment 
this decision is likely to bring to Mr D and Mr D, I cant reasonably ask Saga to do anything 
more here. My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman