DRN-4300286
The complaint
Mr C has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined to pay for an 
MRI scan which he says was an emergency.
What happened
Mr C has a travel insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. 
He went abroad but unfortunately injured himself whilst skiing. He sought medical advice 
and attention and called UKI to make a claim. 
Mr C had an MRI scan but UKI said it wouldnt cover the cost of this as it wasnt deemed to 
be emergency medical treatment. Mr C disagreed and complained. He said the MRI was 
necessary to know the extent of the injury and to decide whether he needed to curtail his trip 
and return to the UK. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr C referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think UKI had unfairly rejected the claim. 
He said there was insufficient evidence to suggest that the MRI was needed on an 
emergency basis and so he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr C disagreed and in summary, has said the letter from the hospital advised him to seek a 
specialist opinion and an MRI as soon as possible and that is what he did. He has 
repeatedly explained that it was necessary to have an MRI to know the extent of any 
damage and also to decide whether he was fit to fly home. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms confirm emergency medical costs are covered whilst on a trip.
So the crux of this complaint relates to whether the MRI was an emergency medical cost and 
this is what I will focus on in my decision.
The available medical report has been translated and this confirms Mr C should have 
a check-up in a timely manner and planning of an MRI examination. I dont think 
this report suggests that an MRI is required immediately, it just says it needs to be 
planned. 
The other available evidence includes the phone calls between Mr C and UKI in 
which he was told that an MRI probably wouldnt be covered and Mr C confirmed he 
understood this advice. An insurer should provide appropriate advice and guidance 
and Im satisfied UKI did this. In addition, Mr C said he would have the MRI anyway. 
So Im not satisfied Mr C would have done anything differently had UKI categorically 
told him the costs of the MRI scan would definitely not be covered. 
Mr C has said the MRI was required to know the extent of the injury, whether he was 
fit to fly and also for the consultant he saw on his return to the UK. I havent seen any 
medical evidence which suggests that the MRI was needed as an emergency or that 
it was required in order for Mr C to obtain a fit to fly certificate. To curtail the trip or 
obtain a fit to fly, Mr C needed a medical report  there is no evidence to show that 
he needed an MRI scan. In relation to the consultant in the UK, an MRI could have 
been arranged at any time when he returned so I dont think it needed to be done 
abroad to take to the consultant in the UK. 
The policy is clear that only emergency medical treatment is covered and it is UKIs 
medical adviser who would review the evidence to decide whether treatment was 
necessary or not. UKI advised Mr C the MRI was unlikely to be covered so I dont 
think it has treated him unfairly or declined to pay the cost of the MRI unreasonably. 
So I wont be asking UKI to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman