DRN-3205836
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) continued charging her 
excessive amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Miss B complained to Santander that she was suffering from extreme financial hardship due 
to charges applied to her account. Santander says it assisted Miss B by changing her 
account to a choice account and that all charges were applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. And as Miss B was dis-satisfied she referred the complaint to our 
service.
Miss Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Miss B was experiencing financial difficulty from 20 October 2016 
and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards 
until 2 December 2020. Santander disagreed, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
Your text here
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Santander acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees on Miss Bs 
overdraft from 20 October 2016. By this point, it ought to have been clear that Miss B was in 
no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Miss B had already notified Santander of a drop in income and her financial 
difficulties and she hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of 
time. Santanders own literature suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency 
borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So I think that Miss Bs overdraft usage 
should have prompted Santander to have realised that Miss B wasnt using her overdraft as 
intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. As Santander didnt 
react to Miss Bs overdraft usage and instead continued charging, I think it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably. 
Miss B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that 
Santander didnt treat Miss B fairly and she lost out because of what Santander did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what Santander has said about the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, the terms and conditions of Miss Bs account, its process and 
any actions it may have taken. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I remain satisfied 
that it wasnt fair to continue adding charges to Miss Bs account from 20 October 2016 to 2 
December 2020.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Bs complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from 20 October 2016 to 2 December 2020 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Miss B to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan, Miss B is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander 
to reach a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative 
information on Miss Bs credit file, Santander should reflect what would have 
been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the 
overdraft from 20 October 2016 to 2 December 2020. Santander can also reduce 
overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it considers it appropriate to do so, as 
long as doing so wouldnt leave Miss B over their limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Miss Bs credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Miss Bs overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
Your text hereMy final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint. Santander UK Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman