DRN-3501256
The complaint
Mr L complains about Automobile Association Insurance Services Limiteds (AA) 
administration and the cancellation fees raised under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr Ls car windscreen was damaged by a stone. He made a claim to AA for 
this to be repaired. At the end of January, the policy for his other car renewed, which was 
also administered by AA. After the renewal Mr L was informed an additional premium had 
been applied, because his insurer had become aware of the windscreen claim. He says AA 
was aware of this claim when he reported it early in January. 
Mr L says AAs processes arent coordinated. If they were his insurer wouldve been aware 
of the claim prior to the renewal. Mr L cancelled his policy because of poor administration on 
AAs part. Because of this he doesnt think its fair that he has to pay its cancellation fees. 
AA says the renewal documentation it sent to Mr L explained he should review the 
information to ensure the details were correct. The documents asked if he had suffered any 
loss, regardless of blame, and that this should be declared. It says Mr L didnt update his 
policy with the claim he had made for windscreen damage. So, the policy renewed based on 
the information in the renewal documents. 
AA says Mr Ls insurer became aware of the claim in February 2020. To continue to provide 
cover it needed to apply an additional premium. When Mr L confirmed he wanted to cancel, 
the relevant fees and charges were applied. 
Mr L thought this was unfair and referred his complaint to our service. Our Investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He says the information sent to Mr L advised him he must declare the 
windscreen claim. Because he didnt an additional premium was raised after the policy 
renewed. He thought AA had applied its charges correctly when Mr L cancelled.
Mr L still felt this outcome was unfair and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him, but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
For clarity AA was responsible for the sale of the policy and for its administration. It isnt Mr 
Ls insurer. Hes raised concerns that his windscreen claim impacted on his premiums. Mr L 
will need to contact his insurer to pursue a complaint about how his premium was calculated. 
This isnt something I can consider here in his complaint about AA.   
When Mr L claimed to AA, he thought that because the insurance policies for both his cars 
were arranged and administered through AA, that it should be aware of any claims he had 
made. So, when his policy renewed, he thought any considerations relevant to his new 
premium should already be factored in. 
I have read Mr Ls renewal documentation sent toward the end of January 2020 to 
understand the information he was given. It says:
Final checks - We recommend that you check one last time that you have the cover you 
need and that all the information we hold about you and your cover is correct. If the details 
we hold are incorrect or missing, or if during the next 12 months you need to make changes 
to your policy, please let us know as soon as possible as failure to do so may result in your 
insurance being invalidated/cancelled or in your claims being rejected or not fully paid..
And:
Have you or any person who will drive been involved in any accident or suffered any loss 
(whether to blame or not) involving a motor vehicle - whether or not the subject of an 
insurance claim - in the last five years?
The document confirms no claims had been declared for either Mr L or the named driver. 
The policy terms and conditions explain that Mr Ls no claims discount wont be affected in 
relation to a windscreen repair or replacement, but it doesnt say this neednt be declared as 
a claim. I understand why he felt frustrated and decided to cancel. But I dont think AA 
behaved unreasonably given the information set out in the renewal documents.  
I have also thought about Mr Ls concerns regarding AAs charges following his cancellation. 
Ive read the policy terms to understand what is expected here. The terms under the 
General Conditions section say:
3. Cancellation outside 14 days
Beyond 14 days of receipt of Your policy documentation or the date You enter into the 
contract, (whichever is later) You may cancel this insurance at any time. Your Insurer will 
refund a percentage of the premium calculated on a pro rata basis equivalent to the period of 
cover left unused. The charge for this period of cover will always be a minimum of £15. No 
refund of premium will be allowed if a claim has or is being made against this policy prior to 
such cancellation during the current period of insurance. AAIS will charge a cancellation fee* 
of £30 and also retain its arrangement fee* of £28.
It's clear from these terms that the charges applied by AA are correct.
Although I understand Mr L holds strong views about his reason for cancelling, I dont think 
AA behaved unreasonably in relying on its policy terms and applying the charges it did. So, I 
cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 Mike Waldron
Ombudsman