DRN-4042734
The complaint
Mrs J complains Santander UK Plc are keeping some of her money after closing her 
accounts. She wants the money back and to know where it is.
What happened
Mrs J held current accounts with Santander, one of which was a basic account. She had 
been their customer for a long time. In March 2022 Santander blocked her accounts to carry 
out a review. During this time, they allowed Mrs J to withdraw £500.
Prior to the account being blocked Mrs J cashed several cheques into her account over a 
few months. She says a close family friend asked her to pay the cheques into her account as 
they were having issues with their bank. Mrs J says she sent the majority of those funds to 
another account their friend held but would retain a sum for the inconvenience she was 
caused. She says she didnt question the arrangement and didnt think she had done 
anything wrong. She has no documentation or evidence to support the arrangement and is 
having difficulty contacting her friend who is now in another country.
Mrs J also says Santander called her after they allowed her to withdraw the £500. They 
asked her about a payment she wanted to make to her friend following the deposit of 
another cheque. She says they wanted to make sure she wasnt being scammed and after 
she confirmed she wasnt, they let the payment go through and then re-blocked her account.
Santander concluded their review and decided to close Mrs Js accounts immediately. Mrs J 
feels she is entitled to the balance that was left in her accounts as it represents the sum of 
money her friend allowed her to keep.
Our investigator decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. They concluded:
Santander were entitled to block Mrs Js accounts while they carried out a review and 
this isnt uncommon. They didnt need to give Mrs J a reason for their actions.
Santander also have a responsibility to establish their customers entitlement to funds 
in their account. In this regard they asked Mrs J about the cheques paid into her 
account. Mrs J couldnt provide any proof as to why she was entitled to the money 
that remained in her account from the cheques. So, Santander were able to not allow 
her to have the funds.
Santander had closed Mrs Js accounts in line with their terms and conditions.
Mrs J wanted a call back from the team reviewing her accounts. But it was clear that 
all the information she provided was available to the team for them to consider when 
reaching their decision.
Mrs J disagreed with the outcome our investigator reached. She has asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman. As she responded before the deadline and had no further 
information to provide, I am now ready to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing 
accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account 
is opened.
To comply with their responsibilities Santander will monitor accounts and carry out specific 
or occasional checks. Its common industry practice for firms to restrict access to an account 
to conduct a review on a customer and/or the activity on an account, which is what 
Santander did here.
Santander arent obliged to reveal their full reason(s) for reviewing Mrs Js accounts. But I 
have considered the basis of their review, and it was legitimate and in line with their legal 
and regulatory obligations. Im further satisfied their basis for withholding funds was 
understandable given they needed to decide whether to release the funds to Mrs J or not.
Part of Santanders responsibilities is to ensure their customer is entitled to the funds in their 
account. Im satisfied that Santander were able to reasonably conclude Mrs J hadnt 
established she was entitled to the remaining funds, which represented the remainder of 
what was cashed by cheque into her account for her friend. 
Mrs J explained why she allowed someone else to pass money through her account by 
cheque, but I dont find what she has said plausible. The amount left over from the cheques 
which she says was for her to keep appears to be disproportionately large for just doing a 
favour.
I also find difficulty with the arrangement she has described. If her friend had problems with 
their bank, why would they need to use her account when they had another account they 
could use to cash the cheques  the same account Mrs J sent the funds on to? There 
doesnt appear to have been any need for Mrs Js involvement. I dont find her reason that 
she wouldnt ask questions because she considered this person as part of her family and 
community is reasonable when considering this apparent contradiction. So, I am not going to 
direct Santander to pay her the money they held in her account. Nor do I require them to tell 
her what they have or will do with that money.
I also dont find the relevant team or persons who made the decision to not release the 
remaining funds back to her needed to speak to her on the phone. They had all the 
information they needed, and Mrs J was given ample opportunity to explain the cheques and 
why she felt entitled to the remaining funds. I dont find it was necessary for them to engage 
in a telephone conversation with Mrs J considering the strong basis for their decision.
I also find that Santander were able to close Mrs Js accounts. They have the commercial 
discretion to close customer accounts, and I find their decision to close the accounts 
immediately was in line with their terms and conditions.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Liam KingOmbudsman