DRN-3412153
The complaint
Mr W complains about how John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) handled his claim 
under Section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
On 19 March 2020, Mr W purchased flight tickets direct with an airline, who Ill refer to as E, 
to travel from New Zealand to London. He paid a total of £2,357.92 using his JLFS credit 
card. The flights were due to leave New Zealand on 24 April 2020, arriving in London on 
25 April 2020. 
A few days after Mr W made the booking, E cancelled the flights due to the COVID-19 
pandemic. Mr W tried to get a full refund from E, but they werent prepared to provide this 
without Mr W incurring charges. They did offer Mr W credit vouchers for the flights, but they 
couldnt advise Mr W on the value of the vouchers or when flights to and from New Zealand 
would resume. 
Because of Es reluctance to provide a full refund, Mr W got in touch with JLFS at the end of 
March 2020 to raise a S75 claim for the total amount. JLFS responded in early April 2020 to 
acknowledge receipt of Mr Ws claim and to confirm they couldnt give a timeframe for when 
the claim would be considered. Mr W replied to say that he didnt feel he should be 
penalised for delays from JLFS and wanted the payment to be put in dispute without interest 
being charged while the claim was considered. There were several conversations between 
Mr W and JLFS during the remainder of April 2020, where JLFS confirmed the payment 
couldnt be marked as in dispute until the case was looked into  and interest would continue 
to be charged unless the required payment was made on time. 
Mr W raised his first complaint at this point. JLFS agreed to waive the interest on the 
disputed amount until the dispute had been investigated. They also explained to Mr W that 
the credit card could continue to be used as long as the minimum payment was made each 
month. Mr W replied to JLFS to say that he would only be making payment for the 
undisputed amount on the card.
In mid-May 2020 Mr W contacted JLFS again to say hed been charged interest on his credit 
card statement. A couple of days later he messaged to say that a transaction for his car 
insurance had been declined. JLFS replied the following day to confirm the interest had been 
credited back to his account as agreed  at this time they also said the transaction had been 
declined because Mr W hadnt made the required payment to his account as hed been 
advised to in early April. Mr W said he had made the payment for the undisputed amount on 
his account, as hed confirmed he would do. His complaint was re-opened by JLFS.
In early June 2020 JLFS messaged Mr W to explain that it is his responsibility to ensure 
correct payments are made to the account while the disputed transaction is being 
investigated. They again confirmed the interest had been refunded and would show on 
Mr Ws next statement. They also asked for additional evidence to help with Mr Ws claim, 
which he provided promptly.
For the next two months, Mr W messaged JLFS each time he received his statement to 
confirm interest had been charged. Each time, JLFS responded and credited the interest 
back. Mr W was also advised to call JLFS and discuss his concerns.
He raised a further complaint towards the end of July 2020. He said he was unhappy that his 
account was with collections and a block had been placed on the card. He said he was told 
he didnt need to make a payment on the amount that was being disputed. JLFS advised he 
still needed to make the payments on his account, but Mr W said that he wouldnt because 
JLFS were taking too long to look at the dispute. JLFS reiterated the amount that needed to 
be paid to remove the block, and that the minimum payment would be required each month 
while the amount was still in dispute. They explained that Mr Ws credit file could be affected 
if he didnt make the required payment. JLFS did apologise to Mr W that they couldnt give a 
timeframe for when the dispute would be considered and offered Mr W £100 for the service 
received so far. Mr W said that he would be willing to discuss any compensation once the 
dispute had been finalised. 
In early August 2020 Mr W messaged JLFS to confirm he had made the required payment of 
£135.27 on his account. He sent more messages to JLFS throughout August, none of which 
were acknowledged.
On 1 September 2020 JLFS credited Mr Ws account with the full amount of £2,357.92. They 
were out of time to raise a chargeback due to their backlogs. Mr W was satisfied with the 
refund but raised a further complaint about the service hed received from JLFS in general. 
He was also unhappy as hed been told his payment of £135.27 would be returned to him. 
He wanted all unwarranted charges returned, along with any impact on his credit rating to be 
amended. He also wanted compensation. JLFS sent Mr W their final response in November 
2020. They explained that a minimum payment had to be made while an amount was in 
dispute. They accepted Mr W had been given misinformation by one of their call handlers in 
relation to the refund of £135.27 and offered Mr W £109 compensation.
Mr W declined this and brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator said that JLFS 
had made the decision to credit Mr W with the full amount of £2,357.92 when they realised 
theyd started to look at his dispute outside of the chargeback process time limits. As Mr W 
had received a full refund our investigator didnt comment on this further. He said JLFS had 
told Mr W he needed to continue to make the minimum payments on his account while the 
amount was in dispute, and this was in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ws credit 
card account. He didnt recommend any amendments to Mr Ws credit file. 
Our investigator also concluded that he felt JLFSs offer of compensation was a fair one. 
They had paid Mr W a total of £335.27  this comprised £200 compensation and a refund of 
his payment of £135.27. JLFS had also refunded all interest charged on Mr Ws account 
between May and August 2020 and awarded Mr W 1,000 JLFS partnership card points. Our 
investigator explained that the time of Mr Ws dispute was an unprecedented time for JLFS, 
they were dealing with a huge increase in enquiries while trying to adapt to new ways of 
working themselves. 
Mr W didnt accept this. He said he had asked JLFS to raise a S75 claim. It wasnt his 
concern that theyd chosen to change this to a chargeback. He was only concerned that it 
had taken five months to resolve in his favour. He said that he felt he was entitled to more 
compensation, and that JLFS had offered £100 for his initial complaint which was still 
outstanding. He accepted our investigators comments that JLFS were facing difficulties, but 
he felt the difficulties he was facing at the same time hadnt been considered. He was in New 
Zealand for an extended period of five months, and his funds became stretched. He also felt 
his previous exemplary record with JLFS should be taken into account. As Mr W didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. Ill explain why.
S75/chargeback claim
I understand Mr Ws frustrations here and I know he would like to know why JLFS didnt 
follow his instructions and process a S75 claim when he notified them that his flights had 
been cancelled and he was struggling to obtain a full refund from E. Its clearly important to 
Mr W that JLFS pursued a S75 claim as he asked them to, rather than try to recover his 
money through the chargeback route. His reason for this is, he says, because S75 is a legal 
right, whereas chargeback is not. 
It's important to note that neither a chargeback nor S75 are a guarantee that a consumer 
recover their funds. Its not uncommon for a bank to deal with a customer dispute by raising 
a chargeback first and then, if that is declined, to consider whether a valid claim exists under 
S75. Usually, it wont make much difference as to which route a bank follows, so long as the 
bank acts fairly and reasonably in assisting its customer to recover their funds. 
However, here it seems it was important to Mr W that JLFS pursued a S75 claim rather than 
try to recover his money through the chargeback route. But Im not persuaded that JLFS 
would have dealt with a S75 claim any sooner in this case, as it wasnt the method chosen 
by them that caused Mr W to wait five months for his refund  it was the delays they were 
experiencing caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
It seems that all disputed payment claims were handled by JLFSs payment disputes team, 
and they were dealt with in date order that they were received. JLFS explained to Mr W 
when he first raised his dispute with them that they couldnt provide a timescale for when it 
might be resolved  although they did give an indication at that time that it could be between 
eight to ten weeks. But I understand why that indication wasnt met. It was an unprecedented 
time for everyone, including businesses. 
Mr Ws dispute was raised quite early into the pandemic, when JLFS would have been faced 
with not only a huge influx of disputes to deal with, but also a huge operational change to 
allow them to continue helping their customers. I agree with Mr W that five months is a long 
time to wait. But I also have to consider the impact of the pandemic on JLFS, including the 
operational challenges and the unprecedented demand on their service, and the amount 
they have offered to put things right. And, having considered everything, Im satisfied JLFS 
have acted fairly. Im satisfied they dealt with Mr Ws claim as soon as they were able to. 
And as soon as they realised that a chargeback claim would more than likely have been 
successful and that it was their fault that the chargeback would have been raised outside of 
the time limits explained by the card scheme rules, they refunded Mr W the total amount he 
was claiming for. Credit report
Mr W is unhappy that JLFS have marked a late payment on his credit report. He has said 
that it should be removed as the payment on his credit card statement was in dispute and 
should have been marked as such, therefore not incurring the need to pay it while it was 
being looked into. He has said that he continued to make the payment in full for the amount 
on his statement that wasnt in dispute, and therefore had paid the right amount. 
I accept that Mr W wasnt happy about what was happening in relation to his refund, but at 
the same time he had a contractual commitment to make the payments under his credit 
agreement. This was irrespective of any dispute on the account and JLFS warned him of the 
consequences of failing to meet his commitments. 
I dont agree with Mr Ws request that the information on his credit report be amended. As 
above, Mr W had an obligation under the terms and conditions of his credit card account to 
make a minimum payment towards his outstanding balance each month. JLFS explained 
this to him in their secure messages in April 2020, and explained the impact not making a 
payment could have on his credit file. Mr W made a conscious decision not to make his 
contractual payments to JLFS while he continued to pursue his right to claim the money 
back  while that is his choice to make, that decision has in part led to any adverse 
information being recorded on his credit report. Mr W could have avoided that and mitigated 
it by continuing to make his required contractual payments. JLFS are obliged to report how 
Mr W managed his account and theyre required to report this accurately. Im satisfied 
theyve done this here, and I wont be asking them to remove any late payment markers.
Customer service
Mr W has said that the service he has received from JLFS is unacceptable. He has said it 
took them too long to settle his dispute, they ignored messages from him during that time 
and one of their advisors gave him false information, which JLFS have refused to rectify. He 
also feels his previous exemplary record with JLFS should have been taken into account. 
Ive said above that JLFS took too long to give Mr W an answer to his dispute. And Ive also 
explained why Im satisfied their offer to Mr W is a fair one in the circumstances. I wont go 
into that again. JLFS have accepted that some of Mr Ws messages werent responded to in 
August 2020 via their secure messaging system, and theyve also acknowledged that Mr W 
was given some misleading information when he spoke to one of JLFSs advisors about a 
return of his payment of £135.27. But JLFS have shown that theyve taken Mr Ws 
comments seriously, and theyve awarded him £200 compensation in total for the lack of 
customer service and for being given misleading information. They have also refunded
Mr Ws payment of £135.27, as well as awarding him 1,000 JLFS partnership card points. In 
addition to this, JLFS refunded all the interest between May and August 2020 back to Mr Ws 
account. Im satisfied this is reasonable. 
I completely understand Mr Ws frustrations and empathise with him. It must have been 
difficult to find himself in New Zealand for a further, unexpected five months while the 
payment dispute was waiting to be looked into. But as Ive explained it was an 
unprecedented time for many consumers and businesses alike, and Im satisfied JLFS gave 
Mr W an answer as soon as they were able to. I know that Mr W doesnt think that was soon 
enough  but I dont think JLFS have taken his situation for granted or mis-understood it. 
They were just faced with their own extremely difficult circumstances to work through. And 
JLFS didnt cause the problem initially  it was E that caused Mr W to raise his S75 claim to 
JLFS. 
In relation to Mr Ws previous payment history with JLFS, I can see from his credit report that he hasnt missed any other payments. Its not for this service to decide how businesses 
should reward customer loyalty, or what they need to consider when dealing with customer 
loyalty. Thats for JLFS to decide. Its purely my role to decide if JLFS have acted fairly and 
reasonably in accordance with the terms and conditions and when considering the overall 
situation with Mr Ws complaint. And, in this case Im satisfied they have.
I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr W, but Im not asking JLFS to do anything 
more here. 
My final decision
Im not persuaded John Lewis Financial Services Limited have acted unfairly towards Mr W 
in recording a late payment on his credit file. And John Lewis Financial Services Limited 
have already paid Mr W the amounts mentioned in this decision to settle the complaint. I 
think what theyve paid is fair in the circumstances.
So, my decision is that John Lewis Financial Services Limited doesnt need to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman