DRN-2075795
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) would not pay for a new 
fuse board under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr Z contacted RSA because his fuse board had an intermittent fault causing the power to 
trip. RSA sent an electrician to assess the issue. The electrician fitted a new Residual 
Current Device (RCD) but, over the following weeks, the issue continued. The electrician 
said that a Residual Current Circuit Breaker with Overcurrent (RCBO) would need to be 
fitted to resolve the issue. However, RSA refused to pay for this, as it said this would be an 
upgrade.
Mr Z complained to RSA about the amount of time it took to progress the issue and the 
range of reasons it gave for not paying for the RCBOs. He said he had to pay for the RCBOs 
himself, but it should have been covered by his policy. 
RSA replied and said that all avenues had been exhausted to resolve the claim and that it 
was satisfied that its decision was appropriate and its reasons were clear.
Mr Z complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that he 
thought it was reasonable that RSA didnt cover the cost of the RCBOs as this was an 
upgraded part, which wasnt covered under the terms of the policy.
As Mr Z did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 July 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
RSA did initially deal with the claim. However, the main point of disagreement arose when 
the electrician identified that the way to deal with the problem of the power tripping was to 
replace an RCD with RCBOs.
Ive looked at the policy booklet that explained what was covered by the policy. This said 
Whichever  Homeplan youve chosen you can have confidence that our extensive cover 
and dedicated team will look after you and your home. It went on to say Now youll avoid 
the hassle and expense of unexpected central heating breakdowns. I also note that under 
the section on Electrics it said We will pay the cost of repair in order to restore operation to: 
electric systems. So, I think that Mr Z was likely to have an expectation that an issue with 
his fuse box of this nature would be fully covered and repaired when he made a claim.
The electrician had to visit on a few occasions to try and resolve the issue with the electrics. 
Initially, he replaced the RCD with another RCD, but this didnt permanently resolve the 
issue. The electrician then identified that the likely way to resolve it was to replace the RCD 
with RCBOs. However, RSA said that wasnt covered by the policy, so wouldnt be dealt with 
under the claim.
RSA has given Mr Z a few explanations for why installing RCBOs wasnt covered. It told Mr 
Z that it wouldnt pay for the installation of the RCBOs because the policy said it didnt cover 
any plumbing and electrics not installed, operated, maintained or repaired in accordance 
with established practice or manufacturer's instructions, statutory regulations or British 
Standards. I have thought about this. The issue that needed to be resolved was that an 
RCD kept tripping. RCDs are different to, but havent been replaced by, RCBOs. It is still 
possible to buy RCDs and have them installed. So, I dont accept that this part of the policy 
applies.
Im aware that RSA also said that changing from an RCD to an RCBO was an upgrade. Ive 
looked at the policy and cant find anything specifically on upgrades, but the policy does say 
Replacement parts for plumbing and electrical systems will be replaced with the industry 
standard equivalent. I think it is arguable either way whether changing from an RCD to an 
RCBO is an upgrade, but I dont think it is entirely relevant anyway. An RCBO is an industry 
standard device and, given the ongoing issue with the RCD, was the closest working 
equivalent to an RCD. On that basis, in my view, the installation of RCBOs to deal with the 
issue should have been covered as part of the claim.
Im aware that Mr Z is also unhappy about the amount of time that it took to deal with the 
claim and the range of reasons he was given for it not being permanently resolved. Looking 
at what happened, one of the issues was that it was an intermittent fault. This seems to have 
made it more difficult for the electrician to identify what was likely to have triggered the RCD 
tripping and it was only over a period of time that it became clear what might need to be 
done to resolve it. I think this also contributed to the range of reasons that Mr Z was given for 
his claim not being resolved to his satisfaction. RSA has also confirmed that the electrician 
didnt have delegated authority. This meant that the electrician had to check with RSA about 
what was covered by the policy to confirm whether he was able to proceed with the work as 
part of the claim. However, given that I think that RSA should have installed the RCBOs as 
part of the claim and that a sizeable part of the delay related to RSA saying it wasnt 
covered, I do think that Mr Z faced a number of unnecessary issues in trying to get his claim 
resolved. Im also aware that, ultimately, he had to arrange for the work to be done himself.
Thinking about all of the above, RSA did try to resolve the issue on a number of occasions. 
However, it then decided that the RCBOs werent covered. As, I have already said, I 
disagree with this decision. On that basis, I am therefore minded to uphold this complaint 
and to say that RSA should deal with the full claim including the installation of the RCBOs. I 
am also minded to say that RSA should pay Mr Z £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience of trying to get the issue dealt with via his policy and then having to arrange 
the repair himself.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 19 August 2020. Both parties replied before that date.
Mr Z accepted my decision.
RSA also accepted my decision and asked Mr Z to forward it a copy of the report and invoice 
for the installation of industry standard equivalent RCBOs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint, as I have no reason to revise my 
previous view.Putting things right
RSA should deal with the full claim including the installation of the RCBOs. RSA should pay 
Mr Z £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of trying to get the issue dealt 
with via his policy and then having to arrange the repair himself
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that the 
complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is upheld and that I require it to:
Consider Mr Zs claim, including the replacement of the RCBOs.
Pay 8% simple interest* on the claim amount from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement
Pay Mr Z £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr Z how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr Z a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman