DRN-3024798
The complaint
Ms L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont help her to get back some money she paid as
a deposit for goods which she said she later found out the seller couldnt supply. Ms L said
the seller had misrepresented what it could supply, and she thought HSBC should step in.
What happened
Ms L said that shed paid a deposit of £450 for new windows. She wanted a particular sort of
glass, and had understood this was what the company would supply. Ms L said that the
company had misrepresented this. When it emerged that they couldnt supply what Ms L
wanted, she asked the company for her money back. It would only make a partial refund, so
Ms L told HSBC she wanted to make a chargeback.
Ms L made this payment as a BACS transfer.
HSBC said it couldnt process a chargeback for her, because shed paid this money by faster
payment, not using a debit card. It knew shed had difficulty getting in touch with it on
occasions, so it paid her a total of £80 to say sorry for that.
Ms L said she had asked HSBC for the name of the recipient of the money, but it wouldnt
provide it. And she still thought HSBC should do something about this, as a disputed
transaction. She said that HSBC was responsible for checking the identity of the payee.
HSBC had identified this business by name, but this was just a trading name, and it was
pretending to be a limited company of the same name.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said that Ms L had made a
faster payment, and this couldnt be the subject of a chargeback request. So she didnt think
HSBC could help Ms L.
Ms L didnt agree. She said that because a BACS payment is instantaneous, like a debit
card payment, it should qualify under the chargeback system. She said shed authorised the
payment in reliance on HSBCs anti-money laundering checks, but there was no person who
had the name she had paid. And she hadnt received the goods that she had specifically
requested, which she said that the company told her it could provide. So Ms L said that
HSBC had participated in the fraud.
Our investigator explained that chargeback rights only exist for card payments. And she
didnt think that HSBC had participated in any fraud. She said that this wasnt a scam either,
Ms L had approached the company, and had been offered a partial refund, although it
wouldnt pay back all the money, which was what Ms L wanted.
Ms L insisted that chargeback rights do cover the sort of payment she made. And she said
that HSBC had participated in fraud, because HSBC had confirmed that the trading name
was a person, which it wasnt. She also thought this was a scam, as the company had
agreed to supply something it couldnt sell to her.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She asked if Ms L wanted to refer her complaint to
an ombudsman.
Ms L said she did. She wanted us to clarify whether a chargeback was possible for a bank to
bank transfer, including in the case of fraud. And she said that advice our investigator had
given on whether Ms L could bring a civil law case against the company was wrong. She
didnt know who the person was using this trading name, and she thought HSBC should tell
her. Ms L also said that wed not responded to her point about relying on HSBCs anti-money
laundering checks.
This case then came to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I understand that Ms L is very aggrieved at how the company she tried to buy from 
has behaved. But the complaint she brings to our service is about HSBC. I am only 
looking here at what HSBC did. And Im sorry to have to tell Ms L that I dont think 
that what has gone wrong here is HSBCs responsibility.
Ms L says that a chargeback request should be possible for a fraudulent payment, 
whether its made through a card payment or directly, bank to bank, through a 
transfer. But the term chargeback refers to the systems to contest payments that 
card scheme operators (whose symbol appears on each credit or debit card) have 
set up. And each of the schemes only covers payments made using the card with 
that symbol. There is no scope to make a chargeback for a payment which hasnt 
been made using one of these cards, whether or not it is fraudulent.
There is only very limited scope for HSBC to try to recover payments which are 
properly authorised by the sender, and made by bank transfer. And unfortunately I 
dont think those apply here.
There is a protocol banks should follow, if someones sent a payment to the wrong 
person by mistake. But thats not the case here. Ms L intended to make this payment, 
as shed understood that the company could supply what she wanted. She then 
discovered that it could not.
I know that Ms L has a firm view that the company acted fraudulently, promising 
something it couldnt deliver. The company was offering to provide something. Ms L 
says it wasnt what she wanted. But I dont think it would be reasonable for HSBC to 
take the same steps in this case, that our service might expect it to take, if, for 
example, Ms L had been cold called by someone who managed to get access to her 
bank account. Rather, I think that the resulting dispute is an issue which would be 
appropriate for a court to decide, after having the chance to hear evidence from both 
sides.
So I dont think that it would be appropriate for HSBC to seek to intervene here, and I 
havent been able to identify any way in which it could reasonably do so.
Ms L says that she cant take court action, because she doesnt know who the 
person is behind this trading name. Its not for our service to advise her on that, and I 
make no comment on whether Ms L can begin a court case with the information she 
has, or not.Ms L also says that HSBC has failed her, because when she made the payment, it 
identified this company only by its trading name, not by the name of the person who 
operates under that trading name. She has referred to this as HSBCs anti-money 
laundering checks. But thats not what these are.
Ms L is given the opportunity to check, when she makes a payment, if the payees 
details match what shes expecting. Confirmation of Payee, as its known, is an 
account name checking service that helps to ensure payments arent sent to a wrong 
account. Its a step to make sure the payee name (which can be a business) matches 
the account details. So HSBC shares with Ms L the information that the receiving 
bank has sent it, about the receiving account name match. Beyond this, HSBC isnt 
responsible for the payees account or how thats set up.
Ms L also says that HSBC should give her the name of the trader behind this trading 
name. But HSBC doesnt have that, and Ive not been able to identify any way in 
which it can demand that the receiving bank shares this information with it.
I know that Ms L will be deeply disappointed by this decision, but I dont think that 
HSBC is responsible for what has gone wrong here, and I dont think it has to do 
more than it has done, in order to try to set things right. So I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC didnt reply. Ms L sent a substantive reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Ms L has reframed her complaint. She says that her 
complaint is that she paid a deposit sum of £450 to the seller [which Ill call G] via bank to 
bank transfer for the supply and fitting of tinted glass windows. She said that the deposit 
payment was mistakenly paid to an account that is not G Ltd but an unknown payee 
account.
Ms L said that G did not supply the goods. So she sought a refund from HSBC.
Ms L said that she didnt accept that she had found out later that the seller couldnt supply 
 she said the seller misrepresented what it could supply. 
Ms L ran through the circumstances behind this. She said Gs sales representative offered to 
supply and fit tinted glass windows. She said she had placed reliance on the representatives 
statement that they would supply and fit tinted glass windows, and thats why she paid a 
deposit of £450 via bank to bank transfer.
Ms L said she then discovered promptly, via the surveyor that attended the site, that G did 
not have tinted glass windows, never had tinted glass windows, and could never supply 
tinted glass windows.
I would like to reassure Ms L that I do understand that it is, and always has been, her 
position that this payment was made as a result of a misrepresentation. 
Ms L said that when she discovered the misrepresentation she requested a full refund from 
G. She was offered a partial refund which she declined, and she raised a complaint with HSBC to recover her full deposit. She said she still hadnt received the goods or a full refund 
of her deposit.
Ms L set out her understanding of two circumstances where HSBC will provide a refund - the 
credit payment recovery scheme, and the chargeback scheme. 
Ms L said that HSBC had told her she wasnt covered by the credit payment recovery 
scheme, because the payment was intentionally made to the intended beneficiary. But she 
thought she should be covered by this scheme, because she said that her payment was 
intended to go to G Ltd, and it had been paid to an unknown payee, identified only as G, not 
a limited company. 
Ms L said that effectively the money cannot be traced to an individual named G, therefore 
this was a payment made in error. Ms L said her payment was made under the mistaken 
belief that this was a limited company when it was not. So she said this payment had, in 
error, credited the account of an unknown payee.
I understand why Ms L wants us to look at her complaint in a different way. But 
unfortunately, I dont think this reframing of her complaint helps Ms L. Thats because I dont 
agree with the argument shes set out now, which she says brings her complaint within the 
credit payment recovery scheme. 
Ms L intended to pay a business which she wanted to have install a particular sort of 
windows in her home. The money reached that business. Ms Ls own argument makes this 
clear. So I think the money Ms L sent arrived where she had intended it to go. And its my 
view that any dispute over whether the recipient was a trading name or a limited company, 
or what it had represented itself to be to Ms L, stands outside of the protocol on recovering 
payments made by mistake. I dont think that the scheme can reasonably be interpreted as 
covering this sort of mistake. So I still dont think Ms Ls complaint falls under the credit 
payment recovery scheme.
Ms L went on to argue that, because she was covered by the credit payment recovery 
scheme, HSBC could request the name of the account holder, through the scheme. As I 
dont agree that Ms Ls circumstances can reasonably be considered to fall within the 
scheme, I dont agree that HSBC can ask the recipient bank, under the protocols which 
underpin this scheme, to release this information. And without this, I havent been able to 
identify another way that HSBC can oblige the recipient bank to release this information for 
Ms L. 
Ms L said that Id set out that she wasnt covered by the chargeback scheme, and explained 
why. She then quoted my provisional decision, where I said -
There is only very limited scope for HSBC to try to recover payments which are 
properly authorised by the sender, and made by bank transfer. And unfortunately I 
dont think those apply here.
Ms L said I hadnt provided the very limited occasions when they do apply. She wanted to 
know why not, and why I hadnt set out the protocol. But I can see that Ms L has since 
familiarised herself with the limited scope which exists to recover payments authorised by 
the sender, through the credit payment recovery scheme. And she has sought to bring 
herself within this. Ive explained why Ive not accepted her arguments on this.
Ms L then challenged what Id said about the account name checks HSBC facilitates when a 
bank to bank transfer is being made. She once again quoted my provisional decision, this 
time where I said - .. Its a step to make sure the payee name (which can be a business) matches the 
account details. So HSBC shares with Ms L the information that the receiving bank 
has sent it, about the receiving account name match.
Ms L said that Id missed the point, that the payee name has to be either the name of a 
person or a business that is a limited company. She said G is not a person and is not a 
limited company, and Ms L said on that basis HSBC checks failed.
Again, Im sorry to have to tell Ms L that I dont agree with her. She has argued that the 
recipient bank ought not to have allowed G to open an account in a trading name, without 
also showing the name of an individual operating under that trading name. But if there was a 
mistake over this, HSBC didnt make it. All it was obliged to do was show Ms L the name on 
the account that she was paying. It did so. I dont think HSBC has failed here.
Ms L said that my analysis of this sharing of the payee name also contradicted HSBCs 
statement that its process for bank to bank transfer involves HSBC carrying out fraud 
checks. So Ms L said shed understood that, for a bank to bank transfer to proceed, HSBC 
would carry out fraud checks. And Ms L said that those checks must have failed, because 
HSBC didnt discover that G was not a person or a limited company, but was instead an 
unknown payee.
Ive explained in my provisional decision the scope of the checks that HSBC was obliged to 
do in this case. I still dont think it was HSBCs responsibility to identify the status of G in the 
way Ms L has suggested, and Ive also explained that I dont accept that Ms L transferred 
money to an unknown payee. 
Ms L said that if I didnt think that HSBC was responsible for how the recipients account was 
set up, then she wanted to know who she should report the recipient bank to, for setting up 
an account in a trading name that is not a limited company and failing to make that 
information available to other banks. Ms L can raise this concern with the Financial Conduct 
Authority, which regulates banks in the UK. 
Ive considered Ms Ls arguments carefully, but I havent changed my mind. I still dont think 
this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman