DRN-3105687
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt refund him the money he lost to a scam.
Background
Mr M has an account with Lloyds. In March 2020, he was cold called by someone who 
persuaded him to invest his money in cryptocurrency. The caller told him they could trade in 
cryptocurrency on his behalf and gave him an explanation as to how his investment would 
be managed. He was given the details of a bank account and he was persuaded to transfer 
£3,900 to it.
Unfortunately, Mr M hadnt been approached by a legitimate financial business, but by a 
scammer. Once he made the transfer, all contact from the scammer stopped. Mr M realised 
he must have fallen victim to a scam and so he promptly notified Lloyds.
Lloyds considered his case under the terms of the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
Code and chose to not pay him a refund. Lloyds thought that Mr M shouldve done more to 
ensure that the investment opportunity was a legitimate one. It did, however, think it couldve 
handled his complaint better than it did and so it offered him £150 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience this had caused.
Mr M wasnt happy with the answer he received from Lloyds and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it in part. The 
Investigator agreed with Lloyds that Mr M had made the payment with a reasonable basis for 
believing it to be in connection with a genuine investment opportunity. However, she also 
thought that Lloyds shouldve displayed a warning as part of the payment journey. She said 
that the fact that it failed to do so meant that Lloyds should refund Mr M 50% of his losses.
Mr M disagreed with the Investigators conclusion. He said that when he opened up his 
account with Lloyds, he was pressured into taking out online banking at the same time even 
though he didnt want to. If he hadnt done so, he says he wouldnt have lost out as part of 
this scam. Lloyds also disagreed with the Investigators opinion and said the payment Mr M 
made in connection with the scam wasnt out of character and so didnt suggest there was a 
risk of fraud.
Because neither Mr M nor Lloyds agreed with the Investigators conclusions, the complaint 
has been passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment. 
The CRM Code sets out standards that firms such as Lloyds are expected to meet in terms 
of protecting their customers from the risk of financial harm. But it also sets out expectations 
that a customer should meet. As a starting point, a customer should receive a refund if they 
fall victim to an APP scam such as this one. However, Lloyds can fairly and reasonably 
decline to pay a refund if it can show that one of the exceptions in the code applies. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr M was tricked into making the payments. He thought he was 
investing his money in cryptocurrency with a broker. But even though he was a victim of a 
scam, hes not entitled to a refund if Lloyds can establish that he failed to meet his requisite 
level of care under one or more of the exceptions set out in the code. 
Unfortunately, I think the evidence suggests Mr M didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing he was dealing with a legitimate financial business when he made the transfer. 
From what hes told us, he didnt take any steps to verify the legitimacy of the caller and he 
wasnt given any written information about the nature of his investment. Furthermore, it 
seems that he wasnt provided with any information about what return he could expect to 
make. He has said he was given the assurance that it would be risk free because Lloyds 
would cover his losses.
Overall, I think there were sufficient unusual factors here that Mr M ought to have acted far 
more cautiously than he did. Im satisfied, therefore, that Mr M didnt meet his requisite level 
of care under the code and so Lloyds isnt required to provide hm with a full refund.
However, as I explained the above, the Code also sets out standards that firms are expected 
to meet. It says Lloyds needed to be on the lookout for factors that might indicate an 
enhanced risk that Mr Ms payment instruction was part of a scam. Where such a risk is 
identified, the firm needs to take reasonable steps to provide the customer with an effective 
warning. In this instance, Lloyds has said that no fraud indicators were identified and so no 
warning was displayed. It has since said that the payment wasnt out of character and so 
there was no need for any warning to be displayed.
Broadly speaking, I agree that the payment wasnt significantly out of character. Ive seen 
statement data for the months preceding the payment and it wasnt uncommon for Mr M to 
authorise payments of around the size of the payment he made to the scammer. 
Nonetheless, Im mindful of the fact that the payment was still a significant one and that it 
was to a new payee. It wouldnt have been too onerous for Lloyds to have displayed a 
warning to help protect Mr M from the risk of fraud. 
Mr M has said that he wouldnt have fallen victim to the scam if Lloyds hadnt pressured him 
into setting up online banking when he opened his account. This was something he was 
reluctant to do and if he hadnt done so, it seems unlikely that he couldve fallen victim to this 
particular scam. However, Im not persuaded that this means that Lloyds should be 
considered the cause of 100% of his losses. Although it might have taken steps to persuade him to set up his internet banking facility, it was fundamentally his decision to use it to 
authorise the payments. 
Overall, I agree with the conclusion of the Investigator that a warning shouldve been 
displayed. It follows that, under the Code, it should be liable for 50% of Mr Ms losses.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Lloyds Bank PLC should now pay Mr M 50% of the money he lost to the scam. It should also 
add 8% simple interest per annum calculated from the date it declined his claim under the 
CRM until the date a settlement is paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman