DRN-3668383
The complaint
Mr B complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DG). His complaint relates to a 
mix-up in communication leading him to think his satellite TV equipment protection policy 
had been cancelled when it hadnt.
This decision only covers Mr Bs complaint about DG and his protection policy. It doesnt 
cover any issues relating to the satellite TV company.
What happened
Mr B had a protection policy with DG that covered his satellite TV equipment and his TV 
against breakdown and accidental damage. In March 2021 Mr B was experiencing problems 
with his satellite TV receiver and TV and tried to contact DG. However, he had difficulty 
getting through to DG, and when he did get through, he was told to raise his concerns 
online. However, he didnt have internet access. Mr B eventually contacted his satellite TV 
provider, who provided him with a replacement satellite TV receiver. After this, the issues 
hed been having were resolved.
Shortly afterwards, Mr B said he was contacted by someone who he thought was from DG. 
Mr B was asked for his address, and when he gave it, he was told it wasnt the correct 
address held for him. He then phoned what he thought was DG and was told his policy had 
been cancelled (and that they had an incorrect address). However, the monthly premiums 
for the policy continued to be collected (through direct debit).
Unhappy at what had happened, Mr B complained to DG. In their final response, they upheld 
his complaint in part. They confirmed his policy was still in place and at the correct address 
(and amended to cover his replacement satellite TV receiver). On his difficulty getting 
through to them, DG upheld the complaint, awarding him £5 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. On the subsequent contact Mr B said hed had from DG, having checked 
their call recording system, they could find no record of Mr B contacting them. DG thought 
the contact hed had was from a third-party, not them. As Mr Bs preferred communication 
method was by letter, DG said they wouldnt have contacted him by phone. Given this, they 
didnt uphold that part of Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B was unhappy at DGs response and complained to this service.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that while he didnt doubt someone 
had spoken to Mr B about his policy (wrongly being cancelled) there wasnt enough evidence 
to show it was DG. On the difficulty getting through to DG, he thought the £5 compensation 
was fair for the minor inconvenience. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. Mr B didnt think £5 compensation was fair and reasonable. He was also unhappy 
about what he thought was DG changing his address. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say I appreciate what Mr B has told us about his circumstances, particularly 
his health and that of his wife. I recognise these would have been very difficult for him and 
his wife. Ive borne this in mind when deciding whether DG has acted fairly towards Mr B.
The two key issues in Mr Bs complaint are, firstly, the difficulty he had getting through to DG 
initially when he had problems with his satellite TV equipment and his TV. And, secondly, the 
subsequent contact he says he had with who he thought was someone from DG, leaving him 
to think his policy had been cancelled and that they had an incorrect address for him.
On the first issue, Mr B is unhappy at the difficulty he had getting through to DG and -when 
he did  being told to go online with his concerns. DG have acknowledged the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr B, awarding him £5 in compensation. Ive thought about the 
circumstances described by Mr B and I understand that finding it difficult to get through 
would have been frustrating for him. And that not having access to go online meant it 
wouldnt have been helpful to have been told that by DG. However, I dont think DGs award 
is unreasonable given my understanding of the circumstances, even though I know Mr B 
doesnt think it sufficient. I think an acknowledgement and a token amount of compensation 
is reasonable.
On the second issue, there isnt any clear evidence of what happened with the contact Mr B 
described with someone he thought was from DG. DG say, having checked their call 
recording system, they have no record of any call with Mr B as hes described it. Looking at 
the other correspondence DG have provided, it appears they do have Mr Bs correct 
address. And theyve confirmed his policy continued to be in place  it wasnt cancelled. This 
is consistent with the monthly premiums continuing to be collected. And as DG had Mr Bs 
preferred method of communication being by post, theres no obvious reason why they 
would have phoned him.
DG say the call may have been from someone purporting to be from them. While its not 
possible to confirm this in the absence of any clear evidence, it is possible the call may have 
been from a third party seeking details from Mr B that they might have then sought to use for 
potentially fraudulent purposes. 
Given these factors, in the absence of any clear evidence the contact was genuinely with 
DG, I wont be asking DG to take any further action.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded that DG have acted reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman