DRN-3514266
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) pressured her into 
paying a lump sum of £15,000 to the outstanding balance on her mortgage account.
What happened
Mrs S received an annual mortgage statement in September 2019. The statement referred 
to her mortgage as being on an interest-only basis and said that she would need to make 
sure arrangements were in place to pay off the lump sum amounts by the end of the term. 
Mrs S had a main mortgage as well as three sub accounts and the statements showed that 
the remaining terms were between around four and seven years.
This information prompted Mrs S to go to a branch to discuss her mortgage. She was 
concerned that she would have to pay the outstanding amounts when she hadnt expected 
to. During the meeting, Mrs S agreed to pay £15,000 towards her mortgage. 
Mrs S has complained that she felt pressured into doing so. Halifax looked into Mrs Ss 
concerns and while it didnt know what was discussed at the branch, it offered to return the 
£15,000 to Mrs S  with deductions for the higher monthly interest she would have paid had 
the sum not been credited to her mortgage account. 
Mrs S didnt initially accept the offer, but she later changed her mind and the refund was 
credited back to her. But Mrs S wanted to be compensated for the stress and inconvenience 
caused to her, so she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into what 
happened and felt that Halifax should compensate Mrs S with £250. Halifax agreed to do 
this, but Mrs S felt she should receive £500. As the complaint could not be resolved, it has 
been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the complaint should be upheld, but I think the amount 
proposed by our investigator is broadly correct. Ill explain why.
Mrs S held a Retirement Home Plan mortgage, which is a Halifax lifetime product. My 
understanding is that this product is no longer available, but pre-existing products remain in 
place. The plan is on an interest only basis, so the customer is required to make monthly 
interest payments, but for this particular product, theyre not required to have a repayment 
vehicle in place to pay off the original loan amount at the end of the term. Instead, should the 
customer die, the outstanding balance will be cleared when the house is sold.
So, given the content of the annual statement Mrs S received, which said that the 
outstanding balances had to be repaid by the end of the terms on each account, I can see 
why Mrs S would have been distressed. And its reasonable to believe she went to a branch 
to try and understand what she needed to do. 
Mrs S says, at the branch, she was pressured into making a lump sum payment of £15,000. 
Pressure is a subjective area  what one person perceives as pressure may be different to 
another. And I cant know exactly what would have been said during the meeting. That 
means, I have to decide whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Ive considered the confusion that would have been caused by the statement and the fact a 
lump sum payment was ultimately made. And I think, while Mrs S may not have been 
pressured as such, its more likely than not she wasnt given a clear understanding of how 
her specific plan operated. I say this because it wouldnt have benefited Mrs S to make a 
lump sum payment. As long as she kept up with her monthly repayments  the terms on 
each account would continue to be extended indefinitely. So, there was no requirement to 
make a lump sum payment and she could have used that sum to continue meeting her 
contractual monthly payments for a very long time. For these reasons, I think Halifax should 
compensate Mrs S for any confusion and distress caused. 
I have gone on to think about how much would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Mrs S has explained that this had an extreme impact on her mental health and thats the 
main reason she thinks she should be awarded more. Ive thought about this carefully and I 
empathise with what Mrs S has said about how this affected her. But Ive also thought about 
what was discussed after the event. 
I have seen a call record from March 2020 that shows, Mrs S, along with a representative, 
discussed what happened in detail with Halifax. There was some suggestion that she had 
wanted to reduce her monthly payments  despite being given more information about the 
account. Mrs S was made aware that if she receives any letters about the mortgage terms 
ending, she would just need to call back and they would extend the terms for her. So Mrs S 
was more informed of the nature of her account at this point and yet she decided not to take 
the £15,000 back at this time. 
To me, it seems possible there was confusion on both parts given the unusual nature of 
Mrs Ss mortgage plan. Its clear Mrs S received some information that was misleading along 
the way and Halifax should compensate her for that. But I cant say for certain that Mrs S 
was pressured into making the lump sum payment and  even if she was  Halifax offered to 
return that sum to her, so she would have been back in the position she would have been in 
had the lump sum payment not been made. Mrs S seemed to have been satisfied everything 
was resolved at the time of the call even before the £15,000 was returned to her. So, 
considering everything, I think the amount proposed by our investigator  £250  is fair.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax should pay Mrs S £250 for the stress and 
inconvenience caused to her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax to pay Mrs S £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Hanna JohnsonOmbudsman