DRN-1536125
Complaint
Mr O says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him and his late wife a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) with their joint mortgage. A TMPP is a type of protection 
policy which typically includes payment protection insurance (PPI) together with other 
features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover. The individual elements of the 
TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes.
In this case, Im only addressing the PPI element that was sold to Mr O. The policy covered 
him against losing his job or being too ill to work. It seems the late Mrs O wasnt ever named 
on the policy. 
Background
I can see Halifax has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI as a goodwill gesture, 
but its denied it did anything wrong in selling the policy in the first place. 
One of our adjudicators has already said that they didnt think the cover was mis-sold. Mr O 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint about the mis-sale.
I certainly dont doubt Mr O himself may genuinely and honestly believe now that the policy 
was mis-sold. He says he was just told to sign the paperwork, as was his late wife, and they 
never agreed to or even discussed any forms of insurance. 
But Im obviously conscious that these events were 16 years ago now. We dont have the 
sale paperwork available anymore, but this isnt particularly unusual. Nevertheless, Halifax 
sent me screenshots of its computer system and in my view these tend to show that PPI 
was discussed at the time as I can see Mr O was asked questions about potentially losing 
his earnings. 
I also note that Mr O made two successful claims on the policy in 2011 and 2013. This would 
obviously mean he had an awareness of it being in place. Halifax paid him out on both 
occasions which helped to pay his and the late Mrs Os mortgage. When asked about this, 
Mr O said he only became aware he had the cover when he told Halifax hed lost his 
earnings. But I see he kept the policy after this, for a number of years, and he claimed again, 
in 2013. So even if I were to accept he initially didnt know (or had forgotten) he had the PPI 
cover, he seems to have been happy to keep the policy in place, until 2015.
Im afraid all this points more reliably to Mr O and his late wife agreeing to the cover at the 
time they took out their mortgage. I accept he might not agree with this now, but I think the stronger evidence is that the policy was agreed to from the outset and they kept it for several 
years because they wanted to have some protection in place.  
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mr O because Halifax recommended this to 
him and the late Mrs O as part of an advised sale. 
I think it was suitable and I say this because Mr O seems to have been eligible for the cover 
and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. He may well 
already have had some sickness protection with his job. But Im afraid this doesnt mean the 
cover wasnt suitable for him. I think the mortgage was a significant and long-term financial 
commitment and secured against their home. So the consequences of not being able to 
make the repayments could have been serious. The PPI cover, on the other hand, was 
designed to pay a monthly sum for up to 24 months if theyd needed to claim. In my 
experience, this period is for longer than many PPI policies that were sold at the time and it 
was for much longer than the protection provided with Mr O's job.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. From 
similar policies Ive seen, evidence that the costs were set out during the sale was usually 
present. I accept we no longer have the actual copies now in respect of Mr O, but I think its 
more likely he and the late Mrs O would have known what the cover was costing and what 
elements of the TMPP they had agreed to. I think they probably had enough information on 
which to make an informed choice.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr O. But to uphold his complaint Id need to think it was more 
likely he and the late Mrs O never gave their consent or that there were other flaws in the 
sale. I simply dont have that evidence and I think its more likely they tailored the cover to 
suit their needs of the time. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr O and the estate of the late Mrs 
O's complaint and I dont direct Bank of Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman