DRN-3615690
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDFC) declined three 
payments and was slow to return the money to her account which led to her credit file being 
adversely affected.
What happened
Mrs T was due to make a minimum payment of £175.13 by 6 May 2022. On 08 May 2022 
Mrs T tried to make two payments of £180.00 and a third attempt was made on 11 May. All 
these payments went into a pending state which meant they were not paid to SDFC. Mrs T 
spoke to SDFC and it confirmed the first two payments had not been received by it but were 
in a half-way house. It was able to reverse them so the money went back to her bank 
account. It explained the cause of the problem was unknown and may have been with Mrs 
Ts bank.
The same issue arose with the third payment but Mrs T believes the return of that payment 
took too long.
SDFC contacted Mrs T and advised of a range of alternative payment options. It said that no 
arrears would be recorded if payment was made in May. As no payment was received it 
recorded the arrears on her credit file and made arrangements to collect the outstanding 
money.
SDFC rejected Mrs Ts complaint and so she brought the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that she 
could not identify any error by SDFC.
Mrs T didnt agree and said she had made efforts to make the payments and it wasnt her 
fault that they had not been paid. I asked Mrs T for copies of her bank statements showing 
the attempted payments, but these were not supplied despite her being granted additional 
time to supply them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is against SDFC and to uphold it I have to be satisfied that it did something 
wrong. Having reviewed its records and taken note of the evidence supplied by Mrs T I 
cannot identify an error by SDFC.
I accept that Mrs T tried to make the payments, but they failed and the money which was 
owed to SDFC was not paid over to it. I cannot say what the issue was, but SDFC explained 
alternative options to enable her to pay the money and allowed her to the end of May to do 
so.  I consider that was fair and reasonable. I gather her last payment was made in April 
2022 and later she entered into a payment arrangement. I can see that it arranged for the 
payments to be returned and I dont believe it delayed matters.
As no money was received it recorded the debt on her credit file. I have not seen any 
evidence of delay by SDFC in returning the payments so I cannot uphold her complaint on 
that point. Nor can I say that the information passed to the credit reference agencies is 
incorrect. 
I have every sympathy with Mrs T, but I cannot safely conclude that SDFC did anything 
wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman