DRN-2093604
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that he hasnt received a bonus payment for opening an account with ICICI 
Bank UK Plc.
What happened
In early 2020 Mr M opened a HiSave fixed rate account with ICICI. For opening the account 
Mr M was expecting to be paid a £50 bonus which he had seen advertised online. When he 
didnt receive the payment Mr M complained to ICICI.
ICICI told Mr M that they didnt offer bonus payments for opening accounts. Mr M thought 
this wasnt right so brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She explained that ICICI didnt offer 
incentives for opening accounts. With some research our investigator discovered that a 
comparison website did show a £50 bonus, but this was only applicable if the account was 
opened through a third party savings platform. Because Mr M opened the account directly 
with ICICI the bonus didnt apply. She also explained that the offer was made solely by the 
savings platform and ICICI didnt have any involvement with the bonus, nor any agreement 
to pay. 
Mr M disagreed saying he shouldnt be penalised for inadvertently opening the account 
directly rather than through the third party savings platform. Our investigator considered 
what Mr M said. She thought it would be unfair to ask ICICI to pay the bonus as it was 
offered by the savings platform. Mr M felt this was unfair so the complaint has come to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Mr M saw the opening bonus advertised online and his intention was to 
open an account with ICICI and receive that bonus. He hasnt received the bonus and I can 
understand why hes unhappy about this. This is especially so as the amount he invested is 
large, and he says he chose to invest with ICICI because of the bonus.
But this doesnt necessarily mean that ICICI should pay Mr M the bonus.
ICICI says they dont offer incentives or bonuses for opening accounts. And Ive seen no 
evidence to contrary. 
What I have seen is evidence that a comparison website gave details of the bonus as 
offered by a third party savings platform. To be eligible for that bonus a consumer was 
required to open an ICICI account through that platform. What happened here is that Mr M 
opened the account directly with ICICI. Because of this Mr M hasnt been paid the bonus.
When dealing with our investigator Mr M said he feels that ICICI had an intention to pay the 
bonus through their partnership with the third party savings platform. Because of this hed 
like ICICI to honour the bonus as a gesture of goodwill.
Ive seen no evidence of a partnership between ICICI and the third party savings platform 
and Im persuaded that there is no connection. The third party savings platform made the 
bonus offer independently of ICICI who had no involvement in offering the incentive. 
It was the intention of the third party savings platform to offer the bonus and not the intention 
of ICICI. This is an important distinction. 
Mr M hasnt been paid the bonus as he opened the account directly with ICICI. Im sure this 
was an innocent mistake. But because ICICI had no involvement in offering the bonus, and 
theres no connection between them and the third party, it wouldnt be fair to ask for the 
payment to be made.
Having looked at everything Im satisfied that ICICI have acted fairly and reasonably when 
dealing with Mr M. ICICI does not offer bonuses for opening accounts so I wont be asking 
them to pay Mr M. Thats not say Mr M hasnt lost out; I think he has, but this wasnt through 
any action of ICICI.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman