DRN-1997862
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with how St Andrews Insurance plc handled a claim made on her Halifax 
home insurance.  
What happened
Mrs H says shes experienced issues with flooding affecting her property since around June 
2012. Mrs H has said the flood water comes from an unmaintained culvert on land owned by 
her local council adjoining her property. St Andrews has been aware of the issue, which 
initially only appeared to affect Mrs Hs garden, for a number of years and sent a claims 
consultant to Mrs Hs property without registering a claim to provide support and advice to 
Mrs H. Around December 2015, during the claims consultants visit, Mrs H says she told the 
consultant she wouldnt be pursuing a claim on her household insurance for any damage 
until the issues with the water course had been resolved.
In early 2017, Mrs H contacted St Andrews again saying there was water running under her 
house and the laminate flooring in her lounge was moving apart. She said shed had to 
rebuild a retaining wall, the steps to her house were disintegrating and she was experiencing 
problems with her garage door. She said all of these problems were caused by the ingress 
of water coming from the land adjoining her property. St Andrews say it registered a claim 
but also that it referred Mrs H to the provider of her legal expenses cover. 
In early March 2018, Mrs H complained to St Andrews. St Andrews responded saying her 
points related to a claim made on her legal expenses cover offered by a different provider 
concerning the water. The letter mentioned Mrs Hs flood claim and pointed out it would only 
cover damage caused by a one-off event and not damage occurring over a period of time. St 
Andrews asked Mrs H for further information to support her claim in addition to that which 
shed provided already. St Andrews appointed a claims consultant to assess Mrs Hs claim 
in June 2018.
St Andrews visited Mrs Hs property in September 2018 once initial difficulties in arranging 
an appointment because of Mrs Hs commitments had been resolved. Mrs H said that during 
the visit the consultant asked her to collate estimates relating to the damage. Mrs H told St 
Andrews at the beginning of February 2019 that shed finished gathering this information 
and its claims consultant picked the information up from her property a month later.
In July 2019, a new consultant was appointed to Mrs Hs claim who visited her property but 
Mrs H was unable to attend. The claims consultant then arranged for a specialist third party 
to visit Mrs Hs property around October 2019. The third party visited but didnt gain access 
to Mrs Hs dwelling and said hed return after heavy rain. 
 
A few weeks later Mrs H contacted St Andrews. She said thered been heavy rain, her front 
path had collapsed, water had poured into her porch and her parking bay had crumbled.  
Mrs H told St Andrews she no longer felt safe in her own home.
The third party assessor issued its report to St Andrews. It said it hadnt seen any damage 
to Mrs Hs dwelling consistent with flooding and didnt think a further visit would be 
necessary because the matter would fall within common law responsibilities associated with 
the adjacent landowners. 
St Andrews then declined Mrs Hs claim saying there was no clear damage caused by a 
one-off event such as an escape of water or flood and that the issue of the water ingress 
was gradual and on-going and so wasnt covered by Mrs Hs household policy. It said a 
further visit wouldnt be necessary.
Mrs H complained. She said St Andrews shouldnt decline her claim and that thered been a 
catalogue of errors in the handling of it, including wasting her time by asking her to gather 
estimates.
St Andrews issued its final response letter to Mrs Hs complaint. It didnt agree it should 
cover her claim but accepted thered been delays in providing Mrs H with a decision about it. 
St Andrews accepted that by asking Mrs H to provide further information, it may have led 
Mrs H to believe her claim would be covered. St Andrews offered Mrs H £500 
compensation.
 
Mrs H brought her complaint to us. She said St Andrews had told her she had a claim and 
so it should settle it. She said shed provided a solution to the issues with her property, which 
she says St Andrews ignored and said that we should refer to the paperwork shed send in 
for further details of her concerns.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. She said Mrs H hadnt demonstrated an 
insured peril  or flood  had occurred and that the damage had been mainly to the outside 
of her dwelling. Our investigator thought the damage had been occurring gradually for some 
time and said this wasnt covered by Mrs Hs policy. Our investigator felt the compensation 
was fair but invited Mrs H to provide information on specific floods.
Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans decision. She didnt provide details of individual floods but 
provided a flood specialists report that said her property was at risk of surface water 
flooding. She said her living room had collapsed and water was now submerging her BT box.
I asked Mrs H to consider commissioning an experts survey on whether flooding had 
caused the damage shed described. Mrs H later told us shed tried but had been unable to 
find an expert who would undertake such a survey because the water was coming from 
council-owned land. Mrs H said she had received a third party report about the lack of 
maintenance of the culvert that shed sent to her local council.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has raised concerns about her legal expenses cover but because this cover isnt 
underwritten by St Andrews, I am unable to consider these points as part of this decision. I 
am also unable to comment on legal matters or the legal liabilities of Mrs H, her local council 
or any other parties. So this decision only concerns St Andrews decision to decline Mrs Hs 
flood claim and the errors Mrs H feels St Andrews made in the handling of her claim. 
When a consumer makes a claim for damage caused by flooding, we think it reasonable for 
the consumer to demonstrate that any damage claimed for has been caused by flooding and 
not something else that may not be covered by the terms and conditions of the consumers 
policy, such as damage that has occurred gradually. St Andrews concluded there is no clear damage to Mrs Hs property caused by a one-off 
event such as flooding and that the cause of the damage is gradual.  And this conclusion 
was reached by experts at St Andrews. So for me to be able to consider whether these 
experts were wrong and that St Andrews shouldnt have declined Mrs Hs flood claim, Mrs H 
would need to provide expert testimony saying that the damage she describes to the parts of 
her property covered by her policy was caused by flooding. 
But Mrs H hasnt provided this. Mrs H said she tried but was unable to engage a surveyor to 
carry out a survey. Shes provided a flood report which says that her property is at risk of 
flooding but doesnt say theres damage that has been caused by flooding. Ive reviewed the 
detailed timeline Mrs H provided to this service that starts in 2012 and includes details of the 
parties Mrs H dealt with and contacted about the flooding. But theres no mention at all of an 
expert ever concluding that the damage Mrs H describes to her dwelling - or any other parts 
of her property covered by her policy - was caused by flooding. 
And without expert evidence from Mrs H about the cause of the damage, I cant say on 
balance that the conclusions reached by the experts at St Andrews are wrong. So it wouldnt 
then be fair for me to instruct St Andrews to pay Mrs Hs claim for flood damage, when 
theres no evidence that the cause of damage described by Mrs H is flooding or any other 
peril insured by her cover.
Mrs H said she didnt think the claims consultant who visited her over the summer of 2019 
could have properly evaluated her claim because his visit lasted only ten minutes. St 
Andrews said the visit was forty minutes and - as well - sent a specialist third party to survey 
Mrs Hs property. But without the expert testimony Ive already mentioned, Im unable to 
make a finding on whether the conclusions reached by St Andrews from its visits are wrong.
 
Mrs H says her neighbours successfully made claims on their insurance. But irrespective of 
this, Mrs H would still need to provide evidence that the damage - specific to the parts of her 
property covered by her policy - has been caused by flooding if I am to require St Andrews 
to do anything further.
 
Mrs H also said an insurance director from St Andrews told her that her claim would be 
covered. But Ive not been able to find any evidence of this. I can see a file note where a 
claims consultant said there was still a claim to be considered, but this is not the same as 
saying Mr Hs claim should be covered.
  
But I think the request by St Andrews for estimates caused Mrs H unnecessary trouble and 
upset, when it would make its decision about her claim by looking at the damage to Mrs Hs 
property alongside her policys terms and conditions and not estimates. And I think the delay 
of around five months between St Andrews picking up the estimates from Mrs Hs house 
and then contacting her again about her claim is unreasonable. So I think Mrs H should be 
awarded compensation for her trouble and upset and I think £500 is a fair and reasonable 
amount.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint against St Andrews Insurance plc. 
If it hasnt done so, St Andrews Insurance plc should pay Mrs H the £500 it has already 
offered Mrs H, but I do not require it to do anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman