DRN-4086079
The complaint
Ms F says Tesco Personal Finance PLC irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
Ms F took out a loan from Tesco Bank on 7 October 2019 for £12,000 over 120 months. The 
monthly repayments were £168.45. 
Ms F says Tesco Bank did not carry out adequate checks, had it done so it would have seen 
she had a significant amount of debt and that her income could not support this loan. 
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Fs complaint. He found Tesco Bank ought to have 
carried out better checks, but from the available evidence he could not conclude it ought to 
have made a different lending decision had it done so. 
Ms F disagreed with this assessment saying Tesco Bank had never asked about her income 
or outgoings, she wants to see evidence that it did. Our investigator explained that he would 
ask Tesco Bank for this. As he had concluded Tesco Bank should have done better checks 
though, he urged Ms F to send this service the information he had previously requested, 
namely bank statements as evidence of her income and outgoings in the months prior to her 
application. This would to allow him to assess what better checks would have shown Tesco 
Bank and may change the outcome.
Ms F did not supply this information but wanted an ombudsmans review re-iterating she did 
not accept Tesco Bank did any of the relevant checks. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Ms Fs complaint. 
Tesco Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Our approach to complaints
about irresponsible lending is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
Before providing the loan to Ms F, Tesco Bank was required to carry out proportionate 
checks to ensure the lending was affordable. There isnt a specific set of checks that need to 
take place, but Tesco Bank was required to undertake reasonable and proportionate checks 
taking into consideration, amongst other things, the value and term of the lending.
To reach a decision on this case I have therefore considered if Tesco Banks checks were
proportionate; if so, did it make a fair lending decision; and if not, what would better checks
most likely have shown.
Tesco Bank has provided the information it gathered to make its lending decision. This 
shows it asked Ms F for her income, employer, time in current employment, residential 
status, number of dependents and the purpose of the loan. It estimated her outgoings using 
data from the Office for National Statistics. It then carried out a credit check to understand 
her credit history, her current level of unsecured and mortgage debt and the cost of her 
current credit commitments. It combined these inputs with external and internal credit 
scores. From these checks it concluded the loan would be affordable for Ms F.
Ms F says she was never asked about her income and wants Tesco Bank to evidence that 
she gave this information. From the report Tesco Bank has provided I can see it has listed 
£3,000 net monthly income in a column headed Customer as the source. And from what we 
know about Tesco Banks loan application process at the time it is most likely she was asked 
to provide her income to progress. I have found no reason to question the accuracy of the 
report the bank has provided. 
However, Ms Fs complaint does not turn on this issue  I will explain why. I am not 
persuaded the checks were proportionate as they showed Ms F had £17,529 of unsecured 
debt that was costing her £516 each month in addition to her mortgage payment of £571. 
Given her declared income of £3,000, this in itself was not a reason not to lend, but I think it 
was a reason to complete further checks.
When we have cases like this, we try to recreate what the lender would have seen had it 
carried out better checks. We ask for bank statements from the months prior to the loan as 
this allows us to see the complainants actual income and expenditure  and so to 
understand what proportionate checks would most likely have shown the lender. 
In this case though I am not able to do this as Ms F has not provided the information 
requested. This means I cannot fairly conclude that better checks would have shown the 
loan to be unaffordable. And there was nothing in the data Tesco Bank did gather that meant 
it was wrong to lend  Ms F was up to date with all her active credit, she was only using 30% 
of her available credit card limits and there was no adverse data on her credit file. I would 
add here that Ms F has quoted a much higher level of unsecured indebtedness (£56,301) 
but the credit check Tesco Bank completed showed £17,529 and I can only fairly expect it to 
respond to the data its check returned. As Ms F had a Tesco Bank credit card it also had 
access to how she had managed that credit since 2012  it has confirmed Ms F often paid 
more than the minimum payments and at times had cleared her balance in full, so there was 
nothing to suggest she was under financial pressure.
So, overall I cannot conclude Tesco Bank was wrong to lend to Ms F. I am sorry Ms F went 
on to have financial difficulties, but from what I have seen it seems these were triggered by 
the impact of the pandemic on her income. I have then thought about whether Tesco Bank 
treated her unfairly or unreasonable in some other way. I dont think it did. I can see it 
offered a seven-month COVID payment break and then agreed to a reduced payment plan. I 
cannot know from the case file what the status of Ms Fs loan is, but I would remind Tesco 
Bank of its obligation to treat Ms F fairly, and with forbearance, if she is still struggling 
financially.
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman