DRN-3915377
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wont refund cash 
withdrawals they dispute from their joint account.
What happened
Mrs P explains that the withdrawals in dispute were made with her card details and came to 
over £2,100. She says she didnt make them and discovered this when a payment was 
declined as there was no money left in their joint account.
RBS said that it wouldnt be making a refund. There was no way identified that a third party 
had discovered the PIN on the card. And the amounts withdrawn were below the maximum 
available and didnt fit the expected pattern of a fraudsters use. There was no fraud alert as 
the genuine card and PIN were used and the card wasnt known to be lost or stolen. RBS 
said that it had no reported incidents of the chip on a card being cloned and noted that the 
card was used to make a genuine point of sale payment between the disputed withdrawals. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The cash withdrawals here 
would require the card and the PIN. Mrs P had confirmed that the card had remained in her 
possession and that she didnt write down the PIN or give it to anyone. And that she had 
used the card once she remembered during the period. So, our investigator couldnt see how 
it could have been taken, used and returned to Mrs P without her noticing. RBS wasnt able 
to provide any information about CCTV in this case.
Mrs P didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. She was upset for it to be 
implied that she was a thief. She was the victim, and this had been condoned. No one could 
explain to her why CCTV hadnt been looked at. This wasnt good enough and RBS had 
failed to investigate properly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what most likely 
happened based on the available information and what Mrs P and RBS have said. 
RBS issued a final response to this complaint on 7 December 2021. And through our 
investigator it told me that it didnt have any more information to provide. It did say as Id 
thought that it wouldnt be in a position to ask for CCTV from third parties that operated cash 
machines. Id expect that to be a matter for the relevant authorities to pursue and then for 
RBS to co-operate with any investigation.
I also asked our investigator to provide Mrs P with a list of both the disputed cash 
withdrawals and all the point-of-sale payments made using her card during the period. And 
to highlight those days where as I understood it both disputed withdrawals and undisputed 
point of sale purchases had been made at a convenience store local to her. Mrs P 
responded that it was only the cash withdrawals that she was disputing. She said that there 
was no one in her household who could have made these. And that visitors couldnt have 
taken the card and replaced it. Mrs P again wanted to know why CCTV hadnt been 
examined as she thought that this would have answered a lot of questions. Mrs P said she 
was in her seventies and had a disability. She had been caused so much stress because 
shed been accused of stealing her own money. The police had told her that the first thing 
that should have been looked at was CCTV.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mrs P wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mrs P either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the card as RBS says?
This service hasnt seen evidence of it being possible to clone the chip on a card for 
everyday use. There is no information to support there being other than Mrs Ps genuine 
card involved here. And Im satisfied that as the dispute relates to multiple cash withdrawals 
that these could only have been authenticated when the chip on her card was read and the 
correct PIN entered.
As I mentioned Mrs P was provided with a list of the payments involved and these started I 
understand on 23 October 2021 and continued through to 17 November 2021. While I can 
see as RBS says that the maximum wasnt taken as quickly as possible each time, I also 
note the volume of payments and that on some days multiple withdrawals were made. I 
dont have the times of those. But there were also some nine point of sale payments during 
this period and all of which Mrs P recognises. Notably some involved a convenience store 
which seemed to be local to Mrs P and coincided with cash withdrawals I understand to 
have been made at that location on the same day too.
I appreciate that Mrs P thinks CCTV would help resolve things. This isnt going to be 
available here especially given the time that has passed. And it often doesnt assist as even 
if someone else was using the card it wouldnt resolve whether that person was acting with 
authority or not.
A key issue here is how a third party would have got access to Mrs Ps card. Given that she 
used it during the period that would have had to happen on a number of occasions. And 
another person using it wouldnt likely be able to predict when Mrs P might want to make a 
payment herself. The card seemed to be stored in a visible place in her phone case. From 
the evidence here I dont there is a likely way in which the card could have been taken and 
replaced without her knowing so many times. And a third party would first have had to be 
somehow able to discover the PIN too. 
Thats why I asked Mrs P whether anyone known to her might have been able to make the 
withdrawals taking into account the pattern of payments, the local nature of them and what 
would need to be easy access to her card. She doesnt think that could have happened and 
shes said she didnt tell anyone her PIN or write it down. And I would say that if she had 
allowed someone to use her card at all and that person continued to use it shed bear a 
responsibility for that.Im looking here at whether its reasonable for RBS to hold Mr P and Mrs P responsible for 
these payments which I appreciate come to a substantial amount of money from their joint 
account. And Ive looked at what would have been required for an unknown third party to 
have made them. And whether someone known to Mrs P could have made them without her 
knowing or consenting. Im afraid for the reasons Ive given I dont think that either of those 
are the most likely scenarios here. On balance I dont find that these payments were 
unauthorised. 
I appreciate what Mrs P has said about how she feels about what is at stake for her. But I 
dont have a reasonable basis to require RBS to do anything further and to refund the 
money.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman