DRN-1366490
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit 
card in 1998. Mr C says American Express Services Europe Limited (AmEx) mis-sold the 
PPI to him.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, AmEx had to give Mr C clear information about it so he could decide if 
it was right for him. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think AmEx gave Mr C clear 
enough information about the limitations and exclusions in the policy.
AmEx as sent us a copy of Mr C s application form for the credit card. But I dont think this 
clearly explains the limitations or exclusions of the policy. And I dont think theres enough 
evidence for me to say that these limitations or exclusions were clearly explained to Mr C at 
any other point during the sale either.
I think this would have mattered to Mr C as hes told us he was self-employed at the time of 
the sale. And the policy made it significantly more difficult for a self-employed person to 
claim the unemployment benefit than for an employed person  as their self-employed 
business would have to be insolvent.
AmEx has asked Mr C to provide proof that he was self-employed at the time. But Mr C has 
been consistent that he was self-employed throughout his complaint, both when initially 
raising the complaint with AmEx and when bringing it to this service. And Ive not seen 
anything to contradict that he was self-employed at the time. So Im satisfied that he was 
self-employed at the time and I dont think its necessary to require any further proof from 
him.
Based on what Mr C has told us, I dont think hed have taken the policy if it had been made 
clear that it would be more difficult for him to claim the unemployment benefit due to him 
being self-employed. So I think hes lost out as a result of AmEx not making the exclusion 
clear to him.
 
 
Putting things rightAmEx should put Mr C in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out the PPI in 1998. 
The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and AmEx should:
Pay Mr C the amount he paid each month for the PPI
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year from then on.
 
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AmEx can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AmEx to take off tax from this interest. AmEx must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
American Express Services Europe Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman