DRN-3687435
The complaint
Mr J complains Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) failed to correctly set up an 
arrangement to pay. 
What happened
In September 2017, Mr J entered into a 60 month conditional sale agreement for a used car. 
He was required to pay monthly instalments of £404.
During the course of the agreement, Mr J experienced ill health meaning he was unable to 
work which resulted in him experiencing financial difficulty. To assist him, Moneybarn agreed 
to a number of payment deferrals and payment plans. 
In September 2021, Moneybarn agreed to a three month payment plan in which Mr J was 
required to pay the contractual amount plus an additional £79 in order to reduce the arrears. 
This was due to start in October 2021. Mr J said Octobers payment wasnt taken by direct 
debit as he expected. As a result, Moneybarn said he had broken the payment plan and they 
werent willing to reinstate it. They said Mr J needed to pay at least an additional £300 per 
month to clear the arrears to bring the account up to date by the end of the agreement. 
The agreement fell into further arrears. Mr J complained. Moneybarn accepted they had 
incorrectly told Mr J Octobers payment would be taken by direct debit. For that, they offered 
£20 compensation.
Unhappy with their response, Mr J referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case was upheld. They concluded the three month payment plan wasnt 
set up correctly and Moneybarn hadnt given clear information about it. To put things right, 
they said Moneybarn should pay £150 compensation and update Mr Js credit file for 
October 2021 to show a payment hadnt been missed. 
Moneybarn agreed but Mr J maintained his position. In summary, he said there were several 
instances of Moneybarn failing to set up payment plans correctly in the past which had 
negatively impacted his credit file. He said he had tried to contact Moneybarn on numerous 
occasions to resolve the issue without success. He also said had they allowed him more 
time, he wouldve been able to get the account back up to date within a reasonable period. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the findings of the investigator and Ive decided to partially 
uphold Mr Js complaint.
Im aware Mr J raised a previous complaint which concerned the account and Moneybarns 
actions between January and July 2020. As our service has already investigated that 
complaint, I wont be commenting on this further. From my understanding there was a further 
complaint about matters around September 2020 however I dont find this to be subject to 
this complaint. In this decision, I will only be considering what happened concerning the 
payment plan that was due to start in October 2021. 
Moneybarn accept Mr J was given incorrect information about the payment for October 
2021, that isnt in dispute so I dont find it necessary to any further comments about this. 
Moneybarn accept there was a failing as Mr J was told the payment would be taken 
automatically by direct debit but it wasnt. 
What remains in dispute is how to put things right. Moneybarn initially offered £20 but they 
later agreed to the investigators recommendation of £150 compensation and to remove 
adverse information from Mr Js credit file for October 2021. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied this resolution is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain. 
Mr J states because of Moneybarns failing, the payment plan was cancelled which meant 
the arrears increased. I understand the agreement later came to an end and the car was 
given back. 
I can understand why Mr J wouldve been frustrated and upset by this. The payment plan 
was cancelled due to no fault of his own and Moneybarn werent willing to reinstate it. 
Therefore I consider it fair for adverse information to be removed from Mr Js credit file for 
October 2021. Instead he was told he would need to pay at least £300 a month. Given 
Moneybarn had recently discussed his financial circumstances, it wouldve been clear he 
wouldnt have been able to afford that amount. Based on Moneybarns contact notes, Mr J 
told them that he believed three months would allow him the opportunity to get his business 
back up and running and his financial circumstances would improve. 
When the payment plan was initially set up, Moneybarn advised at the end of the three 
month period they would review the situation. Its difficult for me to say what wouldve 
happened had Octobers payment been made and the payment plan completed 
successfully. For example, would Mr Js financial circumstances had significantly improved, 
would Moneybarn have agreed to another payment plan, etc. I cant say with any certainty 
what wouldve happened but Ive thought about what I believe is most likely to have 
happened. 
Having done so, Im persuaded Moneybarn wouldve taken further action at that point and 
sought to bring the agreement to an end rather than allowing the arrears to continue 
accumulating. I say this because Mr J had a number of plans in the past but the arrears on 
the account remained significant at over £4,000 and the expectation was the agreement 
would  be brought up to date by the end of the term. In order for that to happen, the monthly 
instalments wouldve had to increase significantly. Based on what Ive seen including the 
history of repayments and Mr Js financial circumstances at the time, Im not persuaded he 
wouldve been in the financial position to bring the account back up to date within a 
reasonable period of time after the three month plan or by the end of the agreement. 
Overall, while I accept there was a failing by Moneybarn as outlined above, Im not 
convinced that alone was the cause of the build up of the arrears. I also dont consider the 
failing to be the determining factor in further action being taken by them. Nevertheless I 
recognise the impact of the situation on Mr J which is evidenced by the number of calls and 
emails he had with Moneybarn. Its clear this matter caused him worry and upset at a time 
that was already difficult. For that, I believe £150 compensation is a fair and reasonable 
amount given the circumstances.I sympathise with the situation Mr J now finds himself in and I recognise he will be 
disappointed by my outcome however I hope he accepts my reasons for doing so. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Js complaint.
To put things right, Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should:
- Pay £150 compensation to Mr J for the trouble and upset caused;
- Remove any adverse information for October 2021 from Mr Js credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman