DRN-3331061
The complaint
Mr H complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus lost a 
payment he made to it and wouldnt attempt to trace the payment using the information he 
provided. 
What happened
Mr H says he made a payment to Cashplus of £178 from his credit card account he holds 
with a business I will call S in April 2021. He says the payment didnt reach his Cashplus 
account and so called it about the issue. Mr H says Cashplus wouldnt help him or try and 
trace a payment made to it for that amount. He says he has lost the £178 and spent about 
two hours in total dealing with Cashplus about this problem.
Cashplus says it asked Mr H on numerous occasions for proof of payment. It says Mr H 
providing the last four digits of his S account and the amount was not enough to try and 
trace the money. Cashplus says Mr Hs account didnt receive the money and says it made 
three calls to him about the complaint but needed the requested evidence before it could do 
anything to assist.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
listened to the first and main call between the parties and thought Cashplus ought to have 
taken further details rather than insisting on proof of payment. The investigator thought there 
were further wasted calls that couldnt be transferred when Mr H called Cashplus and that it 
didnt leave notes on Mr Hs file as it said it had. The investigator recommended Cashplus 
pay £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr H was caused.
Cashplus doesnt accept that view.
I asked both sides for further information.
Mr H has confirmed S has returned his money and says S told him it sent the money to the 
account details it holds for Cashplus.
Cashplus says it has carried out further checks and says S used the wrong account details. 
It says it needed those account details from Mr H and the payment evidence to carry out the 
required search.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and came to the provisional view that I didnt 
uphold this complaint and provisionally thought the problem was caused by S using incorrect 
details for Cashplus. I also thought that Cashplus made clear to Mr H at the outset of this 
complaint it needed proof of payment in order to investigate where the money went, and that 
Mr H didnt provide that evidence only a screen shot of his telephone which I thought was 
insufficient.
I listened to the calls between the parties and in particular the first call in which Mr H raised 
the issue of the missing payment. I appreciated Mr Hs concern and also his frustration about 
why Cashplus couldnt search its records for a payment received of £178. But I said I was 
satisfied that Cashplus made clear on numerous occasions during that and later calls that it 
needed proof of payment and that meant account details. I also appreciated that Mr H 
thought that Cashplus had made the mistake and that it was not up to him as he said to 
provide the evidence. So, I said I was satisfied that Cashplus made it clear what it required, 
and that Mr H didnt provide and still hasnt provided it with the information it required.
I was satisfied that the problem here appears to have been caused by S using incorrect 
account details and so I said I couldnt fairly hold Cashplus responsible for the original 
mistake. I appreciated that the investigator took the view that Cashplus could have done 
more to trace the money. But I disagreed and made clear Cashplus told Mr H what it 
needed, and it was then up to Mr H to provide it. I couldnt see what else Cashplus could 
have done without that information and found that the request was reasonable. I accepted 
the request would have meant Mr H providing further information, but I didnt think that 
request onerous and also thought S could have assisted him with any further information.
I appreciated that the investigator concluded that Cashplus could have made matters easier 
for Mr H by recording information on the case file and providing a telephone number that 
could reach the intended recipient. I accepted what the investigator said about those 
matters, but I didnt think they were the main parts of this complaint and was satisfied 
Cashplus made clear on a number of occasions what Mr H needed to provide and why.
Overall, my provisional view was that Cashplus wasnt responsible for Mr Hs missing 
payment which has now been returned to him. And I didnt think Cashplus acted 
unreasonably by requesting the evidence of the payment. I didnt consider the complaint 
handling or issue with the calls or notes justified any compensation.
Mr H has not replied to my provisional view and Cashplus accepts it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman