DRN-3255328
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold a Gold Added Value Account (GAVA) in 1999 by 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). The GA was later amended to a Gold Club Lloyds (GCL) Account 
in 2014.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says that he was led to believe it was a privilege to get a GAVA and that it would 
improve his credit rating. He says he didnt want it or need it.
Lloyds says it recommended the GAVA to Mr C and that he took it out based on the 
information and advice he was given.
This sale originally took place in 1999, and I wasnt there, so its not possible for me to know 
what was said at the time. I can only look at the evidence available today and base my 
decision on that.
Lloyds has provided evidence about the cost and benefits of the GAVA in 1999, and its 
records on Mr Cs use of the benefits.
Mr C had used free bank accounts before the sale of the GAVA, so he knew these were 
available. So, I think its more likely than not that Mr C knew he had a choice whether to take 
out the GAVA or not and he chose to do so based on the information and advice Lloyds 
gave him.
Lloyds has said it did provide advice, so it was required to give Mr C enough information 
about the GAVA to make an informed decision and to ensure that it was suitable for him.
And I think its more likely than not that Lloyds did so. I say that for the following reasons.
Lloyds has provided evidence that Mr C took out two loans just after opening the GAVA, and 
he would have received preferential rates on those because he held the GAVA. And the first 
statements that are available in 2001 show that Mr C travelled regularly and used the free 
£100 overdraft the GAVA provided. 
Travel insurance and better rates on loans and overdrafts were amongst the main benefits of 
the GAVA in 1999. So, in my view I cant say the GAVA was unsuitable for him or there was 
no reason why he might have taken it out. 
Mr C later went on to use a wide range of the benefits, so I think its more likely than not that 
he received enough information about the product as well.
Mr C says he was misled into taking out the GAVA as Lloyds said it was a privilege and it 
would improve his credit rating. 
As I said above I cant know what was said but I think its more likely than not that Lloyds told 
him the GAVA was a good product he could afford and that he would benefit from better 
interest rates on credit, as it had judged the product was suitable for him and Lloyds was 
trying to sell the GAVA to Mr C. 
But his credit rating would have been based on his financial position so I think its unlikely 
Lloyds would have told him the GAVA would improve his credit rating and Ive not seen any 
evidence that it did.
So, although I know Mr C will be disappointed, and I dont doubt his honest recollections, I 
think its more likely than not his memory is mistaken, and Lloyds didnt do anything wrong in 
the sale of the GAVA in 1999.
Later the GAVA was amended to a GCA in 2014. By this time Mr C was an experienced user 
of fee-paying accounts, so again I think its more likely than not that he knew he had a 
choice whether to make the amendment. And the evidence Lloyds has provided about his 
usage of the benefits shows he had information about the product, and it appears to have 
been suitable for him. 
So, in my view Lloyds didnt do anything wrong the conversion of the account to a GCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman