DRN-1324503
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined his claim 
for accidental damage under his buildings insurance.
What happened
Mr B had buildings and contents insurance including accidental damage with LV. He made a 
claim for damage to his garage and outbuilding walls. He said vibration from passing 
vehicles caused the cracks and engineers confirmed this. 
LV declined his claim because the damage wasnt caused by subsidence and it didnt meet 
the policy definition of accidental damage.
Mr B provided a documented opinion from engineers which said the claim should be 
considered as accidental damage. LV issued a final response explaining that damage 
caused over time wasnt covered under his policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that the policy document was clear in 
its definition of accidental damage and, as the vibration wouldve caused the damage 
gradually, it was fair for LV to decline the claim.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he had two reports confirming that the damage wasnt caused by 
subsidence, but he didnt really think it was accidental. Engineers confirmed it was caused 
by the state of the road, but Mr B felt LV was taking an easy option by declining his claim.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr B will be disappointed, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
Theres no dispute about the facts of the matter. Both parties agree that vibration from 
passing vehicles caused the cracks in the garage and outbuilding walls, so the claim is not 
for subsidence. Mr Bs engineer also said the damage was caused by vibration from passing 
vehicles but reported that it should be considered as accidental damage even though it was 
not caused by an impact. 
I can understand that because the damage wasnt deliberate Mr B and his engineer might 
expect it to be classed as accidental. But the engineer report only supports the decision-
making process  it isnt the deciding factor. It is Mr Bs responsibility to show that an insured 
peril has occurred, and it is LVs responsibility to show whether the policy excludes cover. 
So, it remains for me to decide whether LV declined Mr Bs claim fairly in line with the terms 
and conditions of his policy.
The policy defines accidental damage as, damage caused suddenly by external means 
which is not expected and not deliberate.
Repeated and ongoing vibration from passing vehicles eventually caused the walls to crack. 
I agree its not deliberate or, necessarily, expected. But it isnt sudden, and I dont think Mr B 
is claiming that it is. I think that if vibration from a single event, such as an earthquake, had 
caused the cracks then its likely the policy wouldve covered that as accidental damage. But 
ongoing road use doesnt fall within the definition of accidental damage stated in the policy.
The General Exceptions in the policy state that LV will not pay for any claim arising from, 
anything which happens gradually including deterioration or wear and tear,
settlement or shrinkage. 
Im satisfied that cracks in the walls caused by repeated and ongoing vibration from passing 
vehicles falls within the definition of anything which happens gradually. So, I think its 
reasonable for LV to say the damage isnt covered by the policy.
Mr B is understandably frustrated that his property has been damaged through no fault of his 
own. And its easy to see why he would want the party responsible for the damage to pay for 
the cost of repairs. But LV isnt the responsible party. I havent seen any evidence to suggest 
LV took an easy option by declining the claim. Expert opinion provided by both Mr B and LV 
along with the terms of the policy all point to LV making a fair decision. So, Im satisfied that 
LV has declined the claim fairly and in line with the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman