DRN-3678398
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined a claim he made under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B holds a travel insurance policy, with Aviva, as part of his packaged bank account. The 
policy provides cover for various pre and post departure risks. 
Mr B has explained that on 29 March 2021, he booked a holiday abroad. The holiday was 
due to start on 18 December 2021. However, a couple of days before Mr B was due to 
travel, the government of the country he was due to visit placed restrictions on visits.
The relevant government noted that all who wished to travel from the UK, were not permitted 
to do so  unless for essential reasons. A holiday wasnt considered essential. So, Mr B 
wasnt able to travel. 
I understand that Mr B was able to gain refunds for his flights, airport parking and 
accommodation. As well as for sports equipment hire. But Mr B wasnt successful in gaining 
a refund for transfers between the airport and pre-booked accommodation. In addition, Mr B 
was only to gain a partial refund for some Covid-19 testing he had needed to purchase. Mr B 
explained his loss was £147.69. So, he made a claim under this insurance policy for this 
£147.69, minus the applicable policy excess.
Aviva considered Mr Bs claim but declined it. 
On 22 February 2021, Aviva told Mr B, via email, that his claim wasnt covered, because his 
policy didnt provide cover where the event giving rise to a claim was something that was 
known, or the policyholder reasonably could be expected to have known when booking the 
trip. It considered that Mr B ought to have known he may need to cancel his trip (including 
airport transfers) and claim under his policy for this  given at the time he booked his trip 
there were UK government restrictions, prohibiting him for travel. And therefore, prohibiting 
him from making use of the trip and transfers. Aviva said Mr B wouldnt have known if, and 
when, these restrictions would be lifted.
Aviva also said that the airport transfers Mr B was claiming for were excluded from cover. It 
said this because when Mr B booked the transfers, on 29 March 2021, there were UK 
government restrictions in place on travel  meaning it was illegal to leave the UK on 
holiday. Aviva said Mr Bs policy didnt provide cover when this was the case. It referred to 
policy wording which said:
We wont cover
Any claim for cancellation if the advice or measures were in place or had been 
announced at the time you purchased your Pack or the trip was booked (which is 
later).
We wont cover
There is no cover for cancellation of our trip if your travel plans are disrupted 
because flights are cancelled or any government or authority closes their borders, or 
imposes restriction of  movement and these cancellations or restrictions were in 
place or had been announced at the time you purchased this Pack of booked your 
trip (whichever is later.
In terms of the Covid-19 testing funds, Aviva said a settlement couldnt be provided for this  
because the refund would be lower than the £50 excess Mr B would need to pay. So, Aviva 
confirmed it would not be accepting any part of the claim made. 
Mr B felt this wasnt fair. Mr B said the above policy wording quoted above was referring to 
the government restrictions in place when the trip was booked, being the same restrictions in 
place when the cancellation occurred. And that wasnt the situation here. When he had 
booked the trip the UK had travel restrictions in place. But these were lifted, and not the 
reason his holiday was cancelled. It was new, and separate travel restrictions from the 
government abroad, which gave rise to the claim. 
As Mr B felt the airport transfers should have been accepted, he felt the reimbursement he 
was seeking for the Covid-19 testing should be refunded too  as the cost for his claim was 
above the £50 excess.
Aviva maintained its position on the matter. So, Mr B referred his complaint to this service for 
an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint, and ultimately didnt think it should be upheld. 
Our investigator felt there wasnt an insured event under the policy that covered Mr Bs 
losses. The investigator also noted that the policy excluded cover for known events. And 
given there were Covid-19 restrictions at the time Mr B booked his transfers in March 2021, 
Aviva acted reasonably when saying Mr B could have been reasonably expected to know 
that Covid-19 could impact his travel plans. So, they didnt think Aviva had done anything 
wrong when declining the claim. 
Mr B didnt agree. He raised a number of points, including reiterating that the restrictions that 
came into force in December 2021, werent the same restrictions at those in place when he 
had booked the trip. Mr B also raised concerns about the way the policys features and 
benefits were marketed and sold online.
Because Mr B didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I appreciate Mr B feels strongly 
about this  its clear from his representations to this service. But I have considered 
everything the parties have said. And have explained the reasoning for my decision below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Aviva 
acted in line with these requirements, when it offered declined to settle Mr Bs claim. 
Ive reviewed Mr Bs policy documentation. On doing so, I can see it does provide cover for 
the losses resulting from the need to cancel a trip. But, as is common with insurance policies of this nature, for the loss to be covered, the cancellation needs to have arisen due to 
circumstances listed in the policy. In other words, an insured event.
So, for Mr Bs loss to be covered under the policy, Mr Bs cancellation claim needed to have 
arisen from one of the events listed. Ive considered these events, to see if any apply in 
Mr Bs circumstances. These events include situation such as the policyholder becoming ill, 
in situations of redundancy of being called for jury service. None of these events apply to 
Mr Bs situation. 
The only events with any possible relevance are the need to cancel a trip because a natural 
disaster happens. Or where, in the 31 days prior to the trip departure date, the Foreign, 
Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advises British Nationals against all, or all 
but essential travel to the relevant destination. So, Ive thought carefully about these two 
events. And Im satisfied that neither of those apply either.
It wasnt a natural disaster that happened and caused the cancellation. It was instead the 
introduction of government rules in the country Mr B was due to travel to, that stopped him 
travelling, and meant he needed to cancel the holiday. 
And the FCDO didnt advise against all, or all but essential travel in this instance. As Mr B 
has noted, it was the government in the country he was due to travel to, that issued rules 
that said no British nationals couldnt travel to the country  unless for a reason it has listed 
as essential. So, the loss doesnt fall under this insured event either.
Given the reason for Mr Bs cancellation wasnt due to an insured event, I dont find Aviva 
acted unreasonably in declining Mr Bs claim for the airport to resort transfers. The policy 
doesnt cover the loss Mr B suffered.
Aviva has noted that the partial refund of Covid-19 testing wouldnt be covered either, given 
it falls under the £50 excess. Neither party disputes this would fall under the excess amount 
of the policy. And as the loss would fall under the excess, this wouldnt be something Aviva 
would need to settle. So, I dont find it has acted unfairly here either.
Aviva also mentioned that the policy doesnt cover known events. And this has been 
discussed at some length by the parties. But these exclusions dont make a difference to the 
outcome of this complaint. There has to be an insured event for the loss to be covered in the 
first place. And it is only then that exclusions can be considered. On the basis there is no 
insured event in this instance, the exclusions arent relevant. And I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.   
Mr B has raised some concerns about the sale of the policy, and the way it was marketed by 
an intermediary online. But Aviva didnt sell the policy directly. It was sold by another party. 
So, I cant comment on the sale of the policy under this complaint  Aviva isnt responsible 
for it.  
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more in relation to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Rachel WoodsOmbudsman