DRN-2913839
The complaint
Ms O complains that Succession Wealth Management Ltd (Succession) didnt follow FCA 
rules when she went to them for advice. Ms O also complains about the service she received 
from Succession and feels she was badly advised.
Ms O would like Succession to waive the fee that she has been sent for the advice that they 
provided.
What happened
Ms O met with Succession in March 2019 for an initial meeting to discuss her investments. 
During the meeting, Ms O signed Letters of Authority allowing Succession to ask for 
information from providers where Ms O held assets.
Succession provided Ms O with company documentation including their Terms of Business 
and Fees Brochure and Ms O signed a Letter of Engagement following receipt of these.
On 29 July 2019, Succession issued a Recommendations Report which listed Ms Os 
investments and their recommendations on how to they would invest.
Ms O responded asking questions about her ISA investments and charges. Succession 
replied but Ms O did not feel comfortable proceeding and asked to cancel her contract with 
them.
Succession sent Ms O their bill for the work carried out to this point and Ms O complained 
about the service she had received.
Succession investigated Ms Os complaint and replied on 16 April 2020. They didnt think 
that they had done anything wrong and did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with Successions response, Ms O referred her complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators looked at her complaint. The investigator thought that Succession had 
acted fairly and did not uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Ms O has asked for an ombudsman to look at her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms O but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
wont be upholding the complaint. I know that Ms O feels strongly about her complaint and I 
will explain why I have reached this decision.
Ms O has raised various issues and I will cover them off in turn.
Succession did not send basic information until a few months had elapsed 
Succession did not disclose that they were tied to certain investment houses 
Some personal information and investment details were wrong in communication 
Succession completed information about her attitude to risk without her knowing 
Ms O feels that her complaint was dismissed without proper investigation and she had 
no alternative but to refer her complaint to the service
Charges incurred by Ms O
Succession did not send basic information until a few months had elapsed 
In her submission to the service, Ms O says that she spoke with an adviser at her building 
society and the Citizen Advice Bureau after she had met with Succession.
Ms O says that she should have received information about fees at her initial meeting to 
better understand how much the advice would cost. Succession say that this information 
was provided on 18 June 2019.
I have reviewed the documentation that is available, and I can see that Ms O signed a Letter 
of Engagement on 2 July 2019. This confirms that Ms O has received information on 
Successions Terms of Business and Services and Fees.
Ms O has said that she should have received information about fees at her meeting on 18 
March 2019. As I was not present at this meeting, I cant be sure what was discussed and 
what information about fees were disclosed. 
I can see that the following was included in the Recommendations Report sent in July 2019:
To ensure  that you remain  comfortable  with our recommendations  and the 
continuing  advice,  we would  like to refer  you back  to the meeting  summary  
document,  issued  to you on the 15 th May 2019.  This provides  a simplified  
breakdown  of our advice  and our understanding  of your current  circumstances.
I can see that the Terms of Business has the following information:
Initial discovery meeting
We offer an initial  meeting  at our expense  at our offices  to discuss  your situation  and 
how we might  work  together.  At the meeting,  we start gathering  information  about  
you, including  articulating  your financial  aspirations,  confirming  your attitude  to risk 
and ability  to withstand  loss,  and appreciating  any existing  financial  products  you 
may have.  We may ask you for your authority  to contact  product  providers  for more  
details  about  these  investments  and policies.
You are not obliged  after this meeting  to proceed  to any of the further  steps  below  
and where  this is the case,  any personal  data collated  during  the meeting  will be left 
with you.
The initial meeting was free of charge and I think that it is likely that Succession would have 
discussed what the next steps were. Succession say that Ms O signed a Letter of Authority 
at this time although the file does not contain a copy of this.The Letter of Authority gave Succession authority to act on Ms Os behalf to gather 
information from other providers about her assets and is needed for Succession to provide 
advice on investment financial planning.
I think that on the balance of probability, Succession told Ms O about the various stages and 
what would be chargeable. 
FCA Conduct of Business Rule 6.1.11R states:
A firm must provide a client with information required by this section in good time before the 
provision of designated investment business.
In this case, designated investment business was the provision of recommendations by 
Succession. 
I am satisfied that on the balance of probability, information was provided by Succession at 
the initial meeting about what the next steps would be. A meeting summary was issued on 
15 May 2019 and information on charges was provided on 18 June 2019 ahead of the 
Recommendations Report which was issued on 29 July 2019.
I think that Succession have acted fairly and Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
Succession did not disclose that they were tied to certain investment houses 
Ms O has said in her submission that Succession should have been clear from the outset 
that they were tied to certain investment houses.
I have looked at the Terms of Business and I cant see that Succession were tied to certain 
investment houses. I have read the Conflicts of Interest section and note that Succession 
have listed some areas where there may be a perceived conflict and have disclosed it.
These areas include discretionary management and the platforms in which investments are 
held. Im satisfied that appropriate disclosure has been made by Succession and I think that 
they have acted fairly so Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
Some personal information and investment details were wrong in communication 
Ms O has said that her name was spelt wrong and some investment details were duplicated. 
Ms O feels that these errors made her nervous in continuing with Succession and had lost 
some trust in their ability to get things right.
I can see that Succession have apologised for this and have attempted to resolve these 
errors. I cant say that these errors have resulted in any financial loss and the service cant 
look at hypothetical situations where something may have happened  we can only look at 
what did happen.
Succession completed information about her attitude to risk without her knowing 
Ms O says that she did not understand the level of risk involved and did not feel that she was 
listened to. Ms O has said that the suggestions and advice seem inappropriate and, in some 
cases, incorrect.
I have looked at the Recommendations Report that was issued to Ms O and I can see that 
the report contains details on Ms Os attitude to risk and her risk profile. It says:Thank  you for completing  a FinaMetrica  risk profiling  questionnaire,  the results  
of which  identify  your  natural  tolerance  to risk as being  balanced.
When  recommending  a suitable  risk category,  in addition  to your  natural  
preference  for risk, we have  considered  the following:
Capacity  for loss -your  ability  to cope  with investment  loss.
Tolerance  for loss - the amount  of risk you are willing  to take.
Need  to take risk to meet  your financial  planning  objectives.
Knowledge  and experience  of investing.
Following  our subsequent  conversation  about  risk and considering  your financial  
planning  objectives,  we agreed  that a balanced  risk profile  is most  suitable  for your 
whole  investment  portfolio.  
Please  refer  to the risk category  definition  in the Attitude  to Risk  appendix  to 
ensure  you agree  with our assessment.
Ms O has said that she did not complete the risk profiling questionnaire. Succession say that 
there is an Attitude to Risk questionnaire on their file and it is fully completed. I have not 
been able to view this document as it is not on file and I have had to rely on the information 
contained in the Recommendations Report.
The investigator has suggested that the report may have been completed during the meeting 
based on Ms Os responses to various questions. This may be the case, but I cant say for 
certain having not seen the document. When a business provides investment advice it must 
consider the consumers attitude to risk and provide advice that matches their 
circumstances.
I can see that Succession have recorded Ms Os attitude to risk in the Recommendations 
Report and it is summarised in Appendix 4 of the Report.
I think that Succession have assessed Ms Os attitude to risk and have provided information 
on what this means. Although I cant say for certain how this was collected, I think that 
Succession have fulfilled their responsibilities when assessing Ms Os attitude to risk.
Ms O feels that her complaint was dismissed without proper investigation and she had no 
alternative but to refer her complaint to the service
Ms O complained to Succession on 12 February 2020 and this was acknowledged by them 
the next day. Successions final response letter was sent on 16 April 2020 and covered off 
what it understood Ms Os complaint to be.
I have reviewed this letter and think that it shows that an investigation by Succession had 
been completed but it didnt think that it had done anything wrong. It responded to the points 
that it felt Ms O was complaining about.
The service cant tell a firm how it should run its business and I think that Succession 
attempted to respond to Ms Os complaint.
Charges incurred by Ms O
Ms O says that the work that was completed by Succession was erroneous and not what 
she was seeking.I sympathise with Ms O that she feels she was not made aware of fees and charges that she 
has been asked to pay but I think that Succession disclosed these charges in advance of 
doing the work. 
The service cant tell a business how much it should charge, and this is a commercial 
decision for them.
I think that the charges have been disclosed to Ms O and I think Succession have acted 
fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman