DRN-4434451
The complaint
K, a limited company complains about the way that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money (Virgin) handled its chargeback claim.
K wants Virgin to refund the amount of the chargeback and compensate it for the impact its 
delays have had on Ks director, Mr C.
What happened
Mr C bought a service from a third party which he says was never delivered. Mr C is 
unhappy that Virgin didnt reach out to him to get his side of the story and didnt do enough 
to support Ks chargeback claim. Mr C believes the third party is operating a scam.
Mr C says Virgin never contacted him about the disputed payment and that the third party 
never provided proof that it had delivered the services which K paid for. 
Virgin apologised for its lack of customer service and offered to pay K a total of £125.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ks complaint be upheld. In summary, she didnt 
think that Virgin made a mistake when it decided not to take Ks chargeback further after the 
third party submitted a chargeback defence.
Our investigator agreed that Virgin could have handled things better but thought that its offer 
to pay a total of £125 was fair. 
Mr C disagrees with the investigation outcome. He says Virgin didnt give him the chance to 
demonstrate that the third party hadnt provided the service that K purchased. Mr C says that 
if Virgin had given him the chance, the chargeback would have been successful. Instead, 
Virgin took six months to act which left things too late.
Our investigator went back to Mr C to say that the outcome of the chargeback claim doesnt 
necessarily mean K would not have a valid claim against the third party. Our investigator 
explained that her investigation considered whether Virgin had processed Ks chargeback 
claim correctly and in line with the rules laid down by Mastercard. 
Our investigator thought that even if Virgin had communicated better with Mr C, it would not 
have changed the outcome of the chargeback claim as the third party provided a reasonable 
defence. Our investigator explained that neither Virgin nor Mastercard were required to carry 
out a detailed investigation of the third partys defence as part of the chargeback claim.
Mr C doesnt think MasterCard understood the agreement between himself and the third 
party and he doesnt think its our investigators job to guess what may or may not have 
happened with MasterCard. Mr C cant understand why we think its okay for Virgin to take 
nine months to answer a complaint. Mr C has also asked whether Virgin will face a penalty 
for breaching FCA rules.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling about this matter so I hope he wont take it as a 
discourtesy that I have summarised Ks complaint in less detail and that I have concentrated 
on what I consider to be the key issues. 
To answer Mr Cs question about whether Virgin will receive a fine for breaching FCA rules  
the Financial Ombudsman is not the regulator. So, its not our role to punish or fine the 
businesses that we cover. Instead, we look to resolve individual complaints. 
Although Virgin is not obliged to submit a chargeback claim, we consider it good practice to 
do so where the scheme requirements are met and theres a reasonable prospect of the 
claim being successful. In Ks case, Virgin tried to help K by submitting the chargeback claim 
but the third party defended the claim. 
Mr C says the outcome would have been different had he been able to communicate with 
Virgin about the chargeback. However, despite asking Mr C for details of the evidence he 
wanted to provide to Virgin to support Ks disputed transaction claim we have not received 
anything from him. Without this supporting evidence, it is hard to say that the chargeback 
claim would have been successful if Virgin had received the evidence at the time. 
Im also not persuaded that further evidence from Mr C would have changed the outcome of 
the chargeback. This is because the third party provided reasonable evidence that it had 
partially provided the service to K and had almost completed work on part of what it was due 
to deliver to K. The third party also said that it had tried to speak to Mr C about the service 
but that hed stopped answering calls  something that Mr C seems to have admitted to 
Virgin. 
I can see that Mr C made the payment to the third party in late August 2022. Mr C asked 
Virgin to raise Ks chargeback at the end of September 2022. However, in an email sent by 
the third party to K detailing the services it could offer, the third party gave a time frame for 
delivery of the services of between four to eight weeks. I appreciate that Mr C says the third 
party was abusive to him when he called, but at that point, the eight week period was not up. 
As the third party indicated to Virgin that it was willing to discuss a partial refund with K, and 
that it had delivered much of what was agreed  I dont think it was unreasonable for Virgin 
to decide that it could not proceed with a service not received chargeback claim.
Although Mr C is unhappy with the length of time that Virgin took to respond to Ks 
complaint, complaint handling in itself is not a regulated activity which our service can 
usually consider complaints about. That being said, Virgin agrees that it could have handled 
things better for K. For this it has already paid K a total of £125. I consider this to be a 
reasonable amount to reflect the inconvenience to K when its director Mr C had to spend 
more time contacting Virgin than he otherwise should have. 
I understand that Mr C found the experience personally stressful and upsetting but the 
eligible complainant here is K  so it is only K to whom I can make an award of 
compensation. K is a limited company and therefore its own legal entity. K cannot feel 
distress so I cant make any award to K for any upset that Mr C has felt personally.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money has already done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman