DRN-3986137
The complaint
Mrs O complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has offered to settle a claim shes 
made on her Homesafe insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs O has a home insurance policy that includes cover for her contents. In May 2022 she 
made a claim after she lost her rings.
AXA accepted the claim and engaged a third-party contractor to discuss replacing the rings. 
However, Mrs O was unhappy with this. So, AXA offered a cash settlement instead.
But Mrs O says none of the options offered by AXA will provide her with replacement rings 
that are identical to those lost. Mrs O says a third-party contractor would not be able to 
replicate her bespoke rings and that an identical match cannot feasibly be achieved without 
the original design and moulds. 
Further to this, Mrs O says the cash offered as an alternative wont cover the cost of the 
exact replicas and she says vouchers are not suitable to replace bespoke rings. Mrs O says 
her experience so far with the third-party contractor wasnt good and she wasnt comfortable 
with the third party attending her home. Mrs O says her expectation was that AXA would 
reach out to the original jeweller, but as that hasnt happened, Mrs O wants AXA to pay the 
full amount required by the original jeweller to make replacements. However, AXAs stance 
remained the same so Mrs O made a complaint. 
AXA didnt uphold the complaint as it said the settlement offered was in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. Unhappy with this Mrs O brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said AXA had acted fairly 
and in line with the policy terms. 
Mrs O didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mrs O isnt happy with the options AXA has provided when settling her claim. I need to 
decide if it has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the policy terms and conditions 
when offering the settlement. 
In relation to contents claims, Mrs Os policy states as follows: 
How we will settle your claim - We may repair, reinstate or replace the lost or damaged 
property. If we cannot replace or repair the property we may pay for the loss or damage in 
cash or cash alternative (including vouchers and / or store cards). Where we can offer repair 
or replacement through a preferred supplier, but we agree to pay a cash or cash alternative 
settlement, then payment will not exceed the amount we would have paid the preferred 
supplier. If no equivalent replacement is available then we will pay the full replacement cost 
of the item with no discount applied.
AXA says that its third-party contractor will provide Mrs O with a computer assisted design of 
the rings for her approval before the rings are made. It says having spoken to the third-party 
contractor it is confident it can replicate exactly what Mrs O lost. But Mrs O says the rings 
are one-off designs and it seems very unlikely that anyone other than the original jeweller 
could produce an acceptable replacement.  So, AXA has made an alternative offer and its 
offered Mrs O a cash settlement as per its policy terms. But Mrs O says the options being 
offered to her are not putting her back in the position she was in before she lost her rings. 
She doesnt consider it reasonable that she should be offered a cash settlement that is less 
than the amount the original jeweller would charge to provide replacements.
I appreciate Mrs Os point and I sympathise with her situation. I think that losing something 
of such sentimental value can be traumatic and I understand Mrs Os distress. I know Mrs O 
believes nobody else but the original jeweller can make her bespoke jewellery. But an 
insurance policy would never fully replace the loss of something of such sentimental value. 
The role of the insurance policy is to compensate the consumer for his/her loss using 
money, or a suitable replacement. 
And thats what AXA has proposed. It points to the policy terms, which both parties accepted 
at inception of the policy and its asked Mrs O to either use its third-party contractor to agree 
a replacement or take the cash equivalent less the excess. I think these two options are fair. 
I cant see anything on file that would suggest that AXA couldnt replicate the rings via its 
third-party. AXA is confident it can and theres no report from an alternative jeweller or expert 
that says replication isnt possible. I know Mrs O has sent us examples from our own website 
where we have upheld similar complaints. But even though the examples are of upheld 
cases, I will say that each case has its own individual set of circumstances that will influence 
the outcome. And I cant comment on individual cases. I can only consider Mrs Os case and 
its specific circumstances. 
In this specific case, AXA says it can replace the rings. There is nothing on file other than 
Mrs Os opinion to suggest it wouldnt be able to do so. It has offered detailed drawings for 
Mrs O to review, and even if Mrs O doesnt want to meet the third-party, it has said it would 
arrange a meeting over a video call or phone calls to try and arrange a replacement that 
way. If thats not agreed, the policy states that a cash settlement will be paid if replacement 
isnt agreeable, but this amount will only be at the amount it would have cost AXA to replace 
the items. And this is what AXA has offered. I know Mrs O says this is not what her jeweller 
would charge, so she feels shes been short changed. But this offer is in line with what the 
policy terms set out, and I think thats fair. 
Based on the options provided by AXA, and the policy terms and conditions, I think its acted 
fairly with the claim settlement its offered. It has fulfilled its obligation under the policy and 
has offered a range of options to get this claim settled. Im therefore not asking AXA to do 
anything further. 
I note Mrs O has also commented about a call she had with AXAs third-party contractor 
where she felt the contractor was being deceptive. I was really sorry to read this. And while I 
have no reason to doubt Mrs Os account, Ive been unable to listen to the call in question, 
as it was with a third party. I have however read the file notes, and the other correspondence provided. I know this is an emotive claim for Mrs O, but Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that AXA has provided a poor service. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to ask AXA to do 
anything in this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman