DRN-4035574
The complaint
Ms C and Mrs K complain on behalf of their brothers (Mr Cs) estate about The Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society Limited, referred to as the business.
 
In short, they say the pay-out the estate received for two life policies shouldve been higher, 
based on how long they were maintained. So, to put things right, theyd like the business to 
reconsider the amount paid, and pay a higher amount. 
What happened
Mr Cs mother took out two life policies for him. The first was on 16 February 1968 (referred 
to as policy one) and the second was on 14 December 1973 (referred to as policy two). 
Mr C was the life assured on both.  
The first policy cost 50 pence, and the second policy cost 72 pence, paid every four weeks. 
The original sum assured was £136 for policy one, and £151.50 for policy two. 
In due course, following a claim on the policies resulted in the following pay-outs:
Policy one: £265.65 
Policy two: £327.76
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Both policies started before the introduction, in April 1988, of the Financial Services 
Act (FSA) 1986. Prior to this there were few rules relating to the sale of these types 
of policy. At the time, there was no requirement for a business to give financial advice 
or establish if a policy was suitable based on a consumers needs and 
circumstances. 
The policies had a fixed sum assured value. Although Ms C and Mrs K say their 
mother shouldnt have been sold the policies, they were taken out when mortality 
rates were much lower, especially for children, and funeral costs much lower than 
they are today. 
Although its not possible to say what was discussed at the point of sale almost 50 
years ago, it seems their mother wanted a policy that would pay out in the event of 
Mr Cs death, and this need was met by the policies because thats what they were 
designed to do. So, he cant say the policies were mi-sold. 
In the circumstances it wouldnt be fair to hold a lack of information against the 
business. 
Both policies paid a five yearly bonus payment to Mr C, the last being paid in 2018, 
when he received £22.10 for policy one and £35.97 for policy two. Unfortunately, the 
business no longer has a record of the payments made prior to 2003 but its likely Mr 
C wouldve receive bonus payments every five years. 
The business confirmed that the predecessor business made a commercial decision 
to pay the premiums on behalf of Mr C from 29 July 2008, for both policies, until 
2011, after which point the business continued to do so. The business also included 
the overpaid premiums to the final value. 
The business also added three uplifts, which it wasnt required to do, during the 
period that it was paying the premiums, even though it wasnt required to do this. It 
only did so because it felt it was fair.  
On balance, the business hasnt done anything wrong. It paid out a much higher sum 
assured on the policies than it wouldve been required to.  
Ms C and Mrs K disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. In summary, they made the following key points:
Whilst these policies wouldve been taken out before the introduction of the FSA 
1986, their mother wouldnt have known about these policies unless shed been 
given advice about them. At the time, it was usual for insurance men to sell policies 
on the doorstep.  
When Mr C was aged three, the family had moved into a nice three-bedroom council 
house with a garden, suitable for a family of four. They werent living in overcrowded 
Victorian slum conditions.  
The first policy was taken out in February 1968 when Mr C was aged 15, the second 
policy was taken out before his 21st birthday. He was still a student and no reason to 
think he would have a short life expectancy. 
The policies may have paid out for a funeral in the 1970s, but it wasnt enough to 
pay for a funeral in 2022. 
Any tax relief wouldve come from the government and not from the business.  
The bonuses were probably closer to £25 rather than £35, and they wouldve been 
paid to Mr C so they cant be sure what the amount was exactly. 
These so called penny policies were sold to working class people who could ill 
afford them. So, the insurance companies could now at least make a reasonable 
payout.   
As no agreement has been made the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Ms C and Mrs K say, Im unable 
to safely say that the business behaved unreasonably in the circumstances. I also cant say 
that it has done anything wrong by not offering to pay a higher sum assured in respect of the 
policies. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the strength 
of feeling Ms C and Mrs K have on behalf of the estate of Mr C about this matter. They 
have provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to 
be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, or undertake a forensic analysis of the evidence, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it 
doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent points in this case.
 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Ms C and Mrs K and the business, and 
reach what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of 
the case  Im not here to take sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and 
best industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for 
me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to 
have happened. 
I dont uphold this complaint, in brief for the following reasons: 
 
Because Mr Cs mother took out the policies in 1968 and 1973, before the FSA 1986 
came into force in April 1988, there were different requirements when giving advice. 
The common law duty to act with reasonable skill and care when making a 
recommendation probably applied, rather than the suitability requirement which 
applied afterwards. Therefore, I have to consider this complaint in relation to the rules 
and regulations as they were in 1968 and 1973.
At the time the business wasnt required to retain detailed paperwork about any 
conversations that took place. Therefore, its understandable that there may not be 
documentation to show what specific advice was given. Crucially, I note the business 
wasnt required to complete a fact find document (or a suitable alternative to know 
your customer) recording Mr Cs personal and financial circumstances, or issue a 
suitability letter detailing why the recommendation was made. So, I cant blame it for 
not having greater information regarding the sale of the two policies. 
Im also mindful that given the passage of time, it doesnt even have information 
about the bonuses paid pre-2003, but in the circumstances thats not something I can 
blame the business for.  
I appreciate what Mrs K says about it being pre-FSA 1986 when the policies were 
sold, and her mother not knowing about these policies unless and until she received 
advice. Be that as it may, prior to the relevant act coming into force, businesses had 
little or no obligation towards a customer to ensure that financial products, such as 
life insurance, were suitable. So, I cant blame the business for not doing things as 
Ms C and Mrs K may have liked  because it wasnt obliged to.  
In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think the plans were inappropriate at 
the time as it was what Mr Cs mother probably wanted, and thats why she took out 
a second policy a few years later. At the point of sale, they only needed to be a 
reasonable degree of fit and I think they were, based on the limited information 
available. And despite what Mrs K says, Ive seen no affordability issues either. 
Overall and on balance, I cant safely say that the policies were mis-sold. They did 
what they were designed to do  which was to pay out a fixed sum assured, 
regardless of whether or not this was used for funeral expenses. Despite what Mrs K 
says, Ive seen nothing to suggest that these policies were inherently wrong at the 
time. 
The business, on reflection has increased the sum assured to reflect the bonuses. 
Which means overall the policies are paying more than the estate of Mr C mightve 
expected. I also note the business paid the required premiums after a certain period. 
I dont think the business is required to do anymore. 
Despite what Ms C and Mrs K say, theres no reason for me to think that the 
business has done anything wrong by not paying a higher sum assured for each of 
the policies. I appreciate Ms C and Mrs Ks concerns with the situation and recognise they will be 
disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. But having given the 
matter careful consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman