DRN-2958221
The complaint
Mr S complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs decision to restrict his account while carrying 
out a review.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr S received a payment into his account. The transaction was flagged for 
review and HSBC restricted Mr Ss account. HSBC got in touch with Mr S about the 
transaction. Mr S confirmed he wasnt expecting the payment and agreed that HSBC could 
return it.
Around 25 October 2019, HSBC allowed Mr S to withdraw some of his salary money from 
his account. When HSBC reapplied the block to allow them to carry out their review, they put 
a full block on Mr Ss account in error. HSBC said they should have only limited debits from 
the account  but the block they placed refused credits into the account too. HSBC offered 
Mr S £150 compensation for this error in their final response.
HSBC completed their review and removed the block on 31 December 2019. 
Mr S said during the time his account was blocked, he wasnt allowed access to his wages 
as promised by HSBC and he missed loan payments which affected his credit file. Mr S also 
said not having access to his money caused him to gamble which affected his mental health 
overall.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. He said HSBC were entitled to 
review and block Mr Ss account while they reviewed it and thought the £150 compensation 
to recognise their error was reasonable. Our investigator also found that HSBC did allow 
Mr S to withdraw his salary money. And he was satisfied that HSBC updated Mr Ss credit 
file once the block had been removed.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he was only given access to one lot of money and no more  and 
he was charged numerous fines due to the late payments on his loan. Mr S also didnt agree 
that the block was removed in December 2019 and said it was blocked for around five 
months.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I know this will come as a great 
disappointment to Mr S, so Ive explained my reasons further below.
The block and review
HSBC placed a block on Mr Ss account in October 2019. HSBC explained that Mr S had 
received a payment of £20,000 into the account which flagged the review. Im pleased to see 
HSBC queried this payment with Mr S as part of their review. Mr S confirmed to HSBC that 
he wasnt expecting the payment and therefore agreed to send it back to the original sender. 
HSBC continued to carry out a full review of Mr Ss account.
HSBC are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC were acting in line with 
these obligations when reviewing and blocking Mr Ss account.
HSBC have confirmed that the block should have only prevented debits being made from the 
account. However, HSBC allowed Mr S to access some of his money to cover his daily 
expenses, so they had to fully remove the block to allow the withdrawal to be made. When 
HSBC reapplied the block, they added a full inhibit to the account in error. This meant Mr Ss 
account didnt receive any credits into it. HSBC recognised their error and offered Mr S £150 
compensation. I recognise Mr S doesnt think this is enough  but based on the 
circumstances of this complaint, I consider this amount to be a fair reflection of the distress 
caused by HSBC fully inhibiting Mr Ss account in error.
Access to the money
Mr S is unhappy that he wasnt able to access the money in his account. He said HSBC said 
he could access his salary money, but they only let him do this once. Ive considered the 
circumstances of the complaint and note that Mr S was able to withdraw money during a visit 
to branch. I appreciate after this initial withdrawal; Mr S didnt withdraw any further money. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that Mr S tried to withdraw more money and was refused, 
but Ive considered Mr Ss testimony  he said HSBC didnt allow him.
I recognise how frustrating it must have been for Mr S to realise he couldnt use his account. 
And I appreciate this would have put him in a financially challenging position because he 
didnt have access to his money. But a bank cant always guarantee that money in an 
account will be readily available as they have broader regulatory obligations with which they 
have to comply.
Im pleased HSBC did allow Mr S access to his money in October 2019, so I dont consider 
they fully restricted Mr Ss access to his money for the entire block. But even if they had, 
theyre entitled to do so based on their legal obligations. So, I cant fairly uphold Mr Ss 
complaint on this point.
How long did the review take?
While banks are entitled to carry out reviews, they must do so in a way which is in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account, and they shouldnt cause any unnecessary delays. 
Having reviewed HSBCs actions, Im satisfied they didnt cause any unnecessary delays.
The block was removed from Mr Ss account in December 2019. I recognise in response to 
the investigators view, Mr S says the restriction wasnt removed on this date, and he says 
his account was blocked for around five months. 
HSBC have sent screenshots of their internal system notes to show the block was removed 
in December 2019 and Ive also considered Mr Ss bank statements which show the account 
was being used after this date. Therefore, while I appreciate Mr Ss comments, I cant fairly 
agree that his account remain blocked after December 2019.
Late payments and credit file
Mr S has explained that the block meant he couldnt make payments to his HSBC loan and 
he was charged late payments because of it. Mr S also said his credit file was affected.Ive reviewed Mr Ss loan statement, and I cant agree that he has been charged any 
additional fees for making late payments. Im also satisfied based on the evidence that Ive 
seen that Mr Ss credit file was corrected by HSBC in January 2020. Therefore, Im satisfied 
that no adverse data has been recorded against Mr S in relation to this complaint.
Overall
Overall, I can appreciate why this would have been a distressing time for Mr S. Hes said it 
affected his mental health and anxiety and put him in a desperate position  he gambled to 
try and get money. I fully sympathise with Mr S, but in order for me to fairly uphold his 
complaint, Id need to be satisfied that HSBC did something wrong. And based on the 
circumstances of this complaint, and the evidence Ive received, I dont think they did. 
Ultimately, they were entitled to review and block Mr Ss account  and they did so in a 
timely manner. They gave Mr S access to his money on one occasion and offered £150 
compensation for an administration error they made in regard to the block. When Mr Ss 
account was unblocked, they rectified any potential issues with his credit file to ensure he 
wasnt adversely affected. So overall, Im satisfied with HSBCs actions and wont be asking 
them to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman