DRN-2019713
The complaint
Miss Q complains about incorrect information Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) 
recorded on her credit file.
What happened
Miss Q held a credit card account with Sainsburys. In September 2018 she was declared 
bankrupt and was discharged a year later in September 2019.
In January 2019 Miss Q contacted Sainsburys to inform it that it was reporting her 
bankruptcy incorrectly on her credit file and that she was continuing to receive letters about 
the outstanding balance.
Once Miss Qs bankruptcy was discharged, her creditors were made aware of this. However 
Sainsburys recorded this differently to her other creditors. It hasnt changed the account 
balance to zero or reported that it had been zero since the date of discharge.
Sainsburys initially said that it had recorded the information on her credit file correctly. But 
our investigator has provided it with some information which shows the information being 
recorded was incorrect. Sainsburys has now acknowledged that it was recording this 
information incorrectly, which appears to have been a wider issue and it is taking steps to 
correct this. 
Unfortunately as part of the work it is carrying out to correct this issue, Miss Qs account was 
temporarily reopened which led to her receiving a further statement more recently. 
Sainsburys has confirmed that Miss Q can ignore that letter and has offered £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its mistakes in reporting information 
incorrectly on her credit file.
Our investigator thought that offer was fair and reasonable. In short, he said that while 
Sainsburys had made an error in the information it had reported to Miss Qs credit file, it was 
now correcting this. And he thought £200 compensation fairly reflected the trouble and upset 
caused to Miss Q.
Miss Q disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same 
reasons.
There is no dispute that Sainsburys was recording incorrect information on Miss Qs credit 
file and Sainsburys has taken steps to correct that. We have suggested that Miss Q 
continues to monitor her credit file to ensure that it continues to show the correct information 
 as we would with all changes that are made. But I also think Sainsburys should take 
responsibility for this and for ensuring that its recording accurate data on Miss Qs credit file. 
So in addition to the changes I understand it has now made, I think Sainsburys should 
monitor the information it has recorded on Miss Qs credit file for an ongoing period which is 
long enough to ensure that the changes dont revert back  which I believe should be a 
minimum of six months.
Miss Q has said that this issue has caused her significant distress and inconvenience at an 
already inconvenient time and that the letters she has continued to receive from Sainsburys 
have caused her further upset. But our role isnt to punish Sainsburys  it is to consider the 
level of upset caused by its mistakes and consider an amount that puts this right. I realise 
that Miss Q believes this amount should be in the region of £500 but I agree with our 
investigator that £200 is sufficient.
The reason I say this is because, while I dont doubt Sainsburys mistakes have been 
worrying and frustrating, Miss Q was aware that she had been declared bankrupt and 
therefore that she wouldnt have to repay the sums being chased. And Sainsburys notes 
suggest that she had previously been told that she could ignore these letters. So I think she 
ought to have known that she didnt need to repay these sums. And there is no suggestion 
that the incorrect information on her credit file has caused her any detriment. So while I 
appreciate this experience must have been frustrating given the amount of contact she had 
to make, I think the £200 offered fairly reflects this.
I understand that Miss Q has said she was worried about the letters she was receiving  and 
I understand that Sainsburys is working on a fix to ensure she doesnt receive further letters. 
But there are no guarantees that further letters wont be sent to her accidentally until that fix 
is put in place. So to ensure that she is given peace of mind, I think Sainsburys should write 
to Miss Q setting out that she can ignore any further statements or correspondence in regard 
to this particular account.
Putting things right
Sainsburys should put things right by:
Updating Miss Qs credit file with the correct information if it has not done so already
Monitoring the information being recorded on her credit file to ensure that Sainsburys 
continues to report the correct information. I would suggest that this should be for a 
minimum of six months. Sainsburys should ensure that any searches it carries out in 
order to do this do not leave a recorded search on her credit file.
Sending a letter or email to Miss Q to confirm that she can ignore any further 
correspondence relating to this account.
Paying Miss Q £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her 
by Sainsburys mistake.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Sainsbury's Bank Plc should put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman