DRN-3966846
The complaint
Ms K complains that Capital Professional Limited, trading as Ascot Lloyd (to keep things 
simple referred as Capital in the rest of this decision) did not provide her with any financial 
advice in return for the fees she paid. She states that she has lost out financially as a result.
What happened
Ms Ks previous firm of financial advisers was acquired by Capital in
September 2020. Her personal information was transferred over in September 2020.
Capital sent Ms K a welcome document on 24 November 2020 telling her they had taken 
over. The document said that they considered that based on what they knew from her 
previous adviser their Connect service would most suit her needs going forward. 
With the welcome document, Capital provided a copy of their service and client
agreement. They provided 30 days for her to respond with any concerns about the client
agreement and said theyd assume she was happy with the terms if she didnt contact them 
within that period.
Neither Ms K nor Capital were in contact after this point until around August/September 
2022, Ms K then made a complaint to Capital about the lack of service provided.
Ms K contacted Capital complaining that she had paid their fees but not received any 
service. She pointed out that during this time her pension fund had dropped significantly and 
she had lost confidence in them as advisers.
On 10 November 2022, Capital issued their response on Ms Ks complaint. They admitted 
they had not been in contact at all since sending the welcome document in November 
2022.To resolve her complaint, Capital agreed to refund the fees she had paid in full - 
£2,396.95 and to pay her a further £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused, making 
a total of £2,596.95.
Capital did not respond to Ms Ks point about her pension fund dropping in value. Ms K did 
not accept the offer of settlement and referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator asked Capital to respond on Ms Ks point about it being responsible for her 
pension fund dropping in value. It apologised for not going into more detail in its final 
response and said the Connect service didnt provide a yearly review and if Ms Ks goals 
had changed it was up to her to contact them. They said they couldnt find any evidence of 
her contacting them to discuss this.
Ms K said her pension fund dropped by around £50,000 and whilst she expected to bear 
some responsibility due to her lack of communication, she also expected Capital to bear 
some responsibility for this financial loss, due its lack of communication too. 
Our investigator said that he could not fairly hold Capital responsible for the drop in the value 
of her pension fund. He found that Capital had provided Ms K with the service it told her in 
the welcome document it would provide her with. And it had also told her that it would treat 
her as having accepted this level of service, if it did not hear from her. Further, our 
investigator found that there was no evidence of Ms K indicating that she wanted to reassess 
her investment strategy. Finally, the investigator pointed out, that during the time in question 
investment markets had been volatile because of such factors as Covid 19 and the war in 
Ukraine.
Ms K didnt accept our investigators recommendation. She said she did not realise she had 
to respond to the glossy welcome document sent by Capital. She didnt feel it was enough 
for Capital to just to return the fees. Our investigator considered Ms Ks additional point, but  
did not change his view. 
Ms K asked for her case to be reviewed by an ombudsman and so her complaint comes to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems not to be in dispute that after the welcome document sent in November 2020, which 
Ms K acknowledges receiving, and before Ms Ks complaint in August/September 2022, 
Ms K and Capital did not contact one another. 
Ms K has accepted the full refund of fees. What is left for me to decide is whether Capital 
should pay Ms K more compensation on the basis that it is fully or partially responsible for 
her financial loss, that is her pension fund dropping. Ms K says this was caused by Capitals 
lack of communication. Ms Ks position is that had Capital assessed her investment needs, 
she would have reduced her exposure to invest risk and her fund would likely not have 
dropped as it did.
It is not clear to me whether Ms K is also saying that the amount paid by Capital for the 
distress and inconvenience caused is not fair and reasonable either. So, I have proceeded 
on the basis that I also need to decide this.  
Ms K acknowledges receiving the welcome letter. I understand she was also sent a client 
agreement. Capital has provided a copy of both documents, which I have looked at.
It appears to be accepted by both Ms K and Capital that Ms K did not sign and return the 
client agreement.
Looking at the welcome document, this said that Ms K only needed to contact Capital if she 
was not accepting the proposed proposition. The proposition was the Connect service.  
Ms K appears to acknowledge that she accepted Capitals new proposition to provide her 
with advice on the terms set out. But, even if she hadnt accepted it, Capitals refund of fees 
would put her back in the position that she would otherwise have been in.
Having not heard from Ms K, Capital proceeded on the basis that it could assume that Ms K 
was accepting its proposition and the terms of the agreement, particularly after the initial 30 
days given to challenge the terms was up.
I have thought about whether it was fair and reasonable for Capital to proceed in this way, 
Ms K not having given her explicit agreement to accept Capitals proposition and to be 
bound by the terms of its agreement. I think it was, given the information Ms K was sent.So, I have gone on to consider whether Capital provided Ms K with the service it said it was 
going to offer.
Under the What Can You Expect section, it said that the customer would receive a free, no 
obligation initial meeting to find out more about them and to discuss a reasonable 
arrangement as to how and when advice should be provided as well as agreeing to the 
terms. I think this was particularly pertinent in Ms Ks situation as she tells us that she had a 
different level of service with her previous adviser 
The paperwork Ms K was sent, did tell her that the Connect service she was assumed to be 
agreeing to was for a person who likes to take responsibility for your own financial planning 
but have the access to a team of professionals for specific advice when you need it.
This was in line with what Capital said in their welcome letter. 
The agreement also stated theyd provide the customer with two services under what you
receive. They said theyd provide access to The Portal (their client portal) and
quarterly newsletters. I understand Ms K had access to both services, although she did not 
use the portal. The correspondence also said Ms K would have access to other services on 
request and in some cases at a cost.
I think had Ms K wanted advice or to change her investment strategy, it was up to her to 
contact Capital about this  to request it. Although I can appreciate why she feels they 
should have made contact after sending out the welcome pack. However, the 
correspondence did make it clear, that the customer wasnt obliged to have an initial 
meeting.
 
Ms Ks real concern appears to be about Capital not doing what it said it would do. I can see 
that it didnt offer her the initial meeting. But I cant say that even if that meeting had taken 
place the outcome would have been any different, and its possible that Ms K would have 
had to pay extra for this service. Ms K was told about the level of service she would be 
receiving and tacitly accepted that level of service by not saying anything to the contrary.  
So, whilst, I appreciate that Ms K feels she missed the opportunity to change her pension 
fund investment strategy as a result of Capital not contacting her, I think it was up to her to 
contact Capital if she wanted to change the status quo. I note that fairly Ms K is prepared to 
accept some responsibility for not contacting Capital. But, looked at as a whole, I cannot 
fairly conclude that the financial loss Ms K says she has suffered is due to Capitals actions 
or omissions. I also cannot say that the reason she lost out was because she didnt reduce 
her investment risk.  Investments do go up and down, and with hindsight it is easier to see 
where a different decision might have been more beneficial.
Putting things right
I consider that Capitals offer of settlement is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It has 
offered to refund Ms K the fees it charged her for providing the Connect service. It has also 
offered to pay her £200 for its shortcomings. I think this is a fair amount given what I have 
said above.
Capital shall pay Ms K £2,396.95 if it has not done so already. As the method of payment of 
these fees was directly from Ms Ks pension, Capital shall repay the fees into 
her pension unless it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance, in which case it 
should be paid direct to Ms K.
Capital shall also pay Ms K £200 directly for the distress and inconvenience caused by this, 
if it has not done so already.My final decision
My decision is that Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd shall put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman