DRN-2421604
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy Acasta European Insurance Company Limited turned down a 
claim they made on their wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out wedding insurance with Acasta for their wedding which was due to 
take place on 21 March 2020. On 20 March the Prime Minister announced hospitality 
facilities would need to close that evening and not reopen the following day following the 
Covid-19 outbreak. Mr and Mrs D went ahead with the wedding ceremony but their reception 
was cancelled and theyve claimed for costs associated with that.
Acasta turned down the claim. Initially it said the policy didnt cover claims arising from a 
government act or exclusion. In subsequent correspondence it said Mr and Mrs D had 
provided contradictory evidence about the reasons for cancellation of the reception; initially 
Mr D said it was because the venue had cancelled but he later said it was because of his 
partners ill health. Acasta contacted the venue which told them it was Mr and Mrs D who 
cancelled.
Acasta said while the policy did cover cancellation due to sickness of the couple or a close 
relative that would need to prevent the wedding ceremony going ahead. In this case as Mr 
and Mrs D had gone ahead with their wedding, the costs theyd claimed for werent covered. 
It also thought Mr and Mrs D had taken too long to notify suppliers the reception had been 
cancelled. And as Mr and Mrs D hadnt accepted an offer to rearrange the reception date 
theyd caused the pecuniary loss they were claiming for. 
Our investigator looked at emails between Mr and Mrs D and the venue and was satisfied it 
was the venue which had cancelled the reception. And he thought this would fall within the 
section of the policy that covered cancellation due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious 
disease. He didnt think there had been any delay in informing suppliers of the cancellation 
and as the venue hadnt offered a refund, he didnt think they had a pecuniary loss 
recoverable from another source. And he didnt think Acasta could rely on the exclusion for 
claims arising from government regulation or act. He thought the claim should be paid in 
line with the remaining policy terms. 
Mr and Mrs D agreed. Acasta didnt accept his view. It thought the reason for cancellation 
was that Mrs D was unwell. So it was that section of the policy that would apply. It continued 
to feel the cancellation hadnt been notified in line with the policy terms. It didnt accept what 
the investigator said about the government regulation or act exclusion. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Acasta has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
In this case theres conflicting evidence on why Mr and Mrs Ds wedding reception was 
cancelled. Theyve provided a text exchange with their wedding co-ordinator at 17.16 on 20 
March. In that the co-ordinator says the venue are shutting their doors that evening 
(following the Prime Ministers announcement). But in correspondence with Acasta Mr D did 
suggest it was Mrs Ds ill health that led to the cancellation and provided a letter from her 
consultant in support of that. And I appreciate the venue told Acasta it was Mr and Mrs D 
who cancelled.  
To help resolve this we contacted the venue and asked them to clarify what happened. The 
venue said: For the original date of 21st March 2020, the government guidelines cancelled 
their wedding as we were put into a national lockdown the evening prior (20th March 2020). 
The couple were offered a postponement. 
The venue says the information they provided to Acasta about Mr and Mrs D cancelling 
related to their subsequent decision not to reschedule the date of the reception. On the basis 
of that information Im satisfied it was the venue which cancelled the wedding reception 
following the announcement from the Prime Minister about Covid-19. 
So it would be the cancellation due to infectious or contagious diseases section of the policy 
that would apply. That says:
We will pay up to the amount shown in the Summary of Cover for any irrecoverable 
expenses incurred by You in respect of Ceremonial Attire, flowers, photographs, caterers, 
transport, accommodation and the services from any other Wedding Services Supplier 
booked but not used as a direct result of the unavoidable cancellation or curtailment of the 
Wedding or Wedding Reception as the result of:
(a) the booked venue for the Wedding or Wedding Reception being unable to hold 
Your Wedding due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease, damage to 
the venue, murder or suicide at the premises or closure of the venue by the 
relevant authority
The policy defines wedding as a ceremony which creates a contract of marriage which is 
legally enforceable within the United Kingdom or a Civil Partnership registration or 
ceremony.. And it defines wedding reception as the social gathering, including room hire 
and catering, following within no more than 24 hours of the Wedding, at which the Wedding 
will be celebrated.
The policy doesnt define infectious or contagious disease so I need to consider the natural 
meaning of that phrase. Im satisfied Covid-19  a disease that can be passed easily from 
one person to another  would amount to an infectious or contagious disease. Im also 
satisfied there has been an outbreak of Covid-19. The policy doesnt say anything about the 
scale of the outbreak, only that there must have been one, which there has.I appreciate that outbreak wasnt at the wedding reception venue but I dont think it has to 
be. The policy term does include the words at the premises but I dont think thats intended 
to apply to the whole clause. It wouldnt make sense for it to apply to damage to the venue 
as the venue must always be the same as the premises. The policy doesnt define either of 
these terms. But it refers to the venue where the wedding or the reception are booked, 
meaning the place where they will take place. And logically, the reference to premises  
contained in the clause about cover for the venue being unable to hold the wedding  must 
refer to the same place.
Closure by the relevant authority comes after the words at the premises so those words 
dont apply to that. If the intention was that these words apply to the whole of this policy term 
(meaning an outbreak of disease would only be covered if the outbreak was at the premises) 
the policy wording could have made that clear but it doesnt. So in my view the correct legal 
construction is that the words at the premises only apply to murder or suicide not to the 
whole of that policy term.
Acasta argue this section of the policy only provides cover where a couple are unable to hold 
their wedding. And in this case Mr and Mrs D went ahead with the ceremony. But again I 
dont think thats the correct interpretation of the term. The policy provides cover for the 
unavoidable cancellation of the wedding or the wedding reception. I think its clearly 
contemplating two separate venues. 
Acastas interpretation would mean that cover wouldnt be provided where a couple were 
able to get married in, for example, a religious setting but werent then able to have their 
reception because the roof of that venue had collapsed. I dont think thats a correct 
interpretation. I think the intent of this clause is to provide cover where the booked venue for 
either the wedding or wedding reception is unable to host the event as a result of the 
circumstances set out within the clause. 
And Im satisfied the booked venue for Mr and Mrs Ds wedding reception was unable to 
hold their reception because of an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease. If theyd 
booked the same venue for their wedding ceremony that wouldnt have gone ahead either. I 
dont think its correct to say that that the claim theyve made isnt covered simply because 
the wedding ceremony was able to go ahead in a different location. Even if thats wrong, I 
dont think it would in any case be fair to turn down the claim on that basis. Its common for a 
couple to have a wedding ceremony at a different venue to the reception and I think its 
reasonable to expect the policy would provide cover in the event of a partial cancellation.
I appreciate the policy also excludes claims arising directly or indirectly from failure to notify 
the provider of any goods or service immediately it is found necessary to cancel or curtail the 
Wedding or Wedding Reception. But I dont think Mr and Mrs Ds claim does arise from any 
failure to notify their suppliers. The evidence Ive seen suggests they made contact with 
those suppliers either on the night of 20 March or early the next day. And while the policy 
doesnt cover a pecuniary loss recoverable from any other source I dont think this applies 
here. Mr and Mrs D say they approached suppliers for refunds and their request was refused 
and they didnt get a response from the venue. 
The policy says it doesnt cover claims arising from government regulation or act. Acasta 
believe that exclusion does apply here and says its been previously advised (in general 
terms) there is no issue with applying this. I dont agree. At the point the venue cancelled 
they were acting on a statement from the Prime Minister. The government regulations 
enforcing that statement didnt come into effect until the following day. So Im not clear this 
would be caught by the government regulation or act exclusion given that statutory force 
wasnt given to the Prime Ministers statement until 21 March.In any case the insured event set out above covers an order to close from any authority with 
the power to issue the closure direction  there is cover if the claim arises from closure of 
the venue by the relevant authority. Acasta argue that the exclusion for government act or 
regulation means the claim is not covered if the venue closed due to government 
restrictions. 
But any powers to close a venue are highly likely to be derived  directly or indirectly  from 
government regulation or acts. Its difficult to see a situation in which a venue is closed by a 
relevant authority that isnt using powers derived from a government regulation or act. 
Acastas interpretation either narrows the scope of the insuring clause considerably, or 
requires additional wording to be read into the exclusion so that it does not apply to a 
government regulation or act which results in the closure of the specific venue. If the 
exclusion clause was intended to cover government regulations or acts closing venues, it 
could have said so, but it doesnt make this clear.
Either way, the effect would be to give cover with one hand (the insuring clause) and then 
take it away with the other (the exclusion clause). The legal position is that the insuring 
clause and exclusion clause need to be read together.  If either clause is looked at in 
isolation, the consumer would or would not have cover, depending on which of the clauses 
one considers. In my view, it would not be a fair outcome to say the cover given by the 
insuring clause is taken away by the exclusion. 
So for the reason Ive explained I dont think Acasta has fairly turned down this claim and Im 
therefore upholding this complaint. 
Putting things right
To put things Acasta should settle the claim and pay Mr and Mrs Ds losses in line with the 
remaining policy terms, together with 8% simple interest from the date the claim was made 
until the date its settled. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Acasta European Insurance Company Limited will 
need to put things right by doing what Ive said in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman