DRN-1312863
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Miss H. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002 alongside a store credit account. Miss 
H was sold the policy over the phone after her account had already been set up.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss H didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Unfortunately, AXA doesnt have a recording of the call - or a call script - from when the PPI 
policy was sold. And Miss H doesnt seem to have a particularly strong memory of the call 
either. Thats not that surprising though given how long ago this took place. But from what 
we know about AXAs sales practices at around this time, I think its more likely than not that 
the telephone agent would have been prompted to make clear to Miss H that the PPI policy 
was optional. And as the sale took place after shed applied for her account, I think she 
would have known that she didnt need to agree to take the PPI to get her store card. 
So I think its most likely that Miss H actively decided to take out the PPI policy knowing she 
could choose not to. But I can understand why she may not recall this now.
From what Ive seen, I dont think that AXA recommended the PPI to Miss H. This means it 
didnt have to ensure that it was suitable for her. But it did still need to give her enough 
information so that she could decide if it met her needs. I think its possible that AXA could 
have given Miss H better information about the policy than it did. But I dont think better 
information would have changed her mind about buying the policy. I say this because:
 
Miss H appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions and limitations.
 The policy would have paid out in addition to Miss Hs other means and, potentially, 
for much longer than these would have lasted. So I think she would have valued the 
extra security the policy gave her.
 
I cant see any real reason why the policy wouldnt have been affordable for Miss H. 
And as she paid the policys premiums monthly, she could have cancelled it if it no 
longer met her needs.
 
So I dont think that Miss H has lost out by anything that AXA may have done wrong when it 
sold her this policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss H has said about why she thinks the policy was mis-
sold, but Im afraid this hasnt changed my opinion that her complaint shouldnt be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint against AXA France IARD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman