DRN-3970030
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) 
unfairly declined a claim under his pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H took out a pet insurance policy with C&G in January 2021 for his dog whom Ill call F.
In April 2021 Mr H took the dog to the vet because F had become lame on his left hind leg. 
Mr H started giving F supplements which seemed to improve his condition. In July the 
following year the dog was referred to a specialist. In August 2022 the dog underwent 
surgery to treat cruciate ligament rupture. Mr H made a claim to C&G for the cost of this 
treatment.
After looking at Fs veterinary history, C&G declined the claim. It said according to the 
specialist F had a two-year history of left hind limb lameness. It said that meant the condition 
had started before the policy had been taken out and was excluded from cover.
As Mr H was unhappy with this response, he brought a complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator recommended that C&G should pay the claim in line with the policy terms and 
also pay Mr H interest on the settlement. 
C&G has asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy, like many other pet policies, doesnt cover pre-existing conditions. It says:
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition.
The term Pre-existing Condition is defined as any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition 
and/or Associated Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms 
of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Clinical Signs are defined as any observable changes in Your Pets normal healthy state, 
condition, appearance, bodily functions and observed by You or Your Vet either visually, 
diagnostically or otherwise.
Symptoms are defined as any change in Your pets normal healthy state, conduct or 
appearance.
So it is not necessary for any condition to have been diagnosed for it to fall within this 
definition but the symptoms which appear before the start of the policy or within the waiting 
period must be a clinical sign or symptom of the condition claimed for. 
I think this exclusion was clear. So, Ive gone on to consider whether it was reasonable for 
C&G to apply it to decline the claim. As a general principle, where an insurer relies on an 
exclusion, the onus is on them to show it was reasonable to apply it. That means C&G 
should establish that Mr Hs dog had clinical signs or symptoms of the cruciate disease in 
order to rely on this exclusion. With this in mind Ive looked at the history of the dogs 
previous visits to the vet.
Mr H had been taking his dog to the vet since February 2018. Theres no mention of a 
problem with the left hind leg until May 2021 when F was seen by the vet because he had 
been lame on that leg. The vet noted reduced mobility in left stifle and painful. The vet 
advised that F be referred to a specialist for investigations in case of meniscus tear, still 
cruciate ligament or osteochondrosis.
Mr H took F back to the vet in July 2022. The vet noted that F was still lame in his left hind 
leg and referred him to a specialist. The specialist noted that F had presented on 9 August 
2022 with a two-year history of left hind limb lameness. F was operated on the following day.
Mr H disputed that F had had a two year of lameness in his left hind leg. So our Investigator 
asked the specialist to clarify this. In response he said hed gathered the duration of the 
lameness from the history hed taken from Mr H and from Fs medical record. He went on to 
say that:
Radiographs from May 2021 suggested already a chronic cranial cruciate ligament disease 
with marked degenerative changes at that time. This process takes time and [breed of dog] 
are particularly known for very chronic partial tears before they may become clinically 
apparent. 
He went on to say that he might have misunderstood Mr H and over-estimated how long F 
had been lame but he thought the May 2021 radiographs remain a strong evidence of a 
chronic process affecting the left stifle back then.
I dont doubt the specialists assessment that the disease might well have been developing 
from before the policy was taken out. But the key point is that under the policy wording 
clinical signs and symptoms of the disease must have been observed by either Mr H or a vet 
and there isnt any evidence of that. The specialist has confirmed that the condition can get 
very bad in Fs breed of dog before it may become noticeable. 
The specialist didnt recall all the details of the first consultation with Mr H and said it was 
possible hed made a mistake in his records.
On balance I think the reference in the vets notes to F having had a two-year history of 
lameness in the left hind leg is insufficient evidence that there were clinical signs and 
symptoms of lameness in that leg before May 2021. There are no vets notes prior to the 
policy being taken out in January 2021 that provide any evidence of such lameness in that 
leg. In the absence of such medical records the only person who would have been aware of 
such an issue is Mr H and he says there were no such clinical signs or symptoms.
Ultimately, its not the role of this service to determine exactly when symptoms of a particular 
condition first appeared. My role here is to decide whether the insurer has reached its 
decision fairly and reasonably based on all the evidence. I dont think it did.Taking everything into consideration, Im not satisfied that C&G fairly declined the claim in 
line with the policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
settle the claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy; 
If Mr H has already paid any part of the sum claimed, pay simple interest of 8% on 
such sum from the date his claim was made until settlement.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers it is required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much it 
has taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if Mr H asks for one so that 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman