DRN-3554809
The complaint
Miss E and Mr L complain that National Westminster Bank Plc wouldnt agree to remove 
Mr L from their joint mortgage. And that it charged an early repayment charge when Miss E 
took a new mortgage from another lender instead. 
What happened
Miss E and Mr L took out their mortgage in 2019. They borrowed £141,000 over 35 years on 
repayment terms. They took an initial five year fixed rate, expiring in 2024.
Miss E and Mr L later separated and Mr L moved out of the property. They agreed that 
Miss E would take it over and she applied to NatWest to remove Mr L from the mortgage and 
move it into her sole name.
NatWest refused the application. It said that because Miss E had taken grants from the 
government self-employment income support scheme (SEISS) during the coronavirus 
pandemic, it could not consider her application. Its policy at that time was not to consider the 
income of a self-employed borrower who had made use of the scheme, on the basis that it 
was an indication their income had been affected by the pandemic. It said this meant that 
there was more risk they wouldnt be able to afford the mortgage in future.
A few weeks later, in August 2021, NatWest changed its policy. It would now consider 
income from self-employment where a grant had been taken. The adviser Miss E had 
spoken to got back in touch with her to see if she wanted to renew her application. But by 
then Miss E had applied to another lender and felt committed to that application. She moved 
the mortgage to a new lender in her sole name, paying an early repayment charge (ERC) to 
do so.
Miss E and Mr L complained that NatWest had refused the application to remove Mr L. They 
didnt think it was fair that NatWest refused to take into account Miss Es income because 
she had taken SEISS grants. She said her income had been impacted in the early days of 
the pandemic, but was recovered and sustainable by the time of the application. She said 
NatWest should have considered her circumstances rather than refusing. And she didnt 
think it was fair that NatWest charged an ERC on the redemption of the mortgage when she 
had no choice but to go elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This mortgage was taken out in 2019. That means that, under the rules of mortgage 
regulation, NatWest has to carry out an affordability assessment when making a material 
change, such as adding or removing a borrower.
Under the rules relating to affordability assessments, the regulator requires NatWest to have 
a policy which, among other things, sets out the sorts of income it does and doesnt take into 
account.
Theres a broad discretion within the rules about how an affordability assessment is carried 
out, and what sorts of things a lender can decide to accept or not accept. NatWest is 
required to have a policy for what it takes into account, and apply it  and not to lend where 
a mortgage isnt affordable. But within those parameters, it has a broad discretion.
As a result, different lenders have  within the rules  different lending policies and different 
risk appetites. Some lenders are more willing to take risks than others; some lenders take a 
different view of the same income. And so just because two lenders reach a different 
decision on the same application, that doesnt mean that either was wrong  it just means 
that they each reached a reasonable, but different, outcome. This means that theres choice 
and competition in the lending market.
In this case, NatWests policy at the time of Miss Es application was that it wouldnt accept 
income from a self-employment business which had been in receipt of an SEISS grant (other 
than the very first grant at the start of the pandemic). Its reasoning for this is that in taking a 
grant, a self-employed person would have had to certify that their income had been 
adversely affected by the pandemic. 
NatWest took the view that, at this time, there was still much uncertainty about how long the 
pandemic would last, what further restrictions there might be, and their impact on the 
economy and on individuals. It decided that if someones business had been impacted by 
the pandemic or lockdown restrictions in the past, it was more likely they would be affected 
again in the future. And it wasnt prepared to accept that increased risk when considering 
whether to lend.
That was a reasonable position for NatWest to take. It was within the regulators rules  
because NatWest had, and followed, a policy on what sorts of income it would and wouldnt 
accept. 
And in those circumstances, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly in refusing Miss Es 
application in July 2021. It followed its policy, and applied it to Miss Es application. It had 
reasonable concerns that if Miss E had been impacted in the past, she might be again in the 
future  and it wasnt prepared to take that risk.
This wasnt new lending  Miss E and Mr L already had the mortgage. But adding or 
removing a borrower for a mortgage taken out after 2014 requires an affordability 
assessment. Taking Mr L off the mortgage means it would become solely dependent on 
Miss Es income, and would leave NatWest with one less person to recover payments from. 
So NatWest needed to consider whether the mortgage would be affordable for Miss E on her 
own  and, as she fell outside its policy, it refused her application. That wasnt unreasonable 
at the time.
Shortly afterwards, NatWest changed its policy and got back in touch with Miss E to see if 
she wanted to apply again. But she didnt  by then, shed secured a mortgage with another 
lender and had paid a fee, so she didnt want to lose that fee and re-apply to NatWest when 
her application might still not be granted. I can understand why she took that view.
However, that meant that Miss E and Mr L had to pay an ERC when the old mortgage with 
NatWest was paid off. The mortgage was on a fixed rate until 2024, and ending the fixed 
rate early involves paying an ERC. Thats clearly set out in the mortgage offer they were 
given in 2019.
An ERC isnt a penalty for breach of contract. Its the fee that has to be paid in return for exercising the right to end the contract early. In order to offer fixed rates, NatWest raises 
funds to lend. It has to cover the costs of the funds it has raised, and expects to do so via the 
interest it receives on the funds it lends out in turn. Where a mortgage ends early, it will no 
longer receive that interest income  and so the ERC compensates NatWest for the cost of 
the mortgage ending early, in return for it agreeing to allow that to happen.
That means that when Miss E and Mr L paid off their mortgage, the ERC was properly and 
fairly charged. NatWest made a fair lending decision in not agreeing to Miss E taking the 
mortgage over on her own (a decision it was later willing to revisit). It did not have to grant 
the application  and if they were unhappy with that, Miss E and Mr L were able to pay this 
mortgage off and move elsewhere, subject to paying the charge for doing so. I dont think I 
can fairly ask NatWest to refund the ERC.
Miss E also says that NatWest should have told them what its policy was. But theres no 
obligation for it to do that. NatWest has many policies, many of which will not affect most 
customers. And policies change frequently (as this one did). NatWest wasnt required to tell 
Miss E and Mr L what its lending policies were until they made an application. And in any 
case, I dont think this made any difference  if Miss E and Mr L knew this was the policy, 
they would still have needed to go elsewhere and pay the ERC. So the outcome would have 
been the same.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman