DRN-3605581
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc suspended his online account access when he 
could not answer its question about a payment instruction on his account. 
What happened
The third-party on Mr Ls account tried to make an online payment for £4,000 on 4 February 
2022. It was flagged by HSBCs fraud team and blocked. HSBC contacted Mr L but he 
couldnt provide the information needed and asked the bank to contact the third party on the 
account. In the meantime the third party visited a branch to make the required payment but 
left without doing so as she didnt want to give information requested. Mr Ls online banking 
access was restored the next day. Mr L wants an apology as he feels the banks staff were 
incompetent; and compensation for his, and the third-partys, wasted time.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. She said HSBC applied the block as Mr L 
could not confirm enough information about the recipient. The payment was then reversed 
and account access suspended. But HSBC did this to protect Mr Ls account, as it is entitled 
to. She said HSBC accepted it may have caused inconvenience and apologised for this, but 
it had not acted in error. The regulator requires it to protect its account holders form possible 
financial crime.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr L said HSBC made an error when it suspended his 
account. He knew the recipient and confirmed this to the bank. He told HSBC the transaction 
was authorised and that he did not want any fraud investigation to go ahead. There was no 
question regarding his identity at the time of the call.  Our investigator re-iterated that the 
bank has to follow the processes and policies it has in place to prevent fraud, and there are 
often instances of fraud where an account holder initially believes the recipient to be known 
and genuine.
Mr L asked for an ombudsmans review. He said if a customer has been verified the bank 
must respect their wishes. HSBC ignored his instructions. And he thinks its actions breach 
the Mental Capacity Act 2005 and his rights under Article 8 of the Human Rights Act 1998. 
These laws must override any bank policies.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having do so I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint. I will explain why.
In simple terms, the legal position is as follows. Where money is held on deposit, the
relationship between a customer and their bank is primarily that of debtor and creditor. When
dealing with a customers order to make a money transfer the bank acts as the customers
agent in executing the instruction. An agent owes a principal a duty to exercise reasonable
skill and care in carrying out the principals instructions. So, a bank has a duty to its
customer to take reasonable care when making such a payment.
With this in mind, a bank is under a duty to refrain from making a payment if it has
reasonable grounds for believing, for example, that the instruction relates to fraud or any
other criminal act. Given the banks obligations to protect its customers from
potential fraud or scams, it can be expected to make reasonable enquiries including 
but not limited to  the circumstances surrounding the payment instruction.
Against those obligations however, the bank also has a contractual duty to execute a valid
and proper order to fulfil its customers instruction.
In this case the online payment request triggered fraud checks so HSBC wanted to find out 
more about the payment. And Mr L was unable to answer the specific question HSBC had 
about the beneficiary (their name). HSBC asked if the third party who had set up the 
payment could call, but Mr L rejected this solution saying she would be too busy. In these 
circumstances I find it was reasonable for it to suspend his account access until the issue 
was resolved. Mr L was irritated he then received a text from the fraud team but the bank 
later explained it did not have a telephone number on record for the third party. I cant see 
there were any issues with customer verification as on the inbound call HSBC acknowledges 
he has come through voice-verified. 
Mr L says he told the bank the payment should go through and there should be no fraud 
investigation. But the bank has an obligation to process all its transaction in line with its fraud 
prevention policies and section six of the terms and conditions of the account sets out its 
rights and obligations in this respect. I dont find it did anything that breaches its agreement 
with Mr L. Mr L could not provide the information it requested so I find its actions were 
reasonable.
In terms of Mr Ls point about HSBCs compliance with two different pieces of legislation, it is 
for the Courts to determine if a business has acted unlawfully. Our role is to decide whats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of each particular case. In reaching that 
decision, we will consider various factors including relevant law and what we see as good 
industry practice from the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not HSBC has breached the Mental 
Capacity Act 2005 or Article 8 of the Human Rights Act 1998, Im required to take them into 
account, if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case. But for the reasons Ive set out above, from what I 
have seen Im satisfied that HSBCs actions were fair and reasonable. It follows I am not 
instructing HSBC to take any further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman