DRN-1584647
The complaint
Ms O is unhappy that Capital Home Loans Limited ("CHL") didn't extend the term of her 
interest-only buy-to-let ("BTL") mortgage and then sold the property at auction, leaving a 
shortfall in the mortgage balance. 
What happened
Ms O bought the property in June 2007 for £65,000. She borrowed £58,500 on an interest-
only basis, with the term of the mortgage set as 11 years.
CHL wrote to Ms O at various times to remind her the mortgage term was due to end on 28 
June 2018.
In February 2018 Ms O contacted CHL to discuss repayment options. CHL told her she'd 
need to seek financial advice as it was a closed mortgage book. However it said it may 
consider short extensions to allow a remortgage or property sale to complete.
In March 2018 Ms O contacted CHL again. She said she was going away for three months, 
wouldn't be back until 21 June and hadn't yet got a repayment plan in place. CHL reiterated 
that it would only consider an extension if there was a plan in place, just to allow time for it to 
complete.
Nothing further happened until 31 May when Ms O asked for a long term extension as she 
was unable to repay the mortgage. That was turned down.
Over the following months there was correspondence back and forth between CHL and Ms 
O, with Ms O asking for various different term extensions, and CHL confirming it wouldn't 
grant them. The property was noted to be in poor condition (later it was confirmed to be un-
tenantable) and in negative equity. CHL decided the best course of action was to place the 
property with Receivers.
There was further back and forth, with Ms O appointing an estate agent to sell the property 
and so CHL held off further action so that could be progressed. CHL said it needed various 
bits of information in writing from the estate agent. But despite chasing it up, the information 
wasn't received from the estate agent and so the Receivers were told they could proceed in 
November 2018.
As the property wasn't in a condition to be rented out, nor was it likely a mortgage would be 
granted on it, the property was placed in an auction. It sold for £37,000 and the sale 
completed in March 2019 which left a shortfall of over £28,000.
Ms O complained to CHL and the Receivers, and both rejected her complaints. Ms O 
referred her complaint about CHL to this service saying she was a loyal customer for 11 
years without missing a payment, and CHL should have allowed a refurbishment to be 
completed before selling the property.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. He said CHL hadn't done anything wrong in not 
allowing Ms O more time. Ms O didn't agree and so it's been passed to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I trust Ms O wont take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
The root of the complaint is that Ms O wasn't ready to repay her BTL mortgage when the 
term ended. Its important to bear in mind that Ms O wasn't living in this property, so she 
wasn't going to be made homeless by the sale of the property. Its also important to bear in 
mind that Ms O agreed to repay the debt at the end of the 11-year term when she took the 
mortgage out in June 2007. She was obliged to do so but didn't - despite fair warnings in the 
run up to the term ending - and thats the starting point in determining whats fair in this 
case. 
As Ms O knew the property was in a poor condition it would have seemed prudent to have 
planned for the term end date in advance. Ms O has said she was a good customer as she 
never made a payment late in the 11-years she held the mortgage. Unfortunately Ms O 
has made a late payment to her mortgage and it was the most important one. It was the one 
where Ms O had promised to repay the entire mortgage debt to CHL by 28 June 2018. The 
contract she entered into was that she would repay the outstanding debt in full by that 
precise date. It wasnt that she'd repay it when the property sold at some unspecified point in 
the future. 
This was never a rolling mortgage agreement; it had a set end date and once that date 
passed CHL was within its rights to immediately seek possession of the property. Instead, it 
tried to work with Ms O allow her time to remortgage or to sell the property herself. 
The property was valued and whilst the valuation figures werent exactly the same as each 
other, thats not unexpected. But the valuers were in broad agreement as to the poor 
condition the property was in. CHL is required to get independent valuations and follow them 
in deciding the best way to sell the property. Thats what it did. It relied on the opinions of 
properly qualified professionals. I dont think it did anything wrong here.
A lender should try to get the best price it can. But it shouldnt hold out too long for an 
unrealistically high price while interest on the debt mounts up. That isnt always an easy 
balance to strike, but I dont think CHL got it wrong in this case.
The property was noted to be uninhabitable and there was a later break-in at the property. 
This wasn't a property that it would have been prudent for CHL to hold on to, to try to 
achieve a higher price on the open market. There's a limited market for a property like that, 
and the buyers active within that market are generally found at auctions. Having considered 
everything I don't think CHL acted inappropriately when it decided to go straight to auction 
with this property, as any time on the open market could have led to further deterioration in 
the condition of the property. It needed to be sold quickly and an auction is generally the 
best place to achieve that.
I've no reason to believe CHL has any interest in keeping Ms O in debt as she's claimed, nor 
that it decided to sell the property at auction to stop her selling the property for a large 
enough amount that the mortgage would have been repaid in full. That simply doesn't make 
sense. Despite Ms O's beliefs otherwise, it wasn't in CHL's interests for the property to sell for less than the outstanding mortgage balance. I'm sure it would much rather have received 
all the money back that Ms O owed it at the time of sale
Having considered everything I'm satisfied CHL did nothing wrong here, and therefore I don't 
uphold this complaint. On that basis there are no grounds for me to order the shortfall be 
written off or for compensation to be paid to Ms O.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
 
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman