DRN-4182841
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) treated them unfairly 
and caused delays. They say this resulted in them having a larger shortfall debt after their 
property was acquired by their local council. They ask that the shortfall debt is written off or 
significantly reduced.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T had a mortgage with Halifax. They noticed problems with the property and 
contacted the local council. The council placed a dangerous buildings notice and statutory 
works order on the property in 2016. In 2017 it issued a compulsory purchase order. 
Mr and Mrs T say the council paid £5,000 compensation for the property in 2022. They owe 
a shortfall debt of about £86,000 to Halifax. They say its unfair for Halifax to ask them to pay 
this. They dispute the amount and say delays by Halifax mean the debt is more than it 
should have been. They say if Halifax had acted on their requests in 2016 theyd have repaid 
the shortfall debt by now.
Our investigator said Halifax hadnt acted unfairly. It had given due consideration to Mr and 
Mrs Ts requests in 2016. It didnt have to agree to their requests. Our investigator said 
Halifax applied the compensation to the mortgage account when it was received from the 
council. He said Halifax was entitled to apply interest to the outstanding balance and to ask 
Mr and Mrs T to repay the shortfall debt. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman reconsider the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs T say they were advised by their solicitor in July 2016 to ask Halifax for a calling 
up notice (a notice to repay the debt owed). They say this would have allowed them to 
include the shortfall debt in a legal agreement with their creditors to pay back part of what 
they owe over a set period. Mr and Mrs T say if theyd been able to do this in 2016 theyd 
have already repaid the shortfall debt. 
Initially, Halifax agreed to issue a calling up notice and instructed solicitors. There was an 
error  which Halifax accepts  when a calling up notice was issued for Mr and Mrs Ts other 
property. I dont think this error made any difference to the outcome.
Halifax instructed its solicitors to issue a calling up notice for the correct property. The 
solicitors advised against this because there was a statutory works order in place. Based on 
the legal advice it received, Halifax didnt issue a calling up notice or agree to take 
possession of the property. This would have been the same if there hadnt been an error in 
issuing a calling up notice for the wrong property.
I dont think Halifaxs decision not to issue a calling up notice or take possession was unfair. 
Mrs T had told Halifax her share of the cost of the work would be about £70,000 to £80,000 
and her insurance didnt cover it. Given the potential cost of the work, that the property was 
deemed dangerous and had a statutory works order in place it seems unlikely Halifax would 
have been able to sell the property to clear the mortgage debt.
The local council issued a compulsory purchase order  the evidence suggests this was 
issued in 2017. Since then, the mortgage debt has increased. I dont think Halifax was 
responsible for the compulsory purchase process taking so long. And I cant see there was 
anything to stop Mr and Mrs T making payments to reduce the shortfall if they were in a 
position to do so. Ive explained this below.
Halifax says the council controlled the compulsory purchase process, which was delayed by 
the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mrs T told Halifax in early 2018 shed had an offer of £5,000 from the council. She wanted to 
go into Halifaxs negative equity process. Halifax received a valuation which said £5,000 was 
reasonable and it consented to the shortfall sale. 
Halifaxs notes suggest it was Mr and Mrs Ts solicitor that dealt with the council regarding 
the amount of compensation. Mrs T and Halifax discussed the shortfall on a number of 
occasions. Mrs T told Halifax they didnt have a proposal for the shortfall until they knew 
what the local authority were offering for the compulsory purchase. They were hoping their 
solicitor would be able to get them more than £5,000.
It's understandable that Mr and Mrs T wanted to get more compensation from the council. 
Its unclear if this was the cause of delays in the matter being completed, or if there were 
other reasons for the delays. But, based on the available evidence, I dont think Halifax is 
responsible for the time this process took, or for the compensation amount being less than 
Mr and Mrs T had hoped for.
It seems the council was consistent from 2018 that it would offer compensation of about 
£5,000. Mr and Mrs T would reasonably have known there would be a shortfall to pay, and 
approximately what this would be. Halifax tried to discuss the mortgage debt, and Mr and 
Mrs Ts proposals to repay it with them. If Mr and Mrs T had the means to make repayments, 
they could have done so even if they didnt know the exact amount of the shortfall. 
I think Mr and Mrs T were aware that interest was applied to the mortgage balance. They 
didnt make any payments from 2016 and the interest was added to the amount owed. 
Halifax told Mr and Mrs T if they didnt make payments interest would be applied to a higher 
balance and their credit files could be impacted. I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to apply 
interest and costs to the mortgage in accordance with the mortgage terms and conditions. If 
Mr and Mrs T wanted to avoid their mortgage balance increasing, they could have continued 
making monthly payments  at least to cover the interest  if they were able to do so.
Halifax received the compensation payment from the council in mid-2022 and applied it to 
the mortgage balance. It provided evidence of this. Mr and Mrs T had been aware of the 
councils offer of compensation since 2018 and their solicitor had been in contact with the 
council with the aim of getting more compensation. I dont think its fair to say that Halifax is 
responsible for the compensation amount being less than Mr and Mrs T had hoped. Mr and Mrs T say they were upset to be contacted by a debt collection agency about the 
shortfall debt, rather than by Halifax. Halifax says once the compensation payment was 
received, the mortgage account was closed and it passed the shortfall debt to a third party 
that acts on its behalf. It says this is its usual process for collecting payments on a shortfall 
debt. Mr and Mrs T havent said the third party has acted unfairly  only that theyd prefer to 
deal with Halifax. In fairness, I need to take into account that Mr and Mrs T were in contact 
with Halifax for some years and didnt put forward any proposals for repaying the mortgage 
debt. I dont think, in the circumstances, I can fairly require Halifax to deal directly with Mr 
and Mrs T regarding the repayment of the shortfall debt.
What happens now?
When Mr and Mrs T took out the mortgage loan, they agreed to repay it and to pay interest 
in the meantime. Mr and Mrs T found themselves in a difficult position, with a property 
deemed to be dangerous and which needed costly building work, and which was 
compulsorily purchased by the council. But these events didnt come about due to an error 
by Halifax. 
I dont think Halifax has made an error here or treated Mr and Mrs T unfairly so as to make it 
fair and reasonable to require it to write off all or some of the shortfall debt.
Mr and Mrs T will need to engage with the third party acting on behalf of Halifax  via their 
solicitor if they prefer  with the aim of reaching agreement regarding repayment of the 
shortfall debt. Halifax, and the third party acting on its behalf, will need to treat Mr and Mrs T 
fairly and in accordance with relevant rules on mortgage regulation. 
Mr and Mrs T say the council should be responsible for the debt. Whether theres any basis 
for that isnt something I can look into. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman