DRN-3652265
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined his porting application. He 
asks that it refunds the early repayment charge (ERC) he paid. 
What happened
Mr B had a mortgage with Nationwide. He wanted to move and in mid-2021 applied to port 
the mortgage and increase the borrowing. 
Mr B made the porting application with his partner. As his partner didnt have indefinite leave 
to remain, Nationwide would only lend up to 75% of the property value. This was less than 
they needed to borrow. Mr B says the amount they wanted to borrow wasnt affordable for 
him as a sole applicant.
Mr B says Nationwide was inflexible and didnt treat him as a loyal customer. He said his 
partners status wasnt a problem for other lenders. Mr B and his partner took out a mortgage 
with another lender. Mr B paid an ERC to Nationwide when he repaid the mortgage.
Our investigator said Nationwide applied its lending criteria fairly to Mr Bs porting 
application. He said Nationwide was entitled to apply the ERC when the mortgage was 
repaid. Mr B didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B took out a five-year fixed interest rate product in 2019. This included an ERC which 
was payable if the mortgage was repaid before January 2024. The ERC was clearly set out 
in the mortgage offer in the form of a table. The mortgage offer said if Mr B moved house 
and Nationwide was able to offer him a new loan, he could port the product and wouldnt 
have to pay the ERC. Mr B agreed to the terms of the product when he took out the 
mortgage.
Mr B repaid the mortgage in March 2022. Nationwide applied the ERC, as it was entitled to 
do under the mortgage terms and conditions. 
Mr B says this isnt fair. He says he wanted to port the mortgage. He says Nationwide wasnt 
flexible and didnt treat him as a loyal customer. He doesnt agree with how it treats 
applicants without indefinite leave to remain. 
Nationwide is entitled to make a commercial decision about its lending criteria  which dont 
have to be the same as other lenders criteria. Nationwide applied its lending criteria to 
Mr Bs porting application. Unfortunately, this meant it didnt offer to lend the amount Mr B 
and his partner wanted to borrow. While Mr B and his partner were able to borrow the 
amount they wanted from another lender, this doesnt mean Nationwide made an error or 
treated them unfairly. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed. But he repaid the mortgage while the ERC applied. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to refund the ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman