DRN-4389315
The complaint
Mr G complains about the decision by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) to turn down a 
claim for medical expenses made under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy says We wont cover any loss, claim or expenses that directly or indirectly 
relate to or arise from the followingAny sexually transmitted diseases or sexually 
transmitted infections (except where contracted through an assault). 
Mr G incurred medical expenses whilst abroad because he was worried that he may 
have a sexually transmitted infection or disease. I understand he had a full screening 
for HIV and other sexually transmitted infections, as well as a course of medicine that 
is used to prevent an HIV infection. Im satisfied the claim falls within the above 
exclusion as it related to sexually transmitted infections or diseases, even though 
Mr G then tested negative. I dont agree with Mr G that the exclusion only applies if 
someone actually has a sexually transmitted infection or disease.
Mr G says an insured may not seek medical help due to the exclusion, even if the 
symptoms turned out to be unrelated to sexually transmitted infections. Ultimately, it 
is up to IPA what it covers under the policy. It would depend on the individual 
circumstances whether or not a claim would fall under the exclusion.
Mr G says he was assaulted, but he didnt report this to the police. Whilst Ive noted 
Mr Gs reasoning for that, as no assault was reported I dont think itd be reasonable 
to require IPA to pay the claim on this basis. 
I find that IPAs decision to turn down the claim was fair and in line with the policy 
terms. 
Whilst I recognise Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman