DRN-2706180
The complaint
Mr H complains MBNA Limited will not refund some dispute transactions.
 
What happened
Mr H complained about some transactions on his MBNA credit card which he said he did not 
make, nor did he recognise.  The transactions were made between March and May 2019 
and Mr H complained in July 2020.  He said he had only recently been made aware of the 
transactions as he had noticed direct debits for MBNA leaving his current account.  He 
thought the balance on his MBNA card was zero and so queried the payments. The 
payments were all being made to F  a social media website.
MBNA said it could not consider Mr Hs complaint as he had raised the dispute about the 
payments too late.  It said the relevant regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
 said he must raise disputed transactions with his bank no less than 13 months about the 
debit.  As Mr H had raised the payments after this time, MBNA said it was not obliged to 
consider his complaint.
So, Mr H came to this service and asked us to investigate matters.
In its submissions to us, MBNA re-iterated its position with regards the 13 months rule.  It 
also told us how it had sent text messages alerting Mr H to his monthly bank statements. It 
had also written to Mr H about how the account was being maintained. It said he ought to 
have realised these payments were leaving his account a lot sooner.
Our investigator thought MBNA acted unfairly in saying it wouldnt investigate this complaint.  
She acknowledged what the PSRs said about the 13 months time limit  but thought MBNA 
ought to have made this clear to Mr H by adding it to the terms and conditions of his 
account.  It hadnt  and so she thought it would be unfair to rely on it now.  She thought the 
transactions should have been investigated.
However, having considered the transactions herself, our investigator thought they had been 
authorised by Mr H  so she didnt think she could ask MBNA to do anymore.
Mr H made further submissions and asked that an ombudsman consider his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
13 month rule
I think the investigator is right.  If MBNA choose to rely on the provision which can be found 
in regulations, they ought to have made that clear to Mr H in the terms and conditions of his 
account.  It didnt do this.  The terms and conditions of Mr Hs account are silent on time 
limits for disputed transactions  so I think it is unfair for MBNA to rely on them.  It should 
have investigated the disputed transactions.
disputed transactions
The PSRs are also the regulations which are relevant to Mr Hs complaint about disputed 
transactions. When I consider his complaint, I have regard to these as well as relevant laws 
and good industry practice at the time.
Generally speaking, the PSRs say that if the evidence shows its more likely than not that Mr 
H authorised these payments, MBNA is entitled to hold him liable for them.  But authorisation 
has two separate elements.  The first is authentication  that is whether Mr Hs genuine card 
and details were used.  The second is consent  that is, did Mr H consent to these 
payments.
From the evidence I have seen, I am satisfied that the payments were authenticated.  Mr Hs 
card details had been stored on the merchants site.  His correct card details and address 
had been used.
Im also satisfied, on the evidence, that Mr H consented to the payments for the following 
reasons:
- on balance, I think I can rule out a third-party fraudster having access to Mr Hs 
account as the transactions do not follow the usual fraud pattern I would expect to 
see. By this, I mean a substantial balance was left on the account when the 
payments stopped.  I would expect a fraudster to use up the balance as soon as they 
could
- MBNA had sent text messages on a monthly basis to Mr H to advise his statements 
were ready to view.  He too has a responsibility to monitor his account
- Mr H would have seen the direct debit leaving his current account on a monthly 
basis.  He failed to query the payments until some time had passed
- On at least two occasions, MBNA had written to Mr H.  It advised it had only been 
receiving the minimum payment into the account. I cant see that Mr H responded or 
took any action.
So, in the circumstances, on balance, I think Mr H knew about these payments and had 
authorised them.  Accordingly, I wont be asking MBNA to refund them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman