DRN-3070848
The complaint
Mr J complains that Quilter Financial Planning Solutions Limited (hereafter Quilter) mis-
sold him an income protection policy.
What happened
In 2005 Mr J was sold a number of financial products by Quilter when taking out a mortgage. 
One of the products sold to him was an income protection policy designed to provide a 
regular benefit in the event of him becoming incapacitated and unable to work. It is this 
product that this decision will address. 
In 2019 Mr J complained about the way Quilter had sold his financial products. He said it had 
told him they were a condition of his mortgage, and the cover each product provided was the 
same. To put things right, Mr J said he wanted Quilter to refund the premiums hed paid 
towards those products.  
Quilter responded to Mr Js complaint and explained why it didnt think it had mis-sold 
anything. However, it also said Mr J had raised his concerns about the sale too late and it 
did not consent to this service looking into matters when Mr J referred his complaint here. 
The time limits surrounding Mr Js complaint were considered by this service and an 
ombudsman decided that we did have the jurisdiction to consider it. Mr Js complaint was 
subsequently separated out by the individual products that had been sold. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Js income protection had been mis-sold. She didnt identify 
anything about the policy which appeared to be unsuitable for his needs at the time. And she 
pointed to the difference between what it and the other products that had been sold were 
intended to provide. So, she didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
Mr J disagreed with that opinion. He reiterated his concerns about being told the policy had 
to be taken. He also said the cover it provided wasnt needed because hed had savings, 
was working fulltime for a national company, and also ran his own business part-time. So as 
no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, although Mr J was sold other financial products by Quilter, the subject of 
this decision will only focus on the sale of his income protection policy. 
Mr Js policy was sold on an advised basis. That meant Quilter needed to ensure what it had 
recommended was suitable for his needs and circumstances at the time. 
Looking at the documentation available from the time of the sale I can see that a fact find 
was completed. This captured information about Mr Js financial circumstances and his 
protection needs. For example it recorded both Mr Js monthly income and his disposable 
income. It set out that the ability to have his lifestyle fully protected and an income in the 
event of being unable to work was very important to him. And it noted that Mr J wanted to 
receive £1000 per month from a policy, after a deferred period of three months. 
Mr Js financial position and protection needs were also referenced in a letter of 
recommendation from Quilter. This said he wanted something in place which would protect 
his income in the event of being unable to work due to accident or sickness. It also said his 
preference for this was a product which would pay a regular income, would provide cover for 
a term of 22 years, and would pay out after a deferred period of three months (13 weeks).
The income protection policy Quilter went on to recommend provided cover for a policy 
holder becoming incapacitated and unable to work due to accident or illness. It offered a 
monthly benefit of £1000 after a deferred period of 13 weeks. And it had a term of 22 years. 
So it does appear to have been suitable for what Mr Js needs and circumstances were 
reported to be at the time. 
I know that Mr J has said the policy wasnt suitable for him because he had access to 
savings and was also working part time for his own business. But Im not persuaded I can 
fairly agree with this.
Information about the amount of savings Mr J had as well as the income he received from 
working for his own business was recorded in the fact find. So Quilter did have knowledge of 
this at the time it sold Mr Js policy. However, the nature of experiencing an accident or 
becoming unwell is not something that can be predicted. 
Had Mr J found himself in the unfortunate position of becoming incapacitated and unable to 
work due to either accident or illness, there would have been no way of knowing how long 
that situation might have gone on for. Consequently, there would have been no way of 
knowing whether his savings would have been able to last long enough in order for him to 
rely on them as income replacement for an undetermined period of time. 
And further, the part time work Mr J did for his own business was reported as being the 
same work he did for his employer. So had Mr J suffered an accident or illness and been 
unable to work, I think it reasonable to assume that he wouldnt have been able to perform 
that work in either role. 
Mr J received a key features document which highlighted the main provisions and 
restrictions of the cover that would be provided by the policy. His cancellation rights were set 
out in that document too  namely that after his application was accepted hed have a set 
period of time in which he could change his mind about taking the policy out. And, as I 
understand, the policy provider also sent Mr J a copy of the full terms and conditions directly 
too which would have detailed his cancellation rights. 
I am aware that throughout this complaint Mr J has maintained Quilter told him he had to 
take the policy out and I appreciate his strength of feeling about this. Unfortunately however, 
aside from this testimony theres no contemporaneous evidence to support this position. I 
would like to reassure Mr J that this doesnt mean Quilter did not say this to him. Its just that 
theres not enough evidence for me to fairly conclude that it did. 
I realise Mr J is likely to be disappointed by my findings, but I do hope he can understand 
why I have reached this position. For the reasons given above, I am unable to conclude that 
Mr Js income protection policy was mis-sold by Quilter and it follows that I will not be 
directing it to take any remedial action. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman