DRN-3735914
The complaint
Mr R complained that his claim was settled unfairly by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
(Admiral) because of the way the policy excess was applied.
What happened
Mr R made a successful claim to Admiral following a storm. He was unhappy how part of his 
claim was settled in relation to his external TV arial that was fixed to the outside of the 
house.
Admiral explained that the policy defined contents of the house as including aerials and 
satellite dishes. So, it said a £250 policy excess would apply to this part of the claim, which 
meant it wasnt worth Mr R claiming as the cost of the damage was only £130.
Mr R thought this was unfair and thought the aerial should be covered as part of his 
buildings claim which he had already paid a policy excess for. He didnt think it was fair he 
had to pay an additional excess for contents.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the claim. He thought aerials were clearly defined as 
contents within the policy, so he thought Admiral had fairly settled the claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. Mr R disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has referenced a publication by our service that he thinks supports his argument that 
Admiral has been unfair in settling this claim. The article Mr R refers to is titled when its not 
clear if an item falls under contents or buildings insurance. However, Admiral explained that 
the policy did define contents clearly.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions. Contents is defined on page 3 of the policy as 
household goods, high-risk items and personal belongings which you or your family own or 
are legally responsible for, including tenant's fixtures and fittings, aerials and satellite dishes, 
domestic gardening equipment and domestic motorised vehicles. I think the policy is clear 
that it does include aerials as part of the contents, rather than part of the buildings.
So, in these circumstances, I dont think the article Mr R has referred to is appropriate, as 
the policy is clear on items falling within the contents and buildings part of the cover. I think 
Admiral has been fair in saying aerials fall into the contents section of the policy.
Admiral then applied the appropriate policy excess to each part of the claim. In this case, it 
applied a £250 to the contents part of the claim, which is in line with the policy schedule. 
Therefore, I think Admiral has been reasonable. I have reviewed the policy to understand if 
Mr R couldve made his claim under a different peril, such as accidental damage. But, I cant 
see he would have benefitted by doing so. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to do anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman