DRN-3168136
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about how Great Lakes Insurance SE dealt with their request for a 
refund of the premiums they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 9 May 2022  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think Great Lakes had acted unreasonably 
or unfairly in how it deal with Mr and Mrs As claim. And I outlined the reasons why I wasnt 
minded to uphold their complaint. I said:
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes on 4 August 
2020 for a holiday which was due to take place from 18 July until 1 August 2021. 
Mr and Mrs A paid a total of £160.08 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the 
standard level of travel insurance cover, which also covered them both for a number of 
declared medical conditions. 
On 17 June 2021, Mr and Mrs A contacted Great Lakes to explain that theyd had to cancel 
their holiday because they were unable to travel to their intended destination due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. They asked Great Lakes to cancel their policy and refund their policy 
premium.
Great Lakes informed Mr and Mrs A that it could cancel their policy but stated a refund 
couldnt be provided as the 14 day cooling off period had expired. Mr and Mrs A asked 
Great Lakes to defer their policy instead. But Great Lakes said it couldnt do that. Mr and Mrs 
A werent happy with what Great Lakes had told them and complained. But Great Lakes 
didnt think it had made an error and it didnt uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. 
Being dissatisfied with Great Lakes response to their complaint, Mr and Mrs A referred it to 
our service. Our investigator looked into this complaint and set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 4 August 
2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
Our investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
But they thought Great Lakes response to Mr and Mrs As complaint was fair and 
reasonable. So, they didnt recommend upholding this complaint. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mr and Mrs A 
disagreed with our investigators view of their complaint. Ive therefore been asked to decide 
what is a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions state: 
You have the right to cancel up to 14 days from the date you receive:
The policy document at the start of your insurance;
The renewal policy documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should you decide to exercise this cancellation right, you will be entitled to a refund of 
premium provided that you have not started a trip to which the insurance applies and you 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of your 14 day cancellation period you continue to have the right to 
cancel your policy at any time during its term by contacting us, but no refund of premium will 
be available.
In the complaint form that Mr and Mrs A sent our service, they set out how they wanted their 
complaint to be resolved. They stated that they wanted to either receive a cash refund of the 
premium they paid, be issued with a voucher for future travel or defer their policy. I think it 
may make matters clearer if I deal with each request in turn.
Are Mr and Mrs A entitled to a refund of the premium?  
I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs A to receive a refund of the premiums 
they paid because: 
Mr and Mrs A purchased their policy over the telephone on 4 August 2020. Having 
listened to the call recording of the policy sale Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs A were 
informed about the policy features and exclusions and their cancellation rights.
Cover under Mr and Mrs As policy commenced immediately once it had been 
purchased, which is confirmed by the insurance validation certificate they received. 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs A were reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to 
their policy following the sale of their policy. They received a copy of their policy 
terms and conditions by email and post. These terms are typical of the cancellation 
terms found in most travel insurance policies.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable.Mr and Mrs A werent just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great 
Lakes also covered them for cancellation cover from 4 August 2020. So, the premium 
they paid covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday due to any of a 
number of listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mr and Mrs 
A falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical condition.
There was around 6 weeks remaining on Mr and Mrs As travel policy from the date 
they contacted Great Lakes to request the cancellation of their policy to the date their 
policy was due to expire. So, they benefitted from the cover the policy afforded them 
for the majority of the time it was in force. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period. 
Ive taken into account the relevant industry guidance and what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of the complaint, including the unique and unprecedented 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And Ive also considered that Mr and Mrs A 
took out their policy at a time when the impact of the pandemic was ongoing and 
there was ongoing travel disruption. Whilst in some circumstances we may have 
directed a refund I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to do so here due to the 
date of purchase. And Im satisfied that Great Lakes policy not to issue goodwill 
refunds in relation to policies purchased after 17 June 2020 due to the known 
disruption to travel plans by the pandemic is fair and reasonable.
Based on the available evidence, there arent any exceptional circumstances that 
persuade me that Great Lakes should issue a refund here.
Are Mr and Mrs A entitled to a voucher towards future travel?  
While Mr and Mrs A have told our service theyd accept a credit voucher instead of a cash 
refund, Im not persuaded that Great Lakes should issue a credit voucher that they could use 
towards future travel for the same reasons as those outlined in the previous section. 
Are Mr and Mrs A entitled to defer their policy?
Mr and Mrs A told our investigator that they asked Great Lakes to defer their policy as an 
alternative to a refund, but it refused. I dont think this was unreasonable because:
The policy that Mr and Mrs A took out can only be used to insure a holiday taking 
place within 365 days of the original purchased date. The holiday Mr and Mrs A had 
booked was due to end on the day 362.
As cover under the policy commenced on 4 August 2020, any holiday would have to 
have taken place by 3 August 2021. But Mr and Mrs As request to defer their policy 
until June 2022, would fall outside this period. So, it isnt unreasonable for Great 
Lakes to decline their request. This is because, once Great Lakes had started to 
insure the risk under the policy, it isnt possible to pause the risk or defer it. Great 
Lakes therefore had no way of doing what Mr and Mrs A wanted it to do.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im not minded to direct Great Lakes to take 
any other action and therefore Im not intending to uphold this complaint. In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
Great Lakes responded confirming it agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing 
further to add. Mr and Mrs A did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has presented any new evidence or 
arguments for my consideration, I see no reason to reach different conclusions to those set 
out in my provisional decision. I remain persuaded that this complaint should not be upheld 
and that Great Lakes need not do anything further to resolve Mr and Mrs As concerns.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman