DRN-3462326
The complaint
Miss S complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited failed to close her credit account 
when she asked it to.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Miss S had a credit account with Shop Direct. She arranged to pay off the debt and 
asked to close the account but shop Direct overcharged her by £30 and so the 
account remained open with a positive balance.
Some time later, Miss S realised this and complained. Shop Direct apologised, 
refunded the £30, closed the account and offered £250 compensation. 
Our Investigator said she thought the £250 offered was fair but Miss S disagreed and 
asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of this case arent in dispute, only the amount of compensation offered. 
Miss S hasnt argued she experienced any financial loss because of the error or 
explained any significant impact as a result of it. But she said she found it distressing.
While I understand the error must have been inconvenient, Im satisfied Shop Direct 
handled things quickly when it became aware of what it had done. It apologised, 
refunded the overcharged amount and adjusted Miss S credit file. It also offered 
compensation of £250. I consider this to be a generous sum in light of the 
circumstances.
Miss S believes Shop Direct took advantage of her as she experiences a medical 
condition and it should therefore pay more compensation. Shes not provided any 
explanation or supporting evidence about why she believes it did this and Ive not 
seen anything which persuades me this belief has merit. 
Ive also not seen any evidence which persuades me an increase in the 
compensation already offered would be appropriate due to the impact of the error 
because of Miss S stated medical condition.
Overall, Im satisfied the £250 offered by Shop Direct is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman