DRN-4239869
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Experian Limited has is reporting the same defaults twice on her credit 
report.
What happened
A business I will refer to as P, bought two accounts in Mrs Cs name that were in default but 
have since been settled in full. The accounts were originally held by a business I will refer to 
as L.
Mrs C is unhappy that both of the defaulted accounts appear twice on her report  in the 
name of L and P. Mrs C is unhappy that Experian has counted the defaults twice in her total 
number of defaulted accounts. Mrs C is concerned that this will have a negative impact on 
her ability to obtain credit in the future.
Experian didnt agree that it had made a mistake. It explained to Mrs C that although the 
debts were being recorded twice, only the entries reported by P would be considered when 
she applied for credit. 
After the complaint came to us, the investigator didnt recommend upholding it. He didnt 
think Experian is reporting the accounts as twice defaulted. The investigator said defaulted 
accounts need to be reported on a consumers credit file for six years. But this doesnt mean 
that Mrs C currently has four rather than defaults registered against her.
The investigator told Mrs C that if she thought L should be reporting exact settlement dates, 
Experian could raise this with L. However, the investigator told Mrs C that adding a 
settlement date wouldnt impact her credit score. Finally, the investigator told Mrs C that if 
she thought L was reporting the wrong information to Experian, she should raise this with L.
Mrs C is unhappy with the investigation outcome and thinks the investigator has 
misunderstood her concerns. Mrs C thinks L and P are correctly reporting information about 
the accounts to Experian. She is worried that Experian hasnt made it clear to potential 
lenders that L sold the two accounts to P. Instead Experian simply says the debts have been 
assigned to a CAIS member.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
Im grateful to Mrs C for the clarification shes given to this service about her complaint. I 
understand Mrs C isnt unhappy that L and P are reporting the accounts. Rather that if 
someone views her credit report, she doesnt think it would it be crystal clear that L had sold 
the debts to P and that the defaults arise from the same debts. 
I can see why Mrs C is concerned but Im not persuaded that Experian has made a mistake 
with its reporting. The original lender  in this case L  has recorded the status of the 
accounts as debt assigned. And it is standard wording on an Experian credit report to say 
that the debt been assigned to a CAIS member. I wouldnt expect Experian to amend its 
records to identify the name of the third party. Particularly as this will have been how L 
reported the entries to Experian. 
As Experian has told Mrs C  any potential lenders would be aware that the two entries for 
each account, relate to the same account. According to Experians data, L and P have 
reported the same start date for each account and the default dates match. The default 
balances reported by P are each £1 higher than those reported by L. But I dont think this 
would cause a potential lender to conclude they were different debts, given the same start 
and default dates and the flag confirming the original debts were sold. However, if Mrs C 
was concerned about the slight discrepancy, I think shed need to raise this with L or P. 
In line with the ICO guidance that Mrs C referred to, each of the original accounts is showing 
as a zero balance. Experian has told Mrs C that at the moment L hasnt reported the default 
satisfaction or settlement date. Experian has offered to raise this with L If she wants and I 
leave this with Mrs C to decide whether she wants to take up Experians offer.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Experians reporting of the two debts is unfair or potentially 
confusing for lenders.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman