DRN-3104854
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services (BMWFS).  
What happened
In August 2020 Mr P acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. 
The car cost around £30,000, was four years old and had covered around 31,000 miles. 
Mr P says the car wouldnt start at the end of September 2020. So he called a breakdown 
company. The breakdown company couldnt establish what the fault was so Mr P had the 
car taken to the supplying dealer. The next day Mr P contacted BMWFS to let it know what 
happened. He said he desperately needed a seven seat SUV for him and his family.
BMWFS asked Mr P for details of the fault on 2 October 2020 and a few days later it 
acknowledged the complaint. Mr P didnt know what the problem was at this point, so he 
explained the car wouldnt start. He highlighted again that being without a suitable car was 
causing him inconvenience, such as not being able to take his children to their clubs. 
Theres a job card from the supplying dealer dated 6 October 2020 relating to the 
investigation of the car not being able to start. It looks like it tried to check and disconnect 
the battery. It doesnt look like the supplying dealer knew what the issue was at this point, 
but it suspected a possible software issue. So it decided to send the car to a manufacturer 
franchised garage to investigate the issue a few days later. 
The supplying dealer also spoke to Mr P about providing a courtesy car, but I dont think they 
managed to come to an agreement because Mr P wouldnt have been able to return the car 
on the specified day. Mr P said he could collect the courtesy car but would have preferred 
the supplying dealer to pick it up from him, ideally when the car that was being repaired was 
returned. It looks like the supplying dealer was going to look in to this for him, but I cant see 
that anything happened, and Mr P contacted BMWFS enquiring if he could end the 
agreement on 15 October 2020. He was unhappy because he hadnt been provided an 
equivalent courtesy car and he said it was causing him a lot of inconvenience. 
Mr P didnt hear back from BMWFS, but around a week later it looks like the supplying 
dealer sent him a text message about returning the car. Mr P emailed the supplying dealer in 
the morning of the 22 October 2020 to say hed be in all day and that he wanted to know 
what was wrong with the car. 
The next day Mr P complained the car wasnt delivered. He said he waited in all day and he 
reiterated he wanted to know what was wrong with the car before deciding whether to take it 
back. He also wanted to know if hed be covered for any non wear and tear issues that could 
come up in the next few months. He asked when the car would be returned and also asked 
about compensation for the month or so hed been without it. 
It looks like the supplying dealer got in contact with Mr P the following day to explain that its 
service advisor was off for a couple of days which is why Mr Ps message was missed. But 
that it was ready to drop the car off to him. Mr P responded to provide a few dates hed be 
available that week to take delivery of the car but that he wanted to know what was wrong 
with it. He also mentioned that hed still not heard back from BMWFS. 
The supplying dealer told Mr P that work was done on the steering column. But Mr P 
reiterated he wanted to hear back from BMWFS before deciding what to do. He asked 
BMWFS for an update on 28 October 2020. 
On 3 November 2020 Mr P told BMWFS he was going to cancel his payments, and it replied 
to apologise for not responding to his emails. It made some enquiries with the supplying 
dealer and sent its final response on Mr Ps complaint on 10 November 2020. In summary, it 
said:
As the fault was discovered outside of the first 30 days, the suppling dealer should 
have been given an opportunity to fix the issue before rejection of the car could be 
considered
Courtesy cars are provided at the discretion of the supplying dealer and are not 
something BMWFS were contractually obliged to provide. But it would consider 
offering a reimbursement for the time Mr P was without a car. 
Mr P wrote back to BMWFS the same day and the next day to say that he was unhappy 
BMWFS didnt detail any reimbursement, and that it had ignored issues such as details of 
the fault. He was also unhappy that BMWFS seemed to have ignored the inconvenience 
caused. But he asked it to reinstate the finance agreement and to return a suitable car, that 
is, not one that was still faulty. He asked BMWFS to confirm when the car would be returned, 
and that he wanted it done in daylight so he could inspect it.
Over the next few days, Mr P contacted BMWFS a couple more times as he hadnt heard 
back. He complained again that hed not heard anything and that BMWFS hadnt reinstated 
his finance agreement. He also complained that thered been no effort to return the car. He 
said he was also unhappy that hed not been offered a refund of the payments hed made up 
until that point. 
BMWFS wrote back to Mr P on 17 November 2020 to say that it wasnt in possession of the 
car so he should contact the supplying dealer to arrange its return. It said the agreement 
hadnt been deactivated so Mr P should contact his own bank to reinstate the direct debt. It 
also said the complaint had been rejected so it wouldnt offer any compensation. And it 
reiterated that it was under no obligation to provide a courtesy car. 
Mr P wasnt happy things werent getting resolved, so he brought the complaint to our 
service to consider. He also continued to contact BMWFS because he was unhappy the car 
hadnt been returned and that hed still not received any compensation as indicated in the 
final response letter. He thought it was BMWFS responsibility to help return the car to him. 
And that he was unhappy BMWFS had rejected his complaint about the quality of the car. 
Since the complaint has been referred to us, I understand Mr P has continued to use his 
work van for transport. And hes continued to write to BMWFS regularly complaining about 
the situation and that his car hadnt been returned. 
From what I can see, its not until March 2021 that BMWFS sent a more detailed response to 
Mr P. It reiterated a lot of what it had said before. That is, it wasnt its responsibility to return 
the car to Mr P and that he should contact the supplying dealer about it. It also mentioned 
again that it couldnt reinstate Mr Ps direct debit for him. It said it had made numerous 
attempts to help Mr P and that it wanted to wait for the ombudsman service to investigate the complaint. But it did look like a few options were discussed to resolve the complaint. Those 
options being:
Return the car together with a refund of one payment and £500 compensation for the 
trouble and upset.
End the agreement early.
Wait for the ombudsman to decide the case. 
Mr P wasnt happy with the options. He continued to complain to BMWFS, but the parties 
also wanted our service to have the chance to investigate. 
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. In summary, she said:
She thought there was a fault with the car that made it of unsatisfactory quality.
That repairs should have been carried out within a reasonable amount of time and 
without significant inconvenience caused to Mr P. 
Mr P had made himself available to have the car returned, but it hadnt been. 
She recommended Mr P be able to reject the car and that the agreement be ended. She 
said he should receive a refund of his deposit, his monthly payments as well as his 
insurance and road tax costs. She also recommended he be paid £200 in compensation. 
BMWFS said the car was repaired and available to collect from 22 October 2020. It said the 
supplying dealer was under no obligation to deliver it to Mr P, but that it offered to do so a 
few days later. It highlighted an email from Mr P to the supplying dealer on 28 October 2020 
when he said he could not accept the return of the car because he was waiting to hear back 
from BMWFS, and that he said he may have to reject the car. BMWFS said after it had 
completed its investigation and issued its final response it was also made clear that the car 
would be able to be delivered to Mr P. It felt that Mr P was stopping things from being 
resolved. So BMWFS thought it (and the supplying dealer) had done enough to put things 
right. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint saying:
I think it makes sense to first turn to the complaint about the quality of the goods. 
The car was supplied to Mr P under a regulated hire purchase agreement. Our service is 
able to consider complaints about these sorts of agreements. BMWFS is the supplier of the 
goods under the agreement and is responsible for dealing with a complaint about their 
quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr P entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality, fit for their intended purpose, and as described. 
The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the 
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. In a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.
In Mr Ps case, the car supplied was used. It was around four years old and had covered 
around 31,000 miles, so thered be different expectations than if it was a brand-new car. But 
its worth pointing out that Mr P paid around £30,000 for the car so I dont think he would have expected it to have any major issues shortly after acquiring it. 
Ive thought about whether there was a fault with the car. Mr P has told us it wouldnt start 
one day after his children were dropped at school. He says the breakdown recovery 
company couldnt establish what the fault was. But weve been provided with a job card from 
the supplying dealer where it was trying to diagnose the problem. The dealer thought there 
was likely a software issue which is why it transferred the car to a manufacturer franchised 
dealer. 
Weve now been provided with an invoice relating to the work the manufacturer franchised 
dealer carried out. And I can see it relates to work on the steering column. Ive also seen 
correspondence that says an ignition switch was replaced and a software update was 
carried out. 
Based on the above, I think there was a fault with the car. So Ive thought about whether the 
fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality. The mileage recorded on the supplying dealers 
job card indicated the car had only covered about 50 miles since Mr P acquired it. I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect there to be a fault of this nature on a car of this age 
that cost £30,000 within a few weeks of being acquired, having only covered around 50 
miles. So, on balance, I think the fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality, and there has 
therefore been a breach of contract. 
I turn now to the remedies and what happened next. 
As BMWFS has pointed out, the CRA sets out remedies where goods dont conform to the 
contract, as I think is the case here. Mr P didnt indicate he wanted to reject the goods within 
30 days from the day after the goods were delivered to him. The car broke down outside of 
the first 30 days. So Mr P couldnt exercise the short term right to reject. 
I think BMWFS, as the supplier, therefore, fairly had an opportunity to arrange to repair the 
goods. And Mr P was required to give BMWFS this opportunity to bring the goods back to 
conformity. 
The CRA sets out in section 23 (2):
If the consumer requires the trader to repair or replace the goods, the trader must
(a)do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the 
consumer, and
(b)bear any necessary costs incurred in doing so (including in particular the cost of 
any labour, materials or postage).
The CRA also sets out in section 23 (5):
Any question as to what is a reasonable time or significant inconvenience is to be 
determined taking account of
(a)the nature of the goods, and
(b)the purpose for which the goods were acquired.
Ive thought about whether the repair was carried out within a reasonable amount of time
and without significant inconvenience. The CRA doesnt set out what is a reasonable amount 
of time. BMWFS tells us the repair on Mr Ps car took just over three weeks. Given the car 
had to be sent to a manufacturer franchised dealer I think the time it took was reasonable. I 
cant see the supplying dealer caused any unnecessary delays. Although its very 
unfortunate the car wasnt able to be delivered back to Mr P when he first hoped it would be. Ive then thought about whether the repairs took place without causing any significant 
inconvenience to Mr P. Significant inconvenience is a broad concept. Having any car break 
down and require repair would of course be inconvenient. And I think matters were made 
worse here because Mr P wasnt provided a courtesy car. He had young children and 
required the car for childcare and for the childrens clubs, as well as the normal day to day 
use. I think the impact was slightly tempered by the fact Mr P had a work van. But its clear 
that this wasnt ideal for him, and having a suitable car to use was very important for Mr P. 
Im mindful the supplying dealer did look to provide a courtesy car for Mr P. Although it 
wasnt able to be arranged because of issues with having it collected. But Im also mindful 
that the complaint Im considering is against BMWFS  not the supplying dealer.
The Governments Department for Business Innovation and Skills (BIS) 2015 guidance for 
businesses on goods and the CRA says:
Factors that could be considered in determining whether significant inconvenience 
has been incurred in particular cases could include  but are not limited to  impact 
on health or safety, financial loss, whether the consumer has access to an alternative 
or temporary replacement.
Taking everything into account, including the time taken and the fact Mr P did have a work 
van to use, while I dont doubt the repairs caused inconvenience, I dont think I have the 
grounds to say they caused significant inconvenience initially. But I think going months 
without having the car returned has caused Mr P significant inconvenience. I dont think Mr P 
had access to a longer term suitable alternative, from what hes told us. I dont think having 
to take children around in a work van to school and to clubs, as well as the other day to day 
use would have been very convenient or practical at all. 
Summary and next steps
Things have moved on since were told Mr Ps car has been repaired. Mr P hasnt been 
paying towards the agreement. Almost a year has passed. And the relationship between 
Mr P and BMWFS has broken down. 
I think BMWFS could have done more to assist Mr P when he first contacted it. Initially it 
asked for details of what the fault was but, at that point, Mr P didnt know what was wrong 
with the car. And despite Mr P contacting it various times over the next few weeks asking for 
help, he didnt hear anything until it got to the stage that he decided to cancel his direct debit. 
So, while I accept BMWFS may not have had the capacity to respond instantly, I think it 
should have done more here to assist Mr P. Indeed, BMWFS apologised for not responding 
to him. Had it done so, things may well have been resolved straight away.
Mr P clearly wanted the car returned when were told it was repaired. But the relationship 
started to deteriorate when initially the supplying dealer didnt tell him what needed repairing, 
and also when BMWFS wouldnt respond to his contact. I think Mr P had legitimate concerns 
and was not acting unreasonably by wanting to know how significant the problems were. A 
car failing to start and it not being a simple fix must have been very concerning for him. He 
also wanted to know what would happen if further non wear and tear faults occurred in the 
following few months. And its not unreasonable that he was also unhappy he was paying for 
a car he was unable to use  due to a fault that I think made it of unsatisfactory quality. 
However, putting all that aside, its important to note that Mr P still wanted the car to be 
returned to him after BMWFS sent its final response  shown by the contact he made after it 
was sent. He sent various emails asking BMWFS for assistance. And I dont think BMWFS 
responded to these accordingly. As the supplier of the goods (that I think were not of 
satisfactory quality) under the hire purchase agreement, I think BMWFS could have done much more to assist Mr P in getting the car returned. I appreciate the car was with the 
supplying dealer, but Mr P came to BMWFS  the supplier  for help and reassurance. 
Its also worth noting that Mr P was very responsive to contact. He normally got back to 
BMWFS and the supplying dealer the same or next day he was contacted. BMWFS didnt 
respond to many of Mr Ps emails, and sometimes there was weeks before he heard back. 
So, in all likelihood, had BMWFS responded to his points and done a bit more to work with 
the supplying dealer to arrange the return of the goods, things probably wouldve been 
resolved. I dont agree its done all it could to help resolve matters. 
I also think BMWFS gave Mr P conflicting information on what it was prepared to do to put 
things right. It said in the final response letter that it would reimburse Mr P for the time he 
was without use of the car. But in the follow up correspondence it said it would not offer any 
reimbursement or compensation because the complaint had been rejected. This must have 
been very confusing for Mr P. I think this all fed in to what was a very frustrating time for him 
 which all came off the back of him spending a lot of money on a faulty car. It was only 
more recently that BMWFS started to put together offers that included certain 
reimbursements and compensation for Mr P. But by that point the complaint was with our 
service, and the parties seemed to want our service to set out what we thought. But, 
importantly, as Ive said, I think things had moved on by that point. 
Had the communication been better from BMWFS (and the supplying dealer) its likely the 
car would have been returned to Mr P shortly after were told it was repaired. But that didnt 
happen. 
I think there are two viable options to take things forward now:
1. Direct BMWFS to reinstate the agreement; deliver the car back to Mr P and ask him 
to start making payment towards it. 
2. Direct BMWFS to end the agreement and to put things right in line with what our 
investigator recommended. 
There are a few potential issues that come to mind with the first direction. The repairs may 
not have been successful. The car has likely been left unused for almost a year. This could 
have potentially caused further issues with it. The car is likely to be worth less now than it 
was a year ago. So is it fair to ask Mr P to effectively start again and pay the original asking 
price for the car that may not be fixed?
The issue with the second direction from what I can see is that BMWFS finds it unfair that it 
is directed to end an agreement when it believes the car was successfully repaired, and 
available to be delivered back to Mr P. BMWFS seems to think that Mr P put unnecessary 
obstacles in the way of having the car returned. But I dont completely agree with this. As 
Ive pointed out above, Mr P still clearly wanted the car to be returned after BMWFS sent its 
final response. But BMWFS responses after that were conflicting and not particularly helpful. 
On balance, I think these actions were likely the main cause of the car not being returned. 
Ive already found that I think the repair was carried out within a reasonable amount of time. 
But Ive also got to bear in mind the issues here have all arisen because of what I think is a 
breach of contract. The goods werent of satisfactory quality. Ive also found that I think 
BMWFS could have communicated better with Mr P. And I think they could have dealt with 
his complaint much better and helped to resolve things much sooner. I think this has 
contributed to significant inconvenience being caused to Mr P. So, on balance, I think the 
fairest thing to do now is to let Mr P walk away. So my provisional decision is that Im 
intending to uphold the complaint and direct BMWFS to put things right in a similar way to 
our investigators recommendations. I dont think Mr P should be required to pay for any use of the car as it looks as though he 
only covered around 50 miles. I think he should be refunded everything paid under the 
agreement, including the deposit, along with all adverse information being removed from his 
credit file. And I also think its fair he receives a refund of his tax and insurance, upon receipt 
of evidence as hes not had use of these. The sort of evidence I think would be acceptable 
would be something to show that Mr P has paid road tax and insurance solely for this 
particular car. And that any rebates are taken into account. 
Ive also found the matter caused inconvenience to Mr P which, to my mind, was made 
worse by BMWFS handling. As Ive pointed out, I think things were initially inconvenient for 
Mr P, but as its not been resolved fairly, I dont doubt things have been made much worse. 
So I think it would be fairer, in the round, for BMWFS to also pay the £500 compensation it 
offered more recently. I think this better reflects the inconvenience caused to Mr P. 
BMWFS responded and didnt accept the provisional decision. In summary, it said:
It accepts theres a fault with the car. But it doesnt agree it should have done more to 
assist Mr P or communicated better. It says our service allows eight weeks for firms 
to investigate complaints and that it met this expectation. 
It sought to pay for the delivery of the car back to Mr P even though it was under no 
obligation to do so. 
Mr P was provided a courtesy car. 
Its not fair the responsibility for getting the car returned lies solely with BMWFS. 
Mr P agreed with the decision to some extent. But he also wanted to highlight the impact on 
him. In summary, he said:
Hes been unable to purchase an alternative vehicle. 
Hes been unable to pay off credit cards despite having the funds. 
Hes unable to remortgage his house because of the issue with BMWFS which could 
see him facing higher mortgage payments over the next few months. 
We spoke to Mr P after BMWFS response, and he told us he was never given a courtesy 
car. We asked him if he had any evidence to show a direct link between BMWFS actions 
and the extra costs he incurred. Mr P said its quite difficult to directly assign the costs to 
BMWFS. He said he has been able to remortgage as of August 2021 with lower payments. 
But hes been unable to release capital or move to another lender due to his credit file being 
impacted by BMWFS. His mortgage payments are due to go up, and he may have to wait six 
months for his credit rating to improve. 
The case has been passed back to me to make a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about BMWFS response to my provisional decision. Its said it couldnt have 
done more to assist or communicate better with Mr P. And that it responded within the time 
allowed by our service. BMWFS has referred to the eight-week time limit that is set out for 
firms to respond to complaints like these. I should point out that those time limits are set out 
by the FCA, not our service. Whether or not BMWFS responded to Mr Ps complaint within 
eight weeks is not central to my decision. The crux of the complaint Ive considered is about the quality of goods that BMWFS supplied under the agreement and what happened as a 
result of those goods not being of satisfactory quality. Its important for me to consider the 
individual circumstances of Mr Ps complaint and what I think is a fair way to put things right. 
And in any event, I think some of the failings of BMWFS happened after it issued the final 
response to his complaint. 
As I said in my provisional decision, BMWFS has already apologised to Mr P for not 
responding to his emails. And Ive set out in my provisional decision why I think BMWFS 
gave Mr P conflicting information that mustve been very confusing and frustrating for him. 
So I dont agree that it could not have done more to assist or communicate better with Mr P, 
regardless of whether it responded to the complaint within eight weeks. I dont find BMWFS 
communicated with Mr P in a way that was clear, fair, and not misleading. 
BMWFS has said it offered to pay to have the car returned to Mr P, but that it was under no 
obligation to do so. Ive already set out in my provisional decision the CRA sets out that 
where traders are required to carry out a repair, they should bear any necessary costs 
incurred in doing so. So, I think BMWFS did have a responsibility here. But to my mind, 
thats not the issue. I think the issue is that BMWFS (as the supplier of the goods) should 
have done more to assist Mr P in getting the car back, sooner. Ive set out my reasons why I 
think thats the case, so Im not going to go over them again.
Ive also thought about what BMWFS has said regarding the courtesy car. But Ive not seen 
sufficient evidence Mr P was ever provided one. I can see there were some discussions 
between Mr P and the supplying dealer, but they never bore fruit. And Mr P has consistently 
said throughout he wasnt given one. Im inclined to accept what hes told us. So BMWFS 
comments about a courtesy car dont change my decision. 
Finally, Ive thought about what BMWFS has said about it being unfair Mr P has taken no 
responsibility for the failure of the car being returned. But I get the sense that Mr P 
legitimately felt slightly fobbed off by BMWFS. It kept directing him back to the supplying 
dealer. I dont think Mr P was acting unreasonably by wanting to deal with BMWFS  the 
supplier of the goods. BMWFS was the party that he thought would be able to put things 
right for him. But for the reasons given above, I dont think it did enough to do so. And, also, 
as Ive said in my provisional decision, Im mindful that Mr P was very responsive to contact. 
He consistently responded within a day or two. Had a bit more been done to understand his 
concerns and not provide conflicting responses, I think it likely the car would have been 
returned sooner. 
Ive also thought about Mr Ps response to my provisional decision. I sympathise with the 
situation. And I understand theres been a long time without use of the car he originally 
acquired and that this would have impacted him and his family. Ive set out why I thought the 
compensation should be increased to £500 and I think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
With regards to the other losses Mr P has mentioned, Im not minded to direct BMWFS to 
cover anything else. I dont see how I can hold BMWFS responsible for his decision not to 
pay off his credit cards. And with regards to the losses Mr P says hes incurred and is due to 
incur in relation to the mortgage, I dont think theres sufficient evidence for me to direct 
BMWFS to pay him more. Mr P himself has acknowledged it would be hard to assign the 
costs to BMWFS. 
I should also point out that I would only have been fairly able to direct BMWFS to reimburse 
Mr P for a consequential loss if the loss was reasonably foreseeable, directly flowing from a 
mistake it had made, and that Mr P had tried to mitigate the situation. Based on what Mr P 
has told us, Im unable to do that. A lot of the losses hes claiming for havent happened yet. 
And indeed, may not happen. Its also not clear, based on what hes said, that he definitely would have been unable to remortgage solely as a result of something that BMWFS did 
wrong. So I dont have the grounds to direct BMWFS to do more, and Im not going to 
change my directions. I would point out, however, that should he accept this final decision, I 
would expect BMWFS to arrange to have his credit file amended promptly. 
For the reasons given above, while I thank both parties for their further submissions, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.   
Putting things right
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services to:
1. End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
2. Refund Mr Ps deposit of £1,000*.
3. Refund all payments made under the agreement*. 
4. Remove any adverse information about the agreement from Mr Ps credit file. 
5. Reimburse Mr P all insurance and road tax payments, upon receipt of evidence*. 
6. Pay Mr P £500 compensation. 
*BMWFS should add simple annual interest at 8% a year to the above amounts, from the 
dates of each payment until the date of settlement.
If BMWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
BMWFS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr P 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services to put things right in the way set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman