DRN-1438239
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them three 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.  
What happened
This complaint is about three PPI policies taken out by Mr and Mrs R 1998, 2000 and 2002. 
The 1998 policy was taken in connection with a mortgage, and the other two policies were 
taken when Mr and Mrs R arranged further advances on the original mortgage. The 1998 
policy provided cover for Mr R if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. The other two policies provided similar cover for both Mr and Mrs R.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs R's case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the products it 
recommended were suitable for Mr and Mrs Rs needs?
-           Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs R the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policies?
If there was a problem with the way the policies were sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs R are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policies  if there hadnt been any problems with the sales?
Ive decided the policies weren't mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Halifax hasnt provided much information from the points of sale, as these events occurred a 
number of years ago. Thats not surprising, and its similar to some other cases Ive seen. 
I'm also mindful that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.Mr and Mrs R say Halifax didn't give them a proper choice about buying the policies, 
and they were given the impression they had to buy the cover to get the loans they wanted.
I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs R and Halifax when the policies 
were sold. But I note that the original mortgage application included a separate section about 
PPI. There were different boxes outlining the choices available to customers. These included 
the following options:
'Yes, I would like a quotation for Halifax Mortgage Repayments Insurance.
'No, I do not wish to take advantage of this type of insurance and confirm I fully understand 
the risks involved.'
Mr and Mrs R's application was completed to show that they wanted the PPI quote. As there 
was an option to decline the cover, I don't think I can fairly and reasonably say that Halifax 
didn't give them a choice about buying the PPI. And there was nothing else in the application 
form to suggest that taking the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage. 
In connection with the 2000 and 2002 policies, for me to decide that Halifax didnt tell make 
Mr and Mrs R aware the PPI was optional, Id have to conclude that this was more likely than 
not. This is difficult given the lack of paperwork we have. Without any additional evidence to 
support what Mr and Mrs R have told me, it seems to me that it couldve been just as likely 
that they knew the policies were optional and chose to take them out.
So because of the limited information available to me, Ive not been able to safely conclude 
that Halifax didnt make the optional nature of the policies clear to Mr and Mrs R. 
In addition, I'm not persuaded that Halifax should've offered alternative products to Mr and 
Mrs R. It provided advice to them about its own products, and I think it's likely that would've 
been made clear to Mr and Mrs R when their borrowing was arranged.
The bank has accepted that it advised Mr and Mrs R to take out the policies and it doesnt 
look like they were unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
relevant times. I say this because:
Mr R was eligible for the 1998 policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. Mr and Mrs R were both eligible for the 2000 and 2002 policies.
Mr and Mrs R say they would have received generous work-related benefits if they 
couldnt work due to sickness or accident. But the policies would have paid out in 
addition to their occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having 
the policies in place would mean Mr and Mrs R could use their work-related benefits 
to pay for other expenses. So I think Mr and Mrs R would have had some use for the 
policies despite their existing arrangements.
Mr and Mrs R werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policies main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policies 
exclusions and limitations.
I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs R before they agreed 
to buy the policies. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. The policies were competitively priced and apparently affordable. So 
I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
 Its possible the information the bank gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But they chose to take out the policies and so appear to have wanted this 
type of cover. As Ive already said, Mr and Mrs R werent affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policies seem to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs R 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I 
think they would still have taken out the policies. 
Which means Halifax doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share in connection with the 1998 
and 2000 policies (more than 50% of the PPI premiums) - so it should have told Mr 
and Mrs R about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premiums in connection with the 1998 and 2000 
policies - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Halifax has also offered to give Mr and Mrs R back some of the cost of the 2002 PPI policy. I 
dont think it needs to do anything more in connection with that policy. 
My final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium for the 1998 
and 2000 policies. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further 
compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman