DRN-3203336
The complaint
Ms K complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a claim 
she made under her Homeplan insurance. 
What happened
In June 2020, an engineer completed a service on Ms Ks boiler as part of her Homeplan 
insurance cover with RSA. Ms K says she asked the engineer about the low pressure and 
was told that the boiler was open vented so wasnt pressurised. 
On 31 January 2021, Ms K called RSA as the downstairs heating had stopped working. An 
engineer visited her property and diagnosed sludge within the system and recommended a 
power flush. 
On 2 February 2021. Ms K engaged a private engineer for a second opinion. This engineer 
told Ms K that the system was in fact a pressurised one and they needed to find out what 
was causing the loss of pressure. On 5 February the entire system failed leaving Ms K and 
her family with no hot water or heating. 
A water test was carried out which confirmed no sludge in the system. The original installer 
of the boiler then attended the property on 8 February. They diagnosed a failure of the coil in 
the hot water tank. This caused a free flow of water into the system resulting in a build-up of 
limescale which was restricting the flow of water through the system. They said that the 
previous loss of pressure shouldve been an indication that something had failed. 
RSA arranged for another of its engineers to inspect the system and they confirmed the 
original installers diagnosis. 
On 9 February, Ms K spoke with RSA who agreed she could arrange for the repairs to be 
carried out privately given that RSA couldnt get an engineer out soon enough. The new hot 
water cylinder was installed on 12 February and heating and hot water was returned, 
although Ms K says this was in a limited fashion. 
Ms K submitted the invoice for the works carried out to RSA, but it declined this claim stating 
that the problem was caused by the build-up of limescale and that this wasnt covered under 
the policy. It did offer £100 compensation for the initial mis-diagnosis of sludge.
Unhappy with this, Ms K referred the complaint to us where one of our investigators looked 
into it. Our investigator said it was the failure of the coil which had caused the build-up of 
limescale, so she thought it should be covered by the policy. She said the complaint should 
be upheld and recommended that RSA pay for the replacement cylinder and the flush of the 
system at a cost of £1,356 as per the invoice from the engineer. Plus, she recommended a 
further £400 compensation for the fact that Ms K and her family spent so long without hot 
water. 
RSA agreed to pay for the replacement of the cylinder, a total of £1,128. But it wasnt willing 
to pay for the cost of the chemical flush or the additional compensation our investigator 
recommended. So, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A service was completed in June 2020. Ms K says she asked the engineer at this time about 
low water pressure and that she was told the system was open-vented and not pressurised. 
Obviously, I cant know what was discussed at this time. However, I note from the service 
sheet provided by RSA that there is a question on the checklist relating to pressure. It asks:
If a sealed system  is the system maintaining pressure?
The engineer has selected not applicable for this question. This suggests to me that the 
engineer at this time did believe that the system was not a pressurised one  something we 
now know is incorrect. So, on balance I think the engineer carrying out the service in 2020 
made a mistake. And I think it was this mistake that set other things in motion leading to the 
boiler ultimately breaking down. Ill explain why. 
Had the engineer realised this was a pressurised system, I wouldve expected them to check 
the pressure. And Mrs K says that she mentioned there were problems with the pressure at 
the time. Based on the above, and the consistency of Mrs Ks testimony, I think its more 
likely than not she did raise concerns over the pressure at the time, but was told that the 
system wasnt a pressurised one. Given the problems with the system pressure, its possible 
the cylinder had already failed, or was in the process of failing at this time. And, had this 
been noticed by the engineer, it may have been covered by Mrs Ks insurance. But we cant 
now say if this was the case or not.
When the independent engineer visited in February 2021, he found that the problem within 
the boiler and system was that the flow and return hoses had limescale build up within them. 
The engineer also said that, once the system was drained, he found that the coil within the 
hot water cylinder had failed causing the system to continually top up. 
Had the lack of pressure been investigated in 2020, this problem likely wouldve been 
identified earlier. The independent engineer states that the lack of pressure at the previous 
service shouldve been an indication that something had gone wrong. Given that a failing 
cylinder would cause the system to continually top up, and now there had been substantial 
limescale build up, it seems likely to me that the coil had failed at this time. The engineer in 
2021 was of the opinion that the prolonged topping up of the system (caused by the failed 
coil) had caused the limescale build up within the system and this is why a chemical flush 
was recommended.
RSA has already agreed to pay for the cost of the cylinder replacement which Ms K carried 
out privately. Given that I think its most likely that the cylinder had failed by the time the 
original service had been carried out, and this was likely missed by that engineer and that it 
led Ms K to believe this would be covered when she first complained, I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances given. 
Moving on to whether RSA should also reimburse Mrs K for the cost of the chemical flush. 
As Ive explained above, I think its likely that had the original engineer noticed the problem 
with the pressure, further investigation wouldve highlighted what was causing this. And had 
this been done so, a chemical flush wouldnt have been necessary as the limescale would 
likely have not built up to the levels requiring one (as per the report from the independent engineer). For this reason, I think RSA should also cover the cost of the chemical flush as 
per the invoice provided by Mrs K. 
Ive carefully considered the issue of whether or not Ms K should receive further 
compensation in light of this mistake. I do believe, for the reasons Ive set out, that RSAs 
mistake led to the ultimate breakdown of Ms Ks heating and hot water system. It mustve 
been very difficult for Ms K and her family to go around two weeks in the middle of winter 
without heating or hot water. And this was in the middle of a national lockdown due to 
coronavirus restrictions meaning Ms K and her family were having to spend the majority of 
time at home. Furthermore, RSA led Ms K to believe that her claim would be paid, and then 
declined it after she submitted the invoice having paid for the work herself. And shes still not 
been reimbursed for this, almost a year later. 
For these reasons, I think the total of £500 our investigator has recommended is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
To put things right, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should:
Pay £1,356 for the replacement cylinder and chemical flush Ms K paid for.
Pay £500 compensation (an additional £400 on top of the £100 already offered) for 
the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to put things right 
as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman