DRN-3731918
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 2013 
by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says that he was not properly informed about the URCA and when he claimed on the 
associated insurances, they did not provide cover as he had expected. He also says he was 
advised to take the account out when the normal procedure for an URCA was a non-advised 
sale. And he was told he would need to open the URCA to get an overdraft.
Halifax says that it provided information to Mr G about the URCA and he chose to take it out 
based on the cost and benefits of the product.
Both parties agree there was a lengthy discussion during the sale of the URCA. I wasnt 
there so I cant know what was said. I can only look at the evidence available today, 
including the testimony of both parties.
Halifax has provided evidence that Mr G had had a free account with an overdraft for many 
years before he opened the URCA.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr G knew he had a choice whether to take out the 
URCA and he chose to do so, aware that he didnt need one to get an overdraft.
Halifax has provided a copy of the notes that it took at the time of the discussion with Mr G, 
and later gave to him in summarised form, about the costs and benefits of the URCA. The 
notes indicate that the URCA was highlighted and not recommended to Mr G. This service is 
also aware that URCA sales were generally non-advised at the time.
So, I think its more likely than not that this was a non-advised sale and the only requirement 
on Halifax was to provide enough information to Mr G for him to make an informed decision 
whether to buy the URCA or not.
And I think its more likely than not that Halifax did.
I say this because, as I said above, there was clearly a lengthy discussion during the sale. 
And the evidence from Halifax is that the major benefits were discussed. Halifax has 
provided evidence that it sent Mr G a detailed welcome pack. And Mr G went on to use the 
benefits, relying on both the travel and mobile phone insurance and the £300 fee free 
overdraft.
I can see that Mr G has had complaints about the level of cover provided by the insurances, 
but these dont, of themselves, mean that inadequate information was given to him. As this 
was a non-advised sale, it was for him to ensure that the URCA was suitable for him. And if 
he is unhappy with any of the claims, he made he would need to take this up with the 
insurers before bringing any complaint to this service if it was unresolved.
So, although I know that Mr G will be disappointed, I think its more likely than not that 
Halifax didnt do anything wrong in this sale.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman