DRN-2752553
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt pay the claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy in full. Theyre also unhappy with the assistance they 
received from UKI and the way in which UKI handled the claim.
All reference to UKI includes its claims handlers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O had the benefit of a travel insurance policy underwritten by UKI (the policy). 
On 10 March 2020, they took an indirect flight abroad, arriving at their ultimate destination on 
11 March 2020. Theyd pre-booked a flight home to the UK, leaving the country of departure 
on 2 April 2020.
Mr and Mrs O were due to join a pre-paid tour on the date of arrival. But the tour was 
cancelled due to closure of tourist sites, fears over lockdowns in the country they were 
visiting due to the Covid-19 pandemic and possible quarantines. 
They contacted UKI for assistance, and to arrange for them to get back to the UK. Mr and 
Mrs O say they were told by the person who took their call that they didnt work in the travel 
assistance department. But given the volumes of calls UKI had been receiving, she had 
been asked to take details and that someone would be in touch with them.
Mr and Mrs O say no-one from UKI contacted them and given the emerging situation in the 
country they were visiting, they eventually were able to arrange a flight back to the UK with 
the airline, paying a fee of around £153 each to change their flight. Mr and Mrs O ended up 
flying home on 18 March 2020.
They made a claim on the policy for the costs associated with their holiday. 
UKI initially agreed to cover around £1,829 including the costs they incurred to amend their 
flights back to the UK, the costs theyd paid for the tour that was cancelled (less the amount 
the tour company agreed to refund) and the pro-rated costs tourist visas and private car hire 
/ taxi fare travelling to and from the UK airport. 
Mr and Mrs O didnt think that was fair. They were also unhappy that they didnt receive any 
assistance from UKI when abroad and didnt receive updates from UKI within the timeframes 
given.
UKI apologised and offered Mr and Mrs O £100 compensation for not reviewing documents 
provided to it by Mr and Mrs O within the stipulated timescales and not calling Mr and Mrs O, 
as promised, after theyd first contacted the helpline for advice. However, it maintained that 
Mr and Mrs O werent entitled to all costs theyd claimed for under the policy.
Mr and Mrs O remained unhappy and there were further communications with UKI. UKI then 
offered to pay them a further sum of around £734 using the date on which the holiday was 
effectively cut short (curtailed) as 14 March 2020, rather than 18 March 2020.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs O complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold their 
complaint. She said that the additional offer of around £734 made by UKI was more than 
they were entitled to under the policy. So, all in all, she said that UKI had acted fairly and 
reasonably by making that offer along with agreeing to pay the other amounts it had agreed 
to pay them.
Mr and Mrs O were very unhappy with the view reached by our investigator and raised 
several points in reply. As they didnt agree with the investigators recommendations, their 
complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. I know theyll be disappointed, and 
I can see that theyve invited me to call them to discuss any further issues with them directly. 
However, Im satisfied that I have all the information I require to determine their complaint 
and I have a clear understanding of the concerns theyve raised. But overall, I dont agree 
that it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint for UKI to cover 
the full costs, as claimed by Mr and Mrs O under the policy. Ill explain why.
UKI has an obligation to handle complaints fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Was Mr and Mrs Os holiday cancelled and should UKI have advised them not to travel? 
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, Mr and Mrs O were covered if theyd needed to 
cancel their holiday for one of the reasons stipulated in the policy. Im not persuaded Mr and 
Mrs O did cancel their holiday within the terms set out in the policy. Cancellation must take 
place before the trip starts  and cancellation cover ends when you leave your home area at 
the start of your trip. Mr and Mrs O left their home area and travelled to their destination. So, 
I dont think I can fairly say their holiday was cancelled. 
Mr and Mrs O have said that UKI shouldve carried out better due diligence and provided 
greater care and attention to its customer customers. Given the emerging situation involving 
Covid-19  particularly in the country where they were due to travel  they believe UKI 
shouldve told its customers to avoid travelling there. But I disagree as its not UKIs role, as 
an insurer, to provide advice and information about foreign travel to Mr and Mrs O. So, I 
dont think UKI acted unreasonably by not fulfilling that function. 
Ive seen the photos Mr and Mrs O have provided us, taken, they say, on their outbound 
flight on 10 March 2020. I can understand why they felt unnerved by the extent of protective 
clothing and face coverings some of the customers were wearing. However, Im satisfied, 
that as of 10 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) hadnt advised against 
travel to the country they were due to be visiting. And so, Im not persuaded that UKI was 
under any obligation to advise customers to avoid travelling in the circumstances. 
Was Mr and Mrs Os holiday cut short?
The policy can also cover the costs of cutting short a holiday (curtailment) subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy. The policy says UKI: will pay up to £5,000 for each insured 
person for costs that you have paid or legally have to pay if you have to cut your trip short.The policy goes on to list the reasons for curtailment that are covered under the policy and 
that includes FCO advice against All travel or All but essential travel to your destination, 
provided that advice came into force after your departure on your trip.
The FCO advised against all non-essential international travel due to the pandemic from the 
UK on 17 March 2020. It was around this date that Mr and Mrs O managed to re-arrange 
their return flight to the UK. The FCO didnt advise UK citizens who were travelling abroad to 
return home until 23 March 2020.
UKI initially used 18 March 2020 as the curtailment date. As thats when Mr and Mrs O 
returned to the UK, having cut their holiday short. Im satisfied UKI acted reasonably in doing 
so.  It calculated a pro-rata refund of certain pre-paid costs incurred by Mr and Mrs O from 
this date to the date on which they had originally intended to return home. 
However, after Mr and Mrs O complained to UKI (and before bringing a complaint to our 
Service), it did reconsider its position and ultimately offered to pay a further sum of around 
£734 to settle the claim. In doing so, UKI used 14 March 2020 as the effective date the 
holiday was cut short. It has since confirmed to our Service that this date was used because 
this is the date the FCO advised against all essential travel to the country Mr and Mrs O had 
travelled to. 
Ive considered whether thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint or 
whether Mr and Mrs Os trip was effectively curtailed before then. Mr and Mrs O couldnt join 
their intended tour  which was due to start on 11 March 2020. Ive taken on board all the 
points theyve said about that. 
Ive also considered what theyve said about people being quarantined in the country they 
were in if they were suspected to have Covid-19 - and the type of facilities they would be 
kept in, if theyd needed to be quarantined. I can understand why they felt so worried. It 
mustve been a very unsettling time. But Mr and Mrs O werent quarantined. They say that 
many of the places and activities which might appeal to tourists were unavailable due to the 
emerging situation and they spent most of their time discussing the situation with the local 
tour operator, the British Embassy and trying to get a refund for the 23-day tour theyd 
booked. They also say they were regularly trying to contact the airline.
However, from what Ive been provided, Im not persuaded that there were any official 
restrictions placed on their movement whilst abroad or that they were required to be confined 
to their hotel room  even if some of the areas they wanted to visit mightve been closed. For 
example, theyve told us in an email dated 27 May 2021 that they did wander around the 
city they were staying in but didnt feel that they were made to feel welcome. 
Whilst the circumstances were frustrating, and upsetting, I dont think thats as a result of 
anything that UKI did. The Covid-19 pandemic was an unprecedented, and rapidly 
developing situation. And it wasnt until 23 March 2020 that UK citizens were ordered to 
return home. So, overall, Im satisfied that UKIs offer to use 14 March 2020 as the effective 
date of curtailment (even though they didnt return to the UK until 18 March 2020) was fair. 
And, as such, Im satisfied that UKI has acted fairly by paying Mr and Mrs O a proportion of 
the remaining balance of the tour they were unable to recover from the tour operator and a 
pro rata share of:
- their visa costs;
- the hire car fee / taxi fare for the return journey from the UK to home; and 
- the cost of pre-booking their seats for the internal flight they had booked from the 
country they were visiting and the original flight home.Im satisfied that our investigator has accurately set out the basis of the original accepted 
claim by UKI along with the revised offer in her email dated 14 April 2021.
As the holiday wasnt cancelled before they departed the UK, I dont think it would be 
reasonable for UKI to refund Mr and Mrs Os outbound flight from the UK, care hire / taxi fare 
costs to travel to the UK airport to catch their outbound flight or the cost of pre-booking their 
seats on the outbound flight. 
Mr and Mrs O are also unhappy that UKI hasnt agreed to cover their everyday living costs 
whilst abroad including the money they spent on things like taxis, food and drink. However, 
these costs arent covered under the policy. Thats not unusual - generally travel insurance 
policies dont cover these types of costs, And Im not persuaded that it would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint for UKI to cover those costs despite them 
not being covered by the policy.
Did UKI provide an acceptable level of customer service? 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs O were very upset by not receiving a call back from UKI 
after it called it for assistance shortly after arriving at their ultimate destination and having 
discovered that their tour had been cancelled. UKI has apologised for this and for not getting 
back to them within stipulated timescales after they submitted their claim after they returned 
to the UK. UKI has also offered Mr and Mrs O £100 in compensation. 
I know Mr and Mrs O feel very strongly that this sum doesnt go far enough to compensate 
them. However, Im satisfied that £100 is a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience 
they experienced as a result of what UKI did wrong. I say that because, even if theyd 
promptly received a call back from a representative from UKI whilst abroad as they 
shouldve, I think its unlikely UKI wouldve agreed to cover Mr and Mrs O cutting short their 
trip at that stage. As of 11 March 2020, the FCO hadnt advised against all but essential 
travel to the country they were visiting. And, even after the FCO advised against all but 
essential travel abroad on 17 March 2020, it also said at that time that its not currently 
advising British people to immediately return to the UK if they are overseas, except for a few 
countries detailed in our travel advice. The country Mr and Mrs O were in wasnt one of the 
listed excepted countries
So, although, they mightve received some reassurance and guidance about the 
circumstances in which UKI would cover a curtailment claim, I think its unlikely that Mr and 
Mrs O wouldve returned to the UK before 14 March 2020; the date on which UKI has now 
used as the effective curtailment date. And, as Ive stated above, although I can understand 
Mr and Mrs Os increasing unease at being away given the emerging situation in the country 
they were visiting and their reluctance to stay there for any longer, I dont think I can fairly 
conclude that was UKIs fault. And from what Mr and Mrs O have told us, it appears that it 
was very difficult securing flight backs to the UK around that time.
Mr and Mrs O ended up rearranging their own flights back to the UK. They said they got the 
first available flight back as a lot of flights had already been booked. Theyre unhappy 
because they hadnt been able to speak with UKI before doing this and the policy says 
before cutting a holiday short, the policyholder must call its emergency assistance 
immediately and before making any arrangements. 
I understand the point Mr and Mrs O seek to make. However, in this case, UKI hasnt sought 
to take issue with them not obtaining pre-approval from its emergency assistance before 
rearranging flight to come home early. So, although this may have been a worry for Mr and 
Mrs O, Im satisfied that the £100 offered fairly compensates them for that.And whilst I can understand why not receiving an update after the stipulated timescale 
wouldve been frustrating, and resulted in some inconvenience having to chase UKI, again I 
think the £100 fairly takes this into account. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to accept or reject my decision before 
7 July 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman