DRN-4324175
The complaint
Mrs Ps unhappy with how Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) handled her request to change 
her postal address in relation to two savings accounts she held. Unfortunately, matters 
escalated to the point where Mrs P eventually closed her accounts before theyd matured 
and moved her savings elsewhere.
What happened
Mrs P called YBS on 20 March 2023 to let it know shed changed her address. She wasnt 
happy that YBS wasnt able to change its records over the phone and told her she needed to 
write to it or visit one of its branches to make the change. 
Over the course of the next two weeks, multiple calls were made either by Mrs P or YBS to 
get the outstanding issues resolved. These included Mrs P wanting written confirmation of 
her change of address and that a cheque YBS had sent to Mrs P hadnt been delivered to 
her and needed re-sending.
YBS sent its final response to Mrs P on 23 March 2023 (which it re-confirmed the following 
month). It apologised for the experience shed had in trying to change her address and 
confirmed it would be updating its systems with her new address in the next three to five 
working days. YBS also confirmed both Mrs Ps accounts would be closed, as shed 
requested, without any loss of interest.
Still unhappy with YBSs response, Mrs P referred her complaint to this service. Among 
other things she felt YBS had been rude to her over the phone, causing her stress and 
anxiety, and that it had mis-handled her subsequent complaint. Our investigator considered 
there were aspects of the service provided by YBS that could have been better, but that 
feedback had been given to the individuals concerned and that YBS had acted quickly to 
resolve the issue of the missing cheque.  
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigators findings. As such, the complaint was passed to me 
to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I recognise that Mrs P feels strongly that YBS has let her down. Thats evidenced by the fact 
that shed been a long-standing customer up until the events in question, yet felt she had 
little or no option but to close her accounts down. YBS accepts that the service it provided 
could have been better and has apologised to her. Its also confirmed its provided feedback 
to the members of staff concerned about how they dealt with the problems Mrs P faced.
In terms of compensating Mrs P for her experience, I note that YBS closed both of her 
accounts down as shed requested and ensured she didnt lose any interest despite this 
happening before theyd reached maturity. 
Im aware that Mrs P feels this is insufficient and that YBS hasnt gone far enough to help 
her. Having listened to the calls she had with YBS and taken account of her submissions, its 
clear to me that the experience was frustrating and upsetting for her. I take the view that, on 
occasion, Mrs P was left with the feeling that some individuals she spoke to were being 
unhelpful and were disinterested in her situation. Whether or not that was actually the case, I 
can see how Mrs P got that impression. 
Notwithstanding the apparent attitude of some of its members of staff, I can see that YBS 
attempted to act as quickly as it could once it became aware things had gone wrong and 
given the limitations of Mrs P holding branch-based accounts. In addition, some issues that 
arose were entirely down to events beyond YBSs control, chiefly Mrs Ps non-receipt of 
correspondence in the post. I couldnt reasonably hold YBS responsible for that when post 
was correctly addressed. 
In terms of its handling of the complaint itself, I see that YBS issued its final response letter 
to Mrs P three days after shed complained. And it confirmed the position set out in that letter 
once again less than three weeks later. Both of those responses were sent well within the 8-
week timeframe set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, for dealing 
with complaints. Im satisfied from the available evidence that YBS attempted to keep Mrs P 
informed of its progress, for example during the numerous phone conversations that were 
held, while it was looking into her concerns. 
Taking account of all this, I find that YBS has acted fairly to put things right for Mrs P overall.
My final decision
For the reasons given, and while fully appreciating Mrs Ps strength of feeling about the 
matter, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman