DRN-4195319
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Ms F used to hold with Santander UK Plc. The essence 
of the complaint is that Santander instructed solicitors to begin legal action for possession of 
the mortgaged property whilst Ms F was trying to sell it. The possession proceedings were 
halted when Santander was notified that a sale, and redemption of the mortgage, were 
imminent, but Ms F is unhappy that Santander added its solicitors costs to the mortgage. 
She thinks the legal action, and the resulting costs, were unnecessary. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Ms F and Santander; theyve been 
set out in correspondence between both parties. Im also aware that the investigator issued 
a comprehensive response to the complaint which has been shared with all parties, and so I 
dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Instead, Ill provide a brief summary of the key points, in my own words and then focus on 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ms Fs mortgage had been in arrears since 2018. In early 2021, she agreed a sale and 
Santander was informed. By the autumn of 2021, the sale hadnt completed, and Santander 
was becoming concerned at the worsening position on the mortgage account. It asked for 
evidence a sale was continuing, but this wasnt received. That concerns was made worse 
when it was contacted by Ms Fs freeholder with a request for payment of overdue charges 
under the lease. 
Santander instructed its solicitors, a Firm Ill call E, to pursue court action, which it did. The 
case was due to go to court, but was put on hold when solicitors for Ms F confirmed a sale 
was imminent. The sale went ahead, and the mortgage was redeemed, but Santander 
added the costs incurred by E to Ms Fs balance. 
Our investigator didnt think Santander had acted unfairly in adding the costs to the 
mortgage account; however, she identified a slight over charge, seeming the result of two 
digits being transposed. She recommended the case be settled by Santander refunding the 
overcharge (£3.60) to Ms F, with interest.
Santander agreed to do this; Ms F asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that the terms of the mortgage agreement gave Santander the right 
to debit the mortgage account with litigation charges incurred in connection with action to 
enforce its security. So Im satisfied Santander had the right, contractually, to add legal costs 
to the mortgage. The next question for me to decide is whether it was fair of Santander to do 
so in the specific sets of circumstances that applied in Ms Fs case.
Thats the crux of the case before me, and having thought hard about, I think it was fair for 
Santander to add the costs, with the caveat that the amount charged was slightly wrong. Ill 
explain why.
I agree Santander was informed that Ms F was selling her home; but that was at the 
beginning of 2021. By the time it had instructed E to begin the action that generated the 
disputed legal costs, more than six months had passed, and despite several requests, it 
hadnt received the evidence it had asked for that the sale was still ongoing. The arrears 
were substantial and getting worse, and Santander was then put on notice of the freeholder 
dispute.
To be clear, this case doesnt turn on the merits of the freeholders claim and whether Ms F 
was justified in withholding payments requested by the freeholder. Merely the existence of a 
claim like that from a freeholder to a lender will be of concern to a lender, because it has the 
potential to threaten a lenders security for the debt as a whole.
Nor is it about the communication that passed between Ms F and her solicitors. Its about 
what was or was not relayed on to Santander (or E on its behalf). Despite our investigator 
giving her several opportunities to do so, Ms F has not been able to show that Santander (or 
E on its behalf) received the information that might have avoided it taking the action that Im 
satisfied it was justified in taking.
In summary, Santander didnt treat Ms F unfairly when it instructed E to take the action that 
generated the legal costs; nor did it treat her unfairly when it added the costs to her 
mortgage account. However, it did slightly overcharge her, so it is entirely right that it should 
refund her the over charge.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I order Santander 
UK Plc to:
pay Ms F £3.60;
calculate and pay Ms F interest on £3.60, at 8% simple per annum* from the date the 
mortgage was redeemed up the eventual date of settlement.
*In the event Santander decides it should deduct basic rate income tax from the interest 
element of this award, it must then provide Ms F with the relevant tax certificate, so that she 
can, if appropriate, seek a refund the tax from His Majestys Revenue and Customs.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman