DRN-3897681
The complaint
Mr C complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited (trading as Hastings Direct) is 
responsible for poor telephone service in connection with a motor insurance policy. 
What happened
For the year from late September 2021, Mr C took out a motor insurance policy. Hastings 
Direct acted as an insurance intermediary between Mr C and an insurance company. He 
agreed to pay the yearly cost by monthly direct debits. The last payment of about £25.00 
was due on 30 August 2022.
On 1 September 2022, Hastings Direct and Mr C had a telephone conversation about the 
possible renewal of the policy for another year. The call ended abruptly. Mr C called back 
and complained to Hastings Direct about being cut off and about call waiting times.
On 8 September 2022, Mr C spoke to Hastings Direct complaints team.
By an emailed final response dated 8 September 2022, Hastings Direct upheld the complaint 
about the call on 1 September 2022. Hastings Direct apologised for the waiting time and the 
lack of a call back. It offered to review and cover any phone charges for the call. The final 
response said that the policy wouldnt renew in late September 2022.
Mr C brought his complaint to us on 8 September 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Hastings Directs apology was fair and reasonable.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He had chosen to leave Hastings Direct. 
Hastings Direct reached out to him to stop him going elsewhere. Hastings Direct 
hung up on him, then didn't ring back.
Hastings Direct continued to disrespect him as a customer.
Hastings Direct terminated another call on 8 September 2022.
The first complaints person upheld his complaint. So he lost his opportunity to go to 
another insurance broker.
The second complaints person arranged a time to call him back but had no intention 
to do so.
There was more than enough evidence to warrant compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules is that  before we can investigate a complaint  the 
consumer mustve made that complaint to the regulated firm and waited up to eight weeks 
for a final response.
In Mr Cs case, the complaint was on 1 September and the final response was on 8 
September 2022. I cannot make findings on events and complaints that post-date the 
complaint on 1 September which was answered by the final response on 8 September 2022. 
That includes the following:
the complaint about the termination of a call on 8 September 2022;
the complaint about the renewal from late September 2022; and 
the complaint about the complaints-handler in October 2022.
Ive weighed up the call recording on 1 September with the screen print record form Hastings 
Direct. I dont conclude that Hastings Direct deliberately terminated the call. I find it more 
likely that there was a technical issue.
Hastings Direct didnt ring Mr C back. So he had to ring. Hastings Direct acknowledged in its 
final response that this was a shortcoming in its service.
Ive thought about the impact on Mr C. I accept that he felt that Hastings Direct was 
disrespecting him. Nevertheless, I dont consider that Hastings Direct caused Mr C a level of 
distress and inconvenience that calls for monetary compensation. 
Im satisfied that the apology from Hastings Direct was enough. I dont conclude that it would 
be fair and reasonable to direct Hastings Direct to pay Mr C compensation or to do any more 
in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont direct Hastings Insurance 
Services Limited (trading as Hastings Direct) to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman