DRN-3782197
Complaint
Mr K complains that he fell victim to a scam and that the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
wont reimburse him. 
Background
In late 2021, Mr K asked a mechanic to carry out substantial works to his car. He was told 
the cost of the works would be around £4,000. He paid a deposit of £2,000 to allow the 
mechanic to buy materials in advance. The work was subject to significant delays, parts of 
the job werent completed, and Mr K says that his car was no longer roadworthy once this 
mechanic returned it to him. He had to obtain a quote from a different mechanic for over 
£3,000 just to return the car to a roadworthy state. He says that other people have fallen 
victim to the original mechanic. He attempted to resolve the issue directly, but eventually the 
mechanic broke off all contact with him.
Mr K contacted RBS and told it hed fallen victim to a scam. It looked into things, but it 
declined to pay him a refund. It said that Mr K wasnt really the victim of a scam. Instead, he 
had a private civil dispute with the mechanic. 
Mr K was unhappy with that response and so he referred a complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. Mr K disagreed with the Investigators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me to consider and come to a final 
decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no disagreement here that Mr K authorised the payments and so, under the relevant 
legislation, hes considered liable for them at first instance. However, RBS is a signatory to 
the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. Under the 
terms of that code, the starting position is that a customer who has fallen victim to a scam 
should be reimbursed. However, it specifically excludes private civil disputes, such as 
where a customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but 
has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the customer is otherwise 
dissatisfied with the supplier.
When considering whether a dispute such as this should be considered a civil dispute or a 
scam, its necessary to look at the intention of the supplier and whether its clear that they 
set out to deceive or defraud the customer. Theres clearly a dispute between Mr K and this 
mechanic about the quality of the work that he paid for. But that doesnt mean that hes a 
victim of fraud, even if the mechanic didnt carry out the job with reasonable skill. Im afraid I 
agree with the conclusions of the Investigator that this is a private civil dispute, rather than a 
scam.
Information shared with us about the bank account that Mr K his money to suggests that its 
use appears to have been consistent with someone carrying out this sort of work. Its also 
significant that up until now there have been no other allegations of fraud made to the bank. 
If the mechanic had scammed multiple people then I wouldve expected at some of them to 
have contacted their own bank and alleged fraud, as Mr K did. I think the fact that this 
doesnt appear to have happened supports the argument that RBS has made that this is 
really a civil dispute.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, but I do not consider RBS to have 
done anything wrong by refusing to reimburse him under the CRM code. It follows that I will 
not be directing it to take any further action.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman