DRN-3881804
The complaint
C and C have complained Metro Bank PLC wont refund money they lost as the result of a 
scam. They also believe the two amounts were authorised incorrectly and Metro Bank acted 
outside the terms of the account mandate.
What happened
There are two directors of C and C who Ill refer to throughout as Mr C and Mr K.
C and C opened a new business account with Metro Bank in September 2020. When the 
account was set up Mr C and Mr K understood theyd specifically requested dual 
authorisation by themselves when setting up new beneficiaries. Their account manager, 
Mrs A, was set up as a nominated person.
C and C regularly made large-value international transfers to one of its regular suppliers. In 
December 2021 Mrs A received an email supposedly from this supplier. This confirmed new 
account details and ensured they provided all the information C and C would require to 
believe this was genuinely from their supplier providing new bank account details. 
Mrs A set up the new bank account details. These were approved by Mr K. Two payments 
were made on 3 and 23 December 2021. These payments totalled €363,836.
Within a month the genuine supplier queried non-payment of recent invoices. C and C 
realised theyd been scammed. They immediately informed Metro Bank what had happened. 
Metro Bank initiated requests to the beneficiary bank for any remaining funds. However they 
confirmed they wouldnt refund C and C as these two payments didnt fall within the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code.
C and C brought their complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator reviewed the 
evidence. She agreed these payments didnt fall under the CRM Code. She also reviewed 
the heart of C and Cs complaint that Metro Bank had made an error in allowing the 
beneficiary account to be set up and payments to be made without the authorisation of both 
Mr C and Mr K. She didnt believe Metro Bank had made any error.
C and C has asked an ombudsman to consider their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
There are two aspects to this complaint. I have considered both. Firstly whether it would be 
reasonable to expect Metro Bank to have taken additional steps when C and C were making 
these payments, and then I go on to decide whether the two payments were properly 
authorised. This latter aspect seems to me to be the crux of this complaint.
Its generally accepted that Metro Bank has an obligation to follow C and Cs instructions. So 
in the first instance C and C is presumed liable for its loss. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Metro Bank 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
I have reviewed the details of the scam  including the emails Mrs A received. Its clear that 
this was a sophisticated scam set-up. One character only differed the email address from the 
scammer to C and Cs genuine suppliers email address. Directors and relevant individuals 
were copied into all emails (although not using the correct email address) suggesting all 
parties were aware of what was happening throughout. 
I have considered whether Metro Bank should have intervened when C and C made these 
payments. And I dont think so. C and C regularly made international payments of a high 
value so as long as the payments were properly authenticated and authorised  which Metro 
Bank believed these payments were  I dont think its surprising that no warning was made 
or any intervention took place.
Ive also considered whether Metro Bank did enough after it was notified about the scam? 
Metro Banks records show they contacted the overseas beneficiary bank as soon as they 
were made aware. However this was some time after C and C had made the final payment 
in December 2021. Its not unusual for fraudsters to move money on very quickly. Nor is it 
unusual for receiving banks based overseas to not respond to these requests  theyre not 
always subject to the same regulations as UK-based banks. I think Metro Bank made 
reasonable efforts to recall C and Cs payments. 
Ive gone on to consider whether these two payments were properly authorised. To assist 
my decision, I have reviewed all the account details C and C, as well as Metro Bank, have 
supplied to us. I have also considered the terms of the relevant legislation, the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017.The account details supplied to us includes the business account mandate signed by both 
Mr C and Mr K on 10 September 2020. This confirms both Mr C and Mr K as authorised 
signatories and allows one to sign (for any amount). This provides details of Mrs As 
authority as a nominated person. Underneath her name this states two to sign (for any 
amount). 
In addition I have seen the commercial online banking form signed by Mr C and Mr K on 
16 September 2020. This confirms transaction and daily limits on the account for different 
payment types. This also certifies that following a C and C resolution that Mr C and/or Mr K 
are authorised to set up additional users. This confirms Mrs A as an additional user. 
I appreciate C and C has stated that a tick under dual authorisation within this form means 
they believe that both Mr C and Mr K must authorise all transactions. I dont agree. It means 
that transactions must be dual-authorised but this requirement would be met by Mrs A 
inputting details and then either Mr C or Mr K authorising. 
In addition Ive reviewed the full terms and conditions of Metro Banks commercial online 
banking. I dont believe what happened runs contrary to those.
Theres an additional document, signed by both Mr C and Mr K on 22 October 2020. This 
confirms both Mr C and Mr K as super-users. This confirms both directors can self-release 
payments without the need for approval by another second user.
Mrs A input the new bank account details and also input details of the two payments. I can 
see from the evidence presented by Metro Bank that these were then authorised by Mr K. 
The audit trail provided confirms the timing of both Mrs As input and Mr Ks authorisation.
Im aware that C and C has argued that as Mr C and Mr K were super-users but that as this 
didnt apply to beneficiary creation, both were required to approve the set-up of new bank 
details. They have also stated that as dual authorisation existed, both of the directors were 
required to approve any actions Mrs A carried out. 
However I dont agree. 
C and Cs mandate confirmed that dual authorisation was required. This would be a two-step 
authorisation process where one party would input, and the other party  one of the two 
directors  would authorise. Mrs A could input then either Mr C or Mr K would provide the 
required authorisation. Im satisfied that authorisation by two parties  Mrs A and one other  
would be seen as dual authorisation.
As dual authorisation existed then I believe this would supersede the fact that super-users 
alone couldnt authorise beneficiary creation. 
I have considered what happened when the account was opened and beneficiaries were 
created for the first time. The director representing C and C has confirmed they were unbale 
to recall the detail. It appears from what Metro Bank has provided to us that payment details 
were input by the account manager, then approved by one of the directors (generally Mr K). I 
have no record that C and C were unhappy with those arrangements. I am satisfied that this 
constituted dual authorisation in line with the approvals Metro Bank held on behalf of 
C and C.
Theres no dispute that Mrs A input the payment details and Mr K authorised the two 
payments. 
I dont dispute C and C was scammed but under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of C and Cs mandate with Metro Bank, Im satisfied both transactions were 
authorised. I, therefore, will not be asking Metro Bank to take any further action.
I appreciate the massive financial loss that C and C has undergone. I can well understand 
that my final decision will disappoint them. This, however, marks the end of our services 
involvement. C and C may wish to pursue other avenues if they believe they have a case 
against Metro Bank.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold C and Cs complaint against Metro 
Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C and C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman