DRN-2182623
The complaint
Mr W complains that a payment he made to his credit card with Bank of Scotland plc trading
as Halifax, to pay off the part of his balance that attracted the highest interest rate, wasnt
applied by Halifax to that part of his debt.
What happened
Mr W knows that Halifax is supposed to apply any payments he makes, first, to the balance
that is charged at the highest interest rate. So he made a payment just after his 0% interest
offer expired, expecting it to be used to pay off that balance. It wasnt, and he complained.
When Halifax responded to this complaint, it said that Mr Ws payment had been used to
reduce the highest balance, not the one with the highest interest rate. It said it would send
some feedback about the wording used, and it has already refunded a month of interest
charges, as a goodwill gesture. When the complaint came to our service, Halifax said that it
was satisfied that Mr Ws payments had been applied in line with the terms he signed when
he opened the account. And it was satisfied that the monthly statements clearly confirm the
way in which payments will be allocated.
Mr W said he thought we should look at this, because he thought the bank could be regularly
overcharging. He thought that Halifax needed to reprogram its computers so that payments
are applied to the highest interest being charged at the time the payment is made, not at the
time the last statement was produced. Mr W said what Halifax had done in refunding some
interest hadnt totally solved the problem, but he had managed to juggle things around so he
was no worse off financially. He didnt think he shouldve had to spend the time doing this.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought that the payments
had been applied in the way set out on Mr Ws statement.
Mr W said he still thought that the payment had been wrongly allocated. And he said that the
wording on Halifaxs statements could easily be amended to say what Halifax apparently
means. Because Mr W and our investigator didnt agree, the case was then passed to me for
a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
As background, I should set out that since 2010, there has been an agreement 
between credit card companies that they will apply payments to the balance 
attracting the highest interest rate first. This is now an obligation, which is set out in 
the FCA handbook as follows 
A firm must first allocate a repayment to the debt subject to the highest rate of
interest (and then to the next highest rate of interest and so on) for:
(1) the outstanding balance on a credit card;
Mr Ws interest free offer expired on 8 October 2019. Its not clear what interest rate 
would be charged on 8 October 2019, but by 9 October, Mr B would be incurring 
interest on this portion of his balance, at 15.2% APR.
Mr B paid more than the total of this part of his balance. He paid this on 9 October 
2019.
Halifax has argued that it hasnt done anything wrong, and its done what it told Mr W 
it would do. A point that appears both in its terms, and on the statements it issued, 
seems to me to be relevant.
We use your payments to pay off balances charged at the highest interest 
rate first and so on down to balances with the lowest interest rates. This 
means the more expensive balances are always paid off first.
Halifax hasnt explained how this has been met. It appears to be suggesting that the
payments should be applied to items in the order of the interest rates set out in the
breakdown of balance which appears on Mr Ws statements. That sets out the 
interest rates charged at the time each statement was produced. That is certainly 
how Halifax has applied this payment by Mr W. 
Its not at all clear how this meets the requirements set out above, when a situation 
like Mr Ws occurs, and a payment is made after a reduced interest offer has expired, 
but before that expiry is detailed on the next statement. 
Our service isnt a regulator. I cant make Halifax reprogram its computers, as Mr W 
would like, so no one is treated in this way in the future. I can only look at whats 
happened in his case.
In other circumstances, I would ask Halifax to rework Mr Ws account so that the 
payment he made on 9 October was applied to the item on his balance with the 
highest interest on that date. But Mr W told us hes moved his finances around, and 
whilst this caused him considerable inconvenience, he says hes not financially worse 
off. So I wont ask Halifax to rework his account. Instead, Ill ask it to pay him £200 
now, in recognition of the trouble hes been put to, not just in making this complaint, 
but in making sure he isnt worse off.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr W said that he didnt feel he had to add anything. Halifax said that it agreed to make the 
payment I suggested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Mr W £200 in 
compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman