DRN-2838034
The complaint
Mr W says Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans lent to him irresponsibly. He said 
that at the time he had a significant amount of other debt. So, he couldnt repay this loan 
sustainably. He thinks Dot Dot Loans should have seen this and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Dot Dot Loans provided to Mr W in August 2020. 
Mr W borrowed £1,000 and he was due to pay nine monthly instalments of £207. I 
understand Mr W hasnt fully repaid the loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
He said that:
Dot Dot Loans should have found about his long history of reliance on short term 
lending and other credit.
The credit checks it did didnt show the full picture of his finances and it should have 
looked into his income and expenditure more closely.
He was working in a sector that was badly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and 
Dot Dot Loans should have factored this into its assessments.
He doesnt think the late payment markers on his credit file are fair as he was badly 
affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and Dot Dot Loans should have exercised greater 
forbearance.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Dot Dot Loans should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and Ive explained why below. 
For this loan Mr W needed to repay around £207 for nine months after taking it. Ive seen a 
record of the information Mr W provided when he completed his loan application. Mr W said 
he had a monthly income of around £2,500 and he had regular monthly outgoings of £1,000. 
So, it would have been reasonable for Dot Dot Loans to think that Mr W could afford the loan 
repayments. 
And Dot Dot Loans did obtain some information from Mr Ws credit file. This broadly 
supported what Mr W said at the time of application. It did show that he had a reasonable 
amount of longer-term credit, but it also showed that he hadnt had any problems repaying 
this in the recent past. And he didnt have any other short-term loans. So, I dont think this 
information wouldve led Dot Dot Loans to believe that Mr W couldnt afford the repayments 
he was committed to making. 
Mr W has outlined some personal and financial difficulties he was having at the time, and I 
dont disagree that these looked to be significant. I hope things have improved for him now. 
And the crux of Mr Ws objection to the lending is that he feels Dot Dot Loans should have 
made more in-depth checks. Had it done this, it wouldve seen these problems and not lent 
to him. 
But given the amount he borrowed against his income, and that this was right at the start of 
a lending relationship, I dont think its reasonable to say Dot Dot Loans should have looked 
into his finances in more detail. As Ive said above, checks should be proportionate, this 
does mean a business could do less at the start of a lending relationship when the amounts 
borrowed look reasonable. I think this is the case here. 
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Dot Dot Loans was made aware of 
any financial problems Mr W mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. I dont think that it should have not lent to him because 
of the industry he worked in may have been experiencing problems due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. It should have been evident form the checks it made into Mr Ws circumstances 
how these issues were affecting his finances. I think it was reasonable for Dot Dot Loans to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Dot Dot Loans did for this loan 
were proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable. 
As our adjudicator noted Dot Dot Loans has followed the industry regulators guidance about 
exercising forbearance due to the Covd-19 pandemic. And it does have a responsibility to 
report accurate information on Mr Ws credit report and it seems to have done this here. Mr 
W seemed to accept our adjudicators explanations about this part of his complaint so I wont 
comment further.
Overall Im not upholding Mr Ws complaints about this lending. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman