DRN-1865415
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires 
and referred to here as BM) wrongly allowed an unknown third party to change the address 
on one of their mortgage accounts. This has had an impact on Mr and Mrs Ms credit files 
and their mortgage interest rate, and they are asking BM to put this right.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Our decisions are published, and so Ive been careful not to include any information which 
might (a) identify Mr and Mrs M or (b) disclose information about BMs security procedures. 
Briefly, Mr and Mrs M have a number of buy-to-let mortgages with BM. On 21 March 2017 a 
caller identifying themselves as Mrs M called BM. After asking a number of security 
questions (some of which were not answered correctly, but some which were), the call 
proceeded and the caller changed her correspondence address. BM explained that, before 
the address could be changed, any joint account holder would also need to call. On 
27 March someone who said he was Mr M called and, after passing security, the contact 
details on the account were changed.
Mr and Mrs M say that these callers were not them. They only discovered this had happened 
some time later, after their mortgage broker identified issues with their credit files, and they 
learned that a number of loans had been taken out about which they knew nothing.
Mr and Mrs M complained to BM, but the complaint wasnt upheld. BM was satisfied that the 
caller had correctly answered security questions to enable the call to proceed. BM changed 
the address back to Mrs Ms correct correspondence address and has de-linked the 
incorrect address from Mr and Mrs Ms credit files.
Dissatisfied with BMs response, Mr and Mrs M complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. They say that there has been an impact on their credit files, and in addition, theyve 
not been able to move to a new fixed rate mortgage.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that the callers had provided sufficient information to enable them to pass security.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They have reiterated that incorrect information had been given by 
the caller pretending to be Mrs M, and that, once incorrect information had been provided, 
the call should have been terminated by BM. Mr and Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry for the length of time its taken for this case to reach me for a final decision. 
Unfortunately there is a high demand for our services and I thank Mr and Mrs M and BM for 
their patience. 
The case file sets out in great detail what happened, and there are both call recordings and 
transcripts. I will not repeat all those details here, for the reasons I explained above. I 
confirm, however, that Ive listened to all the available call recordings and read everything 
Mr and Mrs M and BM have provided. Ive taken note of all the arguments made on both 
sides.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. Im satisfied the callers were able to provide sufficient information to enable them to 
pass BMs security. I dont know how they got that information, but they were able to answer 
questions correctly. I agree that some information they provided was incorrect, and in 
particular Mrs Ms surname was wrongly spelled. But where other information is correct, Im 
not persuaded that the incorrect information was sufficient to put BM on notice that it wasnt 
speaking to Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M are concerned about the security processes BM uses, but thats not 
something we can comment on. Our role is to look at individual disputes between consumers 
and financial businesses. We dont regulate those businesses and we cant make them 
change their procedures; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority, which deals with 
broader issues affecting banks and financial businesses.
BM followed its internal processes in setting up a verification system, which applies to all its 
customers, as it is required to do by the regulator. Somehow third parties had managed to 
obtain sufficient personal information about Mr and Mrs M which allowed an address to be 
changed. The address has since been changed back, and Im told BM has de-linked the 
address from Mr and Mrs Ms credit files. I appreciate this has been very distressing for 
Mr and Mrs M, but I dont think BM is required to do anything further. 
Its open to Mr and Mrs M to set up a protective registration with CIFAS, the fraud prevention 
database. For a fee of £25 per person  for two years CIFAS will place a flag against Mr and 
Mrs Ms details and any businesses which are members of the database will be aware of 
this, preventing fraudsters from using Mr and Mrs Ms information to apply for products and 
services. An application for a protective registration can be made online via the CIFAS 
website. We can provide the details, if Mr and Mrs M would like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman