DRN-2297983
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society (NBS) didnt handle his chargeback request 
properly.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr A hired a car, online, for a forthcoming holiday, through a company I 
shall call D. On arrival at the rental agency (R) the car assigned to him had multiple dents 
and scratches. Mr A complained but R said it had no alternative vehicle for him. Mr A took 
the car under protest, used it for the duration of his holiday and returned it. Mr A made a 
complaint to D and R without success. He then asked NBS to make a chargeback claim on 
the basis that D had misrepresented the car to him, which they declined on the basis that D 
and R had fulfilled their obligations in providing the service.
Mr A approached this service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute, but our 
investigator thought that NBS had acted correctly in declining his request. Mr A didnt agree 
and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know my summary of what happened is brief and Ive seen the parties went into a lot more 
detail. Im going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and 
it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Although our investigator has already made the point I think it is worth repeating that in 
deciding this complaint I am not looking at the actions of either D or R, only the way in which 
NBS dealt with Mr As chargeback request. 
In circumstances such as arise here, a bank will generally look at two ways to try and help 
their customer get their money back. The first is by use of the Chargeback scheme, and the 
second is a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Dealing first with a chargeback dispute, this is a process by which some disputes are 
resolved between card issuer, in this case NBS, and merchants under the relevant card 
scheme rules. These rules are set by the card provider, whose symbol is on the card, which 
in this case is Visa. Visa has an agreement with banks as to how its cards are used, which 
covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be made, which of course if successful 
would result in the customer having the money they spent on the card returned. The rules 
are quite strict, and NBS doesn't have the power to change them. A further important 
consideration is that NBS isnt required to ask Visa for a transaction to be reversed and need 
only do so if it thinks its likely to succeed. So, it follows that a dispute will only be likely to 
succeed if there is sufficient evidence to support it.
Ive looked at the car hire contract with D and this is silent as to whether the car to be hired 
to Mr A was to be free of dents and scratches. Equally it is silent as to the mechanical state 
of the vehicle. However, one can imply into the contract that it would be a term that the 
vehicle would be sufficiently road worthy to allow it to fulfil its function of transporting Mr A 
around during his period of hire. There is no evidence here that the vehicle was 
unroadworthy. I think I can also take note of the fact that almost all holiday rental vehicles 
will have been used by many others before, in this case, Mr A took possession of it. So, it is 
reasonable to expect that it would have signs of previous use. I do not think one could imply 
into this contract, as one might in the sale of a new car, that it would be free of cosmetic 
defects.
Very clearly this vehicle had dents and scratches. The check-out document dated 
19 December evidences such on virtually all rear panels, all nearside panels, some off-side 
panels and the bonnet. There is no evidence that these dents of scratches impaired in any 
way the functioning of the car, and Mr A has not complained that it was defective in that 
regard. Indeed, he was able to use it without any problems, other than being unhappy about 
its appearance. 
So, I conclude that in so far as the purpose for which Mr A hired the car, that being for 
transportation, the service he bought was delivered. I can empathise with Mr A that the car 
he hired was dented and scratched and that he would have preferred a vehicle without such 
cosmetic defects. I therefore also conclude that any chargeback claim would most likely 
have not succeeded. It follows that I think NBS were correct in declining the chargeback 
request.
Turning to section 75 CCA, this gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier 
of goods or services, and the provider of the credit, if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. But there are financial limits. Section 75(3)(b) says that 
claims cant be made, 
so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000.
In Mr As case the price was under £100 and so is not within those limits. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman