DRN-2424915
The complaint
Mr P complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) failed to act on an instruction 
from his financial advisor to move funds between his pension accounts. As a result he says 
a part of his pension savings were left uninvested for a period of one year.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision relating to this complaint in November 2020. In that decision
I explained why I thought part of Mr P's complaint should be upheld. All parties have
received a copy of that provisional decision, but in summary I said;
Mr P held pension savings with Aegon. His savings were held in two separate self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) accounts. He used a financial advisor to help him manage those 
savings, and gave the advisor authority to communicate with Aegon on his behalf.
In November 2018 Mr Ps advisor sent an email to Aegon to request that a portion of his 
pension savings were transferred from one SIPP to the other. Aegon accepted that it 
received, and failed to act on, the transfer request that the advisor sent on behalf of Mr P. 
That error wasnt identified until September 2019 and as a result Mr P lost out on some 
investment returns. What I needed to decide was to what degree it would be fair and 
reasonable for Aegon to compensate Mr P for the investment losses he suffered from part of 
his pension savings remaining in cash for almost a year.
I noted that Mr P had received quarterly statements of his pension investments. The first of 
those was issued around two weeks after the transfer had been requested, with the 
remaining statements following in February, May, and August 2019. Mr P told us that he had 
only looked at the headline valuations in those statements rather than the underlying detail.
Aegon said that its terms and conditions limited its liability. In particular these required Mr P 
to notify Aegon of any error in its correspondence within 30 days, or otherwise any 
compensation would be limited to the value of the loss within the 30 day period. But I didnt 
think it was reasonable to apply these terms to an error that Mr P was unaware of.
I accepted that Mr Ps advisor had requested, and not received, confirmation that the 
transaction had been completed. But on balance I didnt think it reasonable to expect an 
advisor to monitor every one of the many transactions being instructed. Instead I thought the 
balance lay more with Aegon to make sure that its processes ensured the successful 
execution of instructions. And I thought it was reasonable that Mr Ps advisor might only 
closely review his investments around the time of any planned review  and that was what 
identified the error in September 2019.
I thought that the initial statement issued to Mr P around two weeks after the transfer had 
been instructed was sufficiently proximate to the transfer instruction for it to not have drawn 
the error to his attention. But I did think that a more detailed examination of the later 
statements would have resulted in the error being identified earlier. But in saying that I didnt 
think the approach taken by Mr P in only looking at the headline figures was particularly 
uncommon.
Ultimately I thought that this error occurred because Aegon failed to act on an instruction it 
was given. So my starting point for deciding the compensation that is due to Mr P was that 
Aegon caused the loss and so should pay compensation to Mr P for the whole period that 
his funds remained in cash. I hadnt seen anything that would reasonably make me think that 
Mr P had an opportunity to mitigate any of that loss until he received the account statement 
in February 2019. So I said I intended to hold Aegon entirely responsible for the loss up until 
that point. 
Mr P didnt identify there had been a problem when he received his statements in February, 
May, and August. I accepted that he could have done if he had read those statements more 
carefully. But I was also mindful that he would only have needed to do so because of the 
error that Aegon had made in not processing the transfer. I thought that was the root cause 
of the problem, and so I didnt think any failure by Mr P to identify the problem entirely 
absolved Aegon of any responsibility for the losses caused by its error from February 
onwards. So I thought that the losses incurred between February and September 2019 
should be shared equally between Aegon and Mr P.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence. Mr P has said that 
he accepts my provisional decision and does not wish to make any further comments. Aegon 
provided us with some comments. Although I am only summarising here what Aegon has 
said, I have considered its entire response carefully before writing this decision.
Aegon believes it is being held responsible for Mr Ps failure to read his account statements 
in detail. Had he done so Aegon suggests it is reasonable to conclude that he would have 
noticed the error and notified it to Aegon far sooner. And it thinks the same applies to its 
application of its T&Cs. If Mr P had been aware of the error, as it thinks he should have 
been, he would have been able to mitigate his losses.
Aegon has shown that Mr Ps advisor received monthly ongoing remuneration. It thinks that 
the advisor should have identified the error sooner and so should accept a degree of 
responsibility for not ensuring that the transaction had completed successfully.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered the response that Aegon has provided to my provisional 
decision I am not persuaded that I should change the conclusions I reached. But I would like 
to comment further on the specific matters that Aegon has raised.
I entirely accept that Mr P could have identified the error sooner had he read his statements 
in greater detail. And for that reason I am directing that some of the investment losses he 
incurred should be shared between him and Aegon. But I dont agree that it is reasonable to 
extrapolate that the payment of a monthly charge to the advisor suggests that it should be 
providing monthly analysis of Mr P investments. I think it more reasonable that charge 
should be seen as an annual charge that is being paid in monthly instalments. It is for Mr P 
and his advisor to determine what review frequency is appropriate for his investments, and 
as I understand the arrangement, the chosen frequency was annual.
As I said in my provisional decision, ultimately Mr Ps investment losses were caused by 
Aegons failure to process an instruction that it accepts it received. Whilst there might have 
been opportunities for Mr P, or to a much lesser extent his advisor, to mitigate those losses, 
they wouldnt have arisen save for the failure by Aegon at the outset. So I think the 
compensation I proposed in my provisional decision and set out below is a reasonable reflection of the relative responsibilities for the losses Mr P suffered.
Putting things right
Aegon has shown us how it has calculated the loss Mr Ps investments suffered between 
November 2018 and February 2019. Mr Ps pension savings werent invested by the DFM 
until September 2019, and were placed into a range of different funds. So to assess the loss 
Aegon has looked at the numbers of units in each fund that could have been purchased for 
the same amount of money in November 2018 and February 2019. And it has paid half of 
the loss shown by that difference to Mr P.
As I explained earlier, I think Aegon should pay Mr P the whole of the difference between 
November 2018 and February 2019. I am however also mindful that the approach to 
assessing the loss that Aegon has taken is far from perfect  the funds the DFM might have 
chosen in which to invest in November 2018 might be very different to those that were 
chosen in September 2019. However Mr P did not suggest any alternative method of better 
deciding how his funds would have been invested in November 2018 in response to my 
provisional decision. So I am basing my assessment of the loss on the methodology used by 
Aegon.
Using the methodology already demonstrated, Aegon should assess the loss of investment 
returns suffered by Mr P for the portion of his SIPP that failed to be transferred as per the 
instruction from his financial advisor in November 2018. Aegon should assess the loss in two 
portions;
For the period November 2018 to February 2019, Aegon should take responsibility 
for the entire loss.
For the period February 2019 to September 2019 Aegon should take responsibility 
for 50% of any loss
Aegon should add together the two calculations to determine the amount of loss. That loss 
should then be increased to reflect the average investment returns on Mr Ps SIPP being 
managed by the DFM between September 2019 and the date of settlement. Aegon may 
deduct, at the conclusion of that calculation, any redress that it has already paid to Mr P in 
relation to these investment returns.
Any redress should be added to Mr Ps SIPP. If it isnt possible to make this payment into 
Mr Ps SIPP or doing so would have protection or allowance implications, it should be paid 
directly to Mr P as a lump sum. In that case the compensation can be reduced by 15%. The 
loss was to Mr Ps SIPP and so would otherwise have been used to provide pension 
benefits, 25% of which would be tax free and the rest would have been taxed at the rate he 
will pay income tax in retirement  I have assumed that will be at basic rate which is 
currently 20%. And so the 15% deduction adequately reflects this.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct Scottish Equitable Plc to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman