DRN-3862635
The complaint
Mr P complains that MBNA Limited unfairly reduced the credit limit on the credit card he held 
with it.
What happened
Mr P has held a credit card with MBNA for several years. He says he has always managed 
the account well, paying off the balances in full and for a number of years the credit limit for 
the card has been £18,000.
In May 2022 MBNA reviewed the credit cards limit following adverse information being 
recorded on Mr Ps credit file. It made the decision to reduce the credit limit to £500 and 
notified Mr P of this by letter and SMS. Mr P says he was travelling at that time hed received 
the SMS and, found that with a credit limit of £500, the card was no longer really useable. He 
says in light of his past management of his account he considered the action of MBNA to be 
unfair and disproportionate. 
Mr P contacted MBNA and asked for an explanation. He says he was upset when talking 
with the agent that it was suggested he may run away with the money. The agent said the 
reduction had been made because of the significant adverse information that had recently 
been reported on Mr Ps credit file. This had led to the view there may be a risk of Mr P not 
being a position to be able to repay the credit. They said the decision was part of its 
obligations as a responsible lender. The agent said that if the adverse information was a 
mistake then once Mr P had rectified that, then the credit limit of the card would be reviewed.
Mr P made a complaint about MBNAs decision to reduce the credit limit. He said it should 
have considered his management of the account over the years hed held it, that he had no 
other borrowings and had substantial savings as part of any decision as to whether there 
was a risk he wouldnt be able to make repayments. He said MBNA had failed to take a 
balanced and rational view of his position.
MBNA didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the decision to reduce the credit limit had 
been based on the information in Mr Ps credit file. It also confirmed that as these decisions 
have an immediate effect no notice of a reduction is given.
Mr P was unhappy at MBNAs response and complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld as he didnt think MBNA had acted 
unfairly. He said that MBNA has the right as set out in the terms and conditions of the credit 
card to review the credit limit and to reduce the limit if a risk is considered to be present. Our 
investigator said this was a business decision. 
Mr P disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said that there was nothing balanced, 
fair or reasonable in a credit limit being reduced from £18,000 to £500. He says that a 
reduction may have been warranted in the circumstances but not one of nearly 85%.
Mr P says that the decision taken by MBNA was based on one event reported on his credit 
file that he been unaware of and which was not accurate. He says that there was no 
justification for MBNA to consider he was at risk of being unable to pay.
Mr P says that a clause to arbitrarily act on one piece of information amounts to an unfair 
contract term as MBNA didnt look at the history of his account. He says other credit 
providers didnt make the same decision as MBNA.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Reviews of customer accounts are undertaken by banks on a regular basis as part of their 
regulatory obligation as responsible lenders, so MBNA was acting reasonably when it looked 
at Mr Ps financial information.
And it isnt disputed that a significant event had been recorded in Mr Ps credit file in the form 
of a County Court Judgement (CCJ) having been issued against him. And while I 
appreciate Mr P is now disputing that court order as he says he was unaware of any 
proceedings, I cant reasonably say that MBNA wasnt entitled to act when it became aware 
of the change to Mr Ps credit file. It has said that if that information is rectified then it will 
review the credit limit for Mr Ps credit card.
Looking at the credit cards terms and conditions Ive seen that MBNA is entitled to decrease 
the credit limit if it considers there is a risk that a consumer would not be able to repay what 
is owed. And while I appreciate Mr P feels that such a clause may amount to an unfair 
contract term, Im afraid I disagree. I dont think this term is unusual in credit card 
agreements and its in accordance with the ongoing responsibility to make sure that the 
credit limits MBNA offers its customers are suitable and affordable. So, I think its reasonable 
for a bank to be able to review lending decisions and make adjustments to the level of credit 
it considers is appropriate to offer. The issue for me to consider is whether MBNA acted 
fairly in applying this term to Mr Ps credit card account. 
Mr P says that MBNAs decision is unjustified, disproportionate and unfair when weighing up 
the one piece of adverse information against the history of his management of the account 
and his other financial affairs. But I would expect a CCJ to have a significant impact on a 
consumers credit record and I dont think it would be unreasonable for a bank to view that 
seriously when making decisions as to risk. 
It is for MBNA to set its own internal lending criteria and it isnt my role to interfere with that. 
So, I cant say that MBNA should have given greater weight to other aspects of Mr Ps 
financial information. And although a bank does not have to disclose its internal lending 
criteria as this is commercially sensitive information, I think MBNA has been clear at the role 
the adverse information in Mr Ps credit file has played in its business decision.
So, although I appreciate the frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr P by having the 
credit limit reduced by as much as it was, I cant say that MBNA has acted unfairly when it 
made this business decision. It informed Mr P of the reason it had made the lending decision 
that it had and offered to review that decision should his information change. While I 
appreciate Mr P considers that a smaller reduction in the credit limit may have been justified 
I cant say MBNA has made an error in the size of the decrease it applied.
I also appreciate that other credit providers may have taken a different view to MBNA but 
that doesnt mean MBNAs decision was necessarily unfair. As set out above, this is a business decision using its own lending criteria, and other providers may have considered 
risk differently. That would be a matter for each credit provider to decide.
Mr P felt that the MBNA agent hed spoken to about the reduction in his credit limit had been 
rude in their attitude and inferred he would run off with its money. I have listened to that call 
and I didnt think the agent had been intentionally rude or flippant. They had tried to explain 
the link between the decision and the information on Mr Ps credit file together with the 
impact this had had on the considered risk of non-payment by Mr P. I accept Mr P disagrees 
that there is any such risk due to his financial circumstances but as set out above this risk is 
assessed using MBNAs lending  criteria. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P with my decision, but Im not upholding his complaint as I think 
MBNA acted fairly and within the terms and conditions of the credit card when it reduced the 
credit limit due to the change in the information recorded on Mr Ps credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman