DRN-3620876
The complaint
Mr F and Mrs S complain that Nationwide Building Society approved a mortgage on their 
property and that they are now unable to sell it because of its position above a restaurant.
What happened
Mr F and Mrs S applied for a mortgage on an apartment at the end of 2016. Nationwide got 
a valuation and approved the mortgage and Mr F lived in the apartment but now wants to 
sell it to move on. Mr F and Mrs S also commissioned a Homebuyers Report. The surveyor 
they instructed noted I do not foresee any undue difficulty on resale in normal market 
conditions provided that the necessary works are carried out to a satisfactory standard. But 
Mr F and Mrs S are having difficulties selling the apartment as the valuers from a number of 
lenders have turned it down because of a restaurant below. Mr F and Mrs S want Nationwide 
to provide them with a solution or compensation as they say Nationwide shouldnt have 
approved a mortgage for them in an apartment above a restaurant.
Our investigators view was that Nationwide is entitled to rely on a valuation report from a 
firm of professionally qualified surveyors and the report was for Nationwides purposes and 
not for Mr F and Mrs S. So, he didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr F 
and Mrs S disagree saying in summary that they were disputing Nationwides inability to tell 
them that the restaurant could be a problem  when that was not what was recorded by the 
surveyor but has influenced other lenders decision subsequently.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr F and Mrs S that having bought this property a few years ago that they 
have had difficulty selling it now that Mr F wants to move on. But my role is to see if 
Nationwide are at fault for that. Nationwide didnt advise Mr F and Mrs S to buy the flat - that 
was the decision of Mr F and Mrs S influenced presumably by the Homebuyers Survey they 
obtained from the surveyor they engaged. Nationwide didnt obtain a survey but a valuation 
for mortgage purposes the purpose of which was to tell it whether the property was suitable 
for it as security for the loan. This was for its own purposes as it made clear on the face of 
the Report
This report has been prepared solely for the Societys purposes. It is not a structural report 
and is based upon a limited inspection. It may not reveal serious defects and may contain 
inaccuracies and omissions. It is unlikely to be adequate for a purchasers purposes and 
should not be relied upon.
YOU ARE STRONGLY ADVISED TO OBTAIN A FULLER REPORT ON THE PROPERTY
Thats a very clear statement that Mr F and Mrs S shouldnt rely on it when they bought the 
property as it was solely for the Societys purposes. I note that it could be that Mr F and 
Mrs S didnt get the report, but they werent relying on it as they got their own Homebuyers 
Report. I appreciate that Mr F and Mrs S feel strongly now that as one of their purchasers 
says they were unable to get a mortgage from Nationwide because of the restaurant below, 
that any issue about that should have been identified by Nationwide when they bought it. 
It could be that Nationwides lending criteria changed or that the new valuer noticed the 
restaurant whereas the previous valuer didnt. Either way, thats a matter between the valuer 
and Nationwide as the valuation was for the Societys purposes only. Mr F and Mrs Ss 
problem is that they cant sell the property they bought. But as I say Nationwide didnt advise 
them to buy the apartment  all it did was give them the loan which they then used to buy it.  
So, I cant fairly hold Nationwide responsible if they have difficulties selling it. I also note that 
one of the solutions suggested was for Nationwide to give Mr F and Mrs S a buy to let 
mortgage and convert the property to a rental property. But Nationwide dont do buy to let 
mortgages, so I understand why it didnt agree to that. For the above reasons I dont believe 
that Nationwide did anything wrong and, so, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman