DRN-3316443
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R (the trustees) have complained on behalf of the trust about Old Mutual 
Wealth Life & Pensions Limited (OMW) cancelling its investment instructions.
What happened
In December 2019 the trustees purchased a collective investment bond (the bond). This was 
to form part of a discounted gift trust arrangement.
OMW advised them to invest the total amount of the bond into a selection of underlying 
open-ended investment companies (OIECs) in six equal monthly instalments. One of the 
selected underlying funds was a property fund which formed 5% of the total investment.
On 27 March 2020 the trustees received notification from OMW that due to the coronavirus 
pandemic the property fund involved in their investment, along with other property funds, had 
been suspended. The letter also included a line saying All other aspects of the service we 
provide you with remain unchanged  this suspension only affects the Property fund(s) 
youre invested in. 
The trustees have said that on the basis of this letter they took no further action because 
they thought only that specific fund within the selected investment was affected and that the 
other 95% of the monthly phased investments would continue to be invested as planned. 
They didnt refer the matter to their adviser and state they relied on the statement above.
In a statement for the investment in April 2020 the trustees saw the phased investments for 
January February and March were completed as instructed. However, soon after this they 
found that the planned phased investments for April and May hadnt taken place. They later 
found the investment for June also didnt take place.
When the trustees raised this with OMW it explained the phased instructions were cancelled 
for the entire investment because of the suspension of the property fund involved. OMW 
stated that it was unable to backdate the phased switches as no error had occurred and the 
suspension was legitimate action taken by the fund manager.
OMW did however agree to restart the phased investments and the trustees via their adviser 
instructed OMW to do this on the basis of the original fund selections but with the 5% 
allocated to the suspended property fund to be held in cash.
When addressing the trustees complaint OMW felt it had acted in line with its terms and 
conditions. As the trustees werent happy with the response, they referred the complaint to 
this Service.
The trustees have made the following complaint points:
The information OMW sent to them about the suspension of the fund was misleading 
and unclear.
OMW have relied too much on the terms and conditions which whilst these were read 
when the investment started are not something the trustees would have referred to 
regularly.
The letter didnt make it clear the questions and answer (Q&A) section should be 
read.
The letter sent to the adviser from OMW was clear about the implications of the 
suspension for the phased investment plan but this wasnt sent to the trustees and it 
should have been.
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt be upheld. She 
was of the view that OMW had acted in accordance with its terms and conditions. She 
acknowledged the adviser was sent clearer information but was of the view that the trustees 
information was enough for them to look further into the matter upon receipt of the letter. She 
also thought it was reasonable the trustees speak to their adviser about this when it 
happened.
The trustees didnt agree with the assessment and remined unhappy with the actions of 
OMW.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding the compliant.
There are essentially two main issues I must decide upon  whether OMW acted correctly 
when it cancelled the phased investment instructions and whether it communicated what the 
consequence of suspending the property fund would be sufficiently and clearly.
The terms and conditions of the bond state at section 9.7(d) that the instruction to phase will 
be cancelled if, amongst other things, other circumstances occur about which OMW will 
inform the investors of at the time. In this case the other circumstances were the suspension 
of the property fund involved in the bond. It isnt unreasonable this fund was suspended 
given the pandemic at the time and effect of that on the stock market - indeed many property 
funds across the industry were suspended for the same reasons at that time. So I am 
satisfied that the circumstances are covered by the terms and conditions. I am also satisfied 
that OMW wrote to the trustees about this  on 27 March 2020 informing them as well as 
writing to their adviser on 19 March 2020 again informing him of the suspension of the fund 
and what that would mean for his clients.
So in this respect OMW acted in line with the terms and conditions it was bound under.
Turning now to how this was communicated and whether it was clear and not misleading.
The letter to the trustees dated 27 March 2020 stated why the property fund had been 
suspended and explained that the suspension was in line with the financial service 
regulations and had been implemented to safeguard the interests of all investors. It went on 
to say:
All other aspects of the service we provide you with remain unchanged  this suspension 
only affects the Property fund(s) youre invested in. Whist the property fund(s) are 
suspended you will not be able to pay money in or take money out of these funds with the exception of a few specific transactions which are detailed in our Q&As. You will also be 
unable to move your money from the Property funds into other funds (a transaction known 
as fund switching).
The letter also advised the reader to refer to the Q&As section as well as their adviser for 
further details.
First and foremost as mentioned above, the terms and conditions are clear that phasing 
would be affected so really there shouldnt have been any misunderstanding on the part of 
the trustees to know how they would have been affected by the suspension of the property 
fund. I know they feel OMW has unfairly relied upon the terms and conditions because the 
trustees wouldnt have regularly referred to them to know immediately that they would be 
affected by the suspension but I dont think this is a reasonable point of view. Terms and 
conditions exists to set out the basis of the relationship between two parties and to establish 
its parameters of that. It is therefore a very important documents and one which I think the 
trustees should have had to hand in this specific time. It was their responsibility to have 
understood the terms and conditions and whether and how they would be affected by the 
suspension.
The trustees assumed that the bond wouldnt be affected but I see no basis for them doing 
this. Not only is that assumption at odds with the terms and conditions but the letter is fairly 
ambiguous so I dont think the trustees could have assumed with any certainty that their 
phasing instructions would or wouldnt be affected. Bearing the terms and conditions in mind 
I therefore think its reasonable that they would have checked with OMW and/or their adviser 
to find out.  I also think it would have been reasonable for the trustees to have read all the 
links to the information that were contained in the letter which included the Q&As. I see no 
reason why they would not have done this - given how important the investment was for 
them why did they not find out as much information about the suspensions as they could. I 
think this would have been a normal course of action and one which didnt need OMW to 
overtly tell them to do. 
I have also considered the email that was sent to the adviser. This email stated:
Any trades that were in progress when the funds became suspended may also be affected. 
If your clients were impacted we will be in touch directly. Any rebalancing or phasing options 
involving the suspended funds will be cancelled upon transacting. Rebalancing will be 
reinstated after the suspension and we will contact you for alternative phasing instructions of 
needed.
This, in my view, is clear that the phased investments would be affected by the suspension. 
It isnt unreasonable the adviser was also informed of this given the adviser was involved in 
setting up the investment only a few months prior to this. I think the adviser should have 
informed the trustees that the phased investment would be affected. At the very least its 
reasonable to expect the trustees to have contacted their adviser when they received the 
letter on 27 March. 
OMW has provided confirmation that the email to the adviser was sent on 19 March 2020 
but it has also provided details that show the email wasnt read. The reading of the email is 
not the responsibility of OMW. It seems to me OMW did all it could  it informed the trustees 
and the trusts adviser of the suspensions and the implications of this and OMW cant be 
held responsible for the adviser not reading the email. And while the trustees are not happy 
the adviser was informed by email, because it couldve gotten stuck in a junk folder, email is 
now the normal way of business to ensure quick delivery and action if required. Furthermore, 
its reasonable that any business checks its junk folders on a regular basis just in case emails 
are caught in there. So overall, I am satisfied that OMW provided the necessary information to the trustees in 
relation to the suspension of the property fund and the effects of this. This information, along 
with the terms and conditions of the bond, set out that phased investments would be 
cancelled in the given situation, so I see no reason why the trustees assumed otherwise. 
And while some information OMW provided was clearer than others, the terms and 
conditions were clear as was the information provided to the adviser. So I dont think the 
trustees acted reasonably when they assumed the bond would be affected.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman