DRN-3861578
The complaint
Mr D has complained that he was able to make gambling transactions through his Monzo 
Bank Ltd account despite having a gambling block in place. 
Background
Mr D opened a bank account with Monzo in May 2022. In July 2022 he contacted Monzo to 
say that despite having applied its gambling block to his account, he was still able to gamble 
through online gambling websites based outside of the UK. 
Monzo responded to Mr Ds complaint and explained that while the block could be really 
useful unfortunately it wasnt guaranteed to work with every gambling retailer online as not 
all of them identify as gambling websites. It offered to manually add the websites Mr D had 
been gambling through onto its list of blocked websites so that neither Mr D nor any other 
Monzo customer using the gambling block would be able to use these websites in the future. 
Following this in August 2022 Mr D contacted Monzo again to say that he was still gambling 
with overseas gambling websites. He said that the gambling block was the only reason he 
had opened his Monzo account. He explained that as a gambling addict he was unable to 
prevent himself from using these websites and so was dependant on Monzos block working 
properly. He said that the block had failed to work and he wanted Monzo to refund all of the 
money he had lost to gambling websites. 
Monzo responded and explained that the issue with the block was that it could only identify 
those websites that are categorised as gambling websites. If the website uses a different 
kind of categorisation, such as gaming, or entertainment, the block wont work.  As such 
Monzo didnt think it had done anything wrong and so refused to refund the money Mr D had 
lost. 
Unhappy with Monzos response Mr D brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint for him. She found that Monzo had applied the block 
properly and had responded appropriately and sympathetically to Mr D when it became 
aware of his addiction. She didnt think Monzo was responsible for the losses Mr D incurred, 
so she didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr D remained dissatisfied and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint again and 
so it has been passed to me to consider. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and for much the same 
reason. 
I appreciate that this is a very difficult situation for Mr D and I want to thank him for being so 
honest in his submissions. When a consumer discloses a vulnerability to a business, as Mr 
D has done, we expect that business to treat them with dignity and compassion and provide 
them with tailored support. 
When Mr D opened his Monzo account in May 2022, he didnt contact the bank immediately 
to inform it of his gambling problem, but he did apply the gambling block straight away. 
Unfortunately though Mr D was able to use his Monzo account to gamble despite the block 
being added to the account. Monzo has explained why this has happened, but I will repeat 
the explanation here as I agree it is correct.
Gambling blocks work by identifying the merchant category code (MCC) the retailer has 
applied to it. Different types of retailers have different codes, and there is a specific one that 
gambling websites are supposed to use. If a gambling merchant doesnt apply the correct 
code, things like gambling blocks wont work. This is because the algorithm that the block 
relies on is designed to identify the gambling MCC and not any others. So, if a different code 
is used, the algorithm wont pick up on it and the transaction will complete as normal. 
Unfortunately, this is an issue that impacts all gambling blocks, across all the financial 
institutions that offer them, and is not unique to Monzo.  
So, I cant safely say that its Monzos fault that Mr D found a way to gamble through his 
account. This is because Mr D himself has confirmed that the block did work with the 
majority of UK based gambling websites. But by using websites based outside of the UK    
Mr D found a way to circumvent the block. I appreciate that Mr D is an addict, and that 
addiction will drive people to behave in ways that are harmful. But I cant hold Monzo 
responsible for gambling merchants who have miscategorised their websites in a way that 
allows them to prey on vulnerable people such as Mr D. Had the merchants used the codes 
they are supposed to use, the block wouldve worked. 
The next thing I want to address is how Monzo responded once it became aware Mr D had a 
compulsive spending addiction. As mentioned above businesses are obliged to offer useful 
and tailored support to vulnerable consumers when they become aware of their vulnerability. 
When Mr D contacted Monzo to explain he was an addict, and had been gambling despite 
the block being on his account, Monzo replied by explaining why the block hadnt worked 
and also offered some additional support. It immediately manually added the websites Mr D 
had identified as gambling websites to its block thus preventing Mr D, and any other Monzo 
gambling block users, from being able to access those specific websites again. It also asked    
Mr D if there were any other websites hed been using that he wanted it to manually add to 
the block. Finally, it asked Mr D if he wanted to speak to someone from its vulnerable 
customer team so he could let it know specifically what sort of help and support he would 
find useful going forward. 
Mr D didnt respond to this request as he was still distressed that the block hadnt worked 
and that he had lost a lot of money. I can understand why Mr D wasnt prepared to speak 
with Monzo at the time, but I am pleased to see it responded in the way I would expect it to. 
And while Mr D is understandably frustrated and unhappy that the gambling block didnt 
work on every website he tried, Im satisfied that Monzo did all it could to explain the 
limitations of the block when it was first applied on Mr Ds account and offer genuine and 
tailored support to him when it became aware of his addiction. And for those reasons Im not 
upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr D and I hope he is getting the help and 
support he needs with his addiction. My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman