DRN-4435366
The complaint
Mr D complains about Saga Services Limited and the services they provided during his 
renewal process, which he feels led to an unreasonable increase in his renewal premium.
What happened
In November 2021, Mr D took out a motor insurance policy, sold and administered by Saga 
and underwritten by a separate insurer, who Ill refer to as A.
In September 2022, Mr D notified Saga of an accident hed been involved in. But Mr D has 
explained this was always intended to be notification only, as hed been hit in the rear by a 
third-party and he didnt intend to claim for any damage. 
On 23 October, Saga sent Mr D his renewal invitation, which included his renewal premium. 
But this premium was a significant increase from the previous year, as the claim he had 
notified them of had been factored into the renewal price. Two further renewal reminders 
were sent to Mr D on 5 and 11 November.
On 13 November, Mr D emailed Saga to raise a complaint about the premium increase. He 
didnt think it was fair for a claim to be recorded against him, when hed only made them 
aware on a notification basis. So, he asked for Sage to recalculate his premium without a 
claim being recorded and provide him with an apology for the upset hed been caused.
Saga called Mr D two days later, on the day of his renewal. And they explained they had 
spoken to the underwriter of the policy, who had amended the way the claim was reported 
and reduced the premium to less than the previous year. But Mr D explained hed since 
taken out another policy with another insurer. So, Saga explained their complaint response 
would contain confirmation of the way the claim was recorded, and its impact on Mr Ds no 
claims discount, that Mr D could provide to his new insurer so they could recalculate any 
increase that may have been applied on his premium. But Mr D remained unhappy with this.
So, Saga proceeded to issue their complaint response. And they explained they didnt 
uphold the complaint, as they thought the way they had initially recorded Mr Ds notification 
was correct and that they had taken reasonable steps to ensure Mr Ds renewal premium 
was fair, once his concerns had been raised. Mr D remained unhappy with this response, so 
he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the 
inconvenience the situation caused Mr D. But they didnt think this was caused by anything 
Saga did wrong. They were satisfied Saga had recorded the claim initially as they would 
expect, and they felt Saga had acted promptly and fairly by ensuring Mr D received a 
recalculated premium within the renewal period. While they noted Mr D had obtained 
insurance elsewhere by then, they didnt think this was the responsibility of Saga and so, 
they didnt think Saga needed to do anything more.
Mr D didnt agree, and he provided several reasons explaining why. This included, and is not 
limited to, him disputing a recalculated premium was offered. And after listening the call 
recording our service held, Mr D explained the premium offered at that point was irrelevant 
as hed already purchased alternative insurance. And he didnt think it was reasonable for 
Saga to expect him to complete the administrative work needed to recalculate the premium 
hed paid with his new insurer. So, he thought Saga should pay the difference.
Our investigator considered Mr Ds comments, but their outcome remained unchanged. Mr D 
continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr D. I dont doubt Mr D 
made Saga aware of the incident in September with the intention of it being for notification 
purposes only. So, when he realised this notification had resulted in a significant increase on 
his renewal premium, I can understand why hed be both shocked, and upset. And because 
of this, I can understand why Mr D feels unfairly treated and expects Saga to take the 
relevant steps to put the situation he finds himself in correct.
But for me to say Saga should do something more, such as compensate him the additional 
amount hes paid to another insurer, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something 
wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied the way they processed his notification was incorrect 
considering their role and what they are responsible for. Or, if I dont think it was incorrect, Id 
need to be satisfied they acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its important for me to explain what 
Saga were responsible and so, what Ive been able to consider as part of this complaint. In 
this situation, Saga were the broker and administer of Mr Ds policy. So, they were 
responsible for the policy sale, and the administration of any changes or updates on the 
policy itself. But crucially, they were not the underwriter. So, Saga were not responsible for 
determining the renewal premium, nor were they the business who were able to agree to a 
reduction. This was the responsibility of A. So, this decision wont focus on the pricing of the 
policy itself. Instead, it will consider the administration of the policy, to ensure it was 
administered in a way that ensured A had the correct information within a reasonable time to 
ensure any premiums were fair.
In this situation, I can see Saga did make A aware that Mr D had notified them of an incident 
in September 2023. And this is what Id expect them to do in their role as the policy 
administrator, as any notification may alter the risk of the policy. Ive seen that A have 
confirmed it was then their responsibility to contact Mr D in their role as the underwriter, to 
understand the claim circumstances before reporting it as closed.
It's not in dispute that at the time Mr D received his renewal invitation in October 2022, the 
claim remained open. And this was made clear in the renewal documentation. As Saga 
werent the underwriter, they werent the ones responsible for deciding on how the claim was 
reported, or the impact this had on the premium at that time. So, I cant say Saga acted 
unfairly at this point.I also note that Mr D had from 23 October to dispute the renewal premium. But he only did 
so on 13 November, two days before the policy was due to renew. So, I think this left Saga 
with a very short period of time to consider his concerns, and to try and ensure his renewal 
premium was one Mr D felt was fair.
I can see that within two days, Saga were able to confirm with A that the claim was closed as 
notification only, with Mr Ds no claims discount not being affected. And, that they were able 
to communicate this, and the reduced premium price, to Mr D on the day of the renewal. So, 
within the renewal period. I think this shows Saga acting fairly, and in Mr Ds best interests.
I also think this shows that, had Mr D contacted Saga sooner, they would most likely have 
ensured his premium was recalculated by in advance of his renewal date. And I think is 
something I must take into account as part of my decision.
But by the time Saga did communicate the reduced premium, Mr D had taken out alternative 
insurance. While I understand why he did this, I do think this was his own decision to make. 
And, as insurance policies are required to contain a 14-day cooling off period, I think Mr D 
was still able to renew with Saga and cancel the alternative policy hed taken out, should he 
have wished to do so. But I cant see Mr D did.
And on the call between Mr D and Saga, Ive heard Saga explain Mr D could use the 
documentation they had sent, including their final response letter, to confirm to his 
alternative insurer that the claim had been recorded as notification only, with his no claims 
discount not being affected, to ensure his premium wasnt adversely affected. And I think this 
information was both correct and fair.
While I appreciate Mr D doesnt think he shouldve been expected to do this, I wouldnt 
expect Saga to contact his new insurer on his behalf. This is because Mr D was the new 
insurers customer, not Saga. And, even if I did think they should do this, I note Mr D didnt 
provide any information about this insurer on the call before he terminated the call. So, I 
dont think Saga had any way of doing so. 
So, while I dont dispute Mr D has been caused some inconvenience through this process, 
leading to him taking alternative insurance elsewhere, I dont think this inconvenience has 
been caused by an error Saga has made, or any claim process they are responsible for. And 
because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about Saga Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman