DRN-4439657
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with how Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) dealt with his request to 
voluntary terminate his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr R was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
SMFL. The agreement was for £9,100 over five years; with 59 monthly repayments of £266, 
and a final payment of £276. 
Mr R said he submitted his request to voluntary terminate (VT) the agreement in April 2023. 
He said his intention was to take out a new agreement with SMFL as he wanted a new car. 
He said he told them his new finance offer expired on 21 April 2023, and he needed them to 
complete the VT process before that date.
He said that SMFL didnt process his request to VT. He said they told him this was because 
hed asked them to stop the VT process, and because he hadnt submitted the VT form  he 
said he didnt ask them to stop, hed only requested a settlement figure so that he could 
consider his options. 
He said this meant he couldnt obtain the finance offer hed hoped to get. He said SMFL told 
him they wouldnt offer him new finance due to a change on his credit file. Mr R said the 
delay meant he was having to pay an extra £5,000 on the new agreement he had been 
offered.
Mr R said he complained to SMFL in June 2023. He said they told him they found the 
original VT form hed submitted. He said they then processed the VT immediately, and 
collected the car on 25 June 2023.
Our investigator wrote to SMFL asking if they had provided Mr R with a final response to his 
complaint. She also asked them why it had taken so long to process Mr Rs request to 
voluntarily terminate the agreement.
SMFL didnt respond to any of our investigators requests for information. They confirmed 
theyd received the requests. It also looks like they never issued a final response letter to Mr 
R. She considered the complaint based on the information provided by him.
She felt that there had been an unnecessary delay between 4 April 2023 and 25 June 2023 
and Mr R should get compensation to reflect that.
She didnt think the delay was the sole reason for the higher interest rate Mr R was given so 
she felt it wasnt fair to hold SMFL responsible for it.
The case has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision because SMFL didnt 
respond to her view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it.
Regulated firms like SMFL are required to provide us with the information we have 
requested. Im satisfied that SMFL received our information requests as Ive seen their 
automatic acknowledgments. As theyve not responded Ive made my decision based on the 
information provided by Mr R. Our rules allow me to do this.
Im satisfied that Mr R signed the VT form on 31 March 2023 and submitted his request to 
voluntary terminate the agreement shortly after. I say this because Ive seen a copy of the 
form he submitted. Also, it appears that SMFL have now, belatedly, processed the request 
without Mr R having to resubmit the form.
Mr R said he needed the VT process completed by 21 April 2023, three weeks after he 
submitted the form. It would be reasonable to expect SMFL to be able to do it in that time. I 
cant say they must have been able to do it in that time. Thats because the whole process 
includes collecting and inspecting the car, involving third parties.
But it appears that SMFL took no steps to process Mr Rs request to VT  at least not until 
he formally complained to them. And even then they didnt complete the process until June 
2023, more than two months after he submitted the request. That is not fair or reasonable.
So Im satisfied that SMFL unnecessarily delayed the voluntary termination process and did 
not act reasonably. And they didnt act in line with the principles set out by the industry 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, in particular Principle 2 that requires SMFL to 
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence, and Principle 6 that requires them to 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Mr R described the impact on him. He said that he lost the finance offer he had due to 
SMFLs delay. This meant he had to accept a more expensive consumer credit agreement. 
Im not satisfied that the SMFLs delay was the sole reason for the higher cost of credit. 
There are a number of factors that impact on the cost of credit  market changes are one, 
but so are an individuals personal circumstances, their credit score, as well as a business 
lending criteria.
For the reasons Ive given above, Im also not satisfied that SMFL would have been able to 
complete the VT process in the time period Mr R requested.
So Im not requiring SMFL to compensate Mr R for the increased cost of the new agreement 
he voluntarily entered into.Mr R also said he had to insure his new car, and keep insured the car that was the subject of 
this agreement. He hasnt provided evidence of these extra costs so Im not requiring SMFL 
to reimburse him. In any case Im also not persuaded that I would require them to pay that 
cost. Thats because, based on the limited information I have, Mr R chose to purchase the 
new car before hed returned the original car  so whilst his decision may have been 
prompted by SMFLs delay, it was his choice to incur the extra cost.
I do think that SMFL should compensate Mr R for the distress and inconvenience their 
handling of the voluntary termination request had on him. He had to contact them to find out 
what had happened, and it wasnt until he had raised a formal complaint that they realised 
he had submitted the form on the original date  as hed told them on several occasions. 
This process took longer, and more effort from Mr R than was necessary.  I think an award 
of £225 fairly reflects the impact on him.
Putting things right
Im asking SMFL to do the following:
If they havent already done so, voluntary terminate the agreement as set out in the 
section Termination: Your Rights of the agreement, and collect the car from Mr R
Pay £225 to Mr R for the distress and inconvenience Ive described above
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint about Specialist Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman