DRN-4096028
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how Covea Insurance plc (Covea) dealt with some damage it caused 
to his piano, when it was dealing with an escape of water claim he made under his home 
insurance policy. 
Covea appointed various agents when dealing with Mr Ps claim, and it accepts 
responsibility for these agents. Any references to Covea within my decision include 
references to its agents too.
What happened
Mr P has explained that in late 2021 his property had an escape of water, which caused 
damage to the downstairs of his property. As his property was damaged, he made a claim 
with his home insurer, Covea.
Its my understanding that Covea accepted the escape of water claim. And, as part of 
handling that loss, Covea needed to deal with damaged contents that formed part of the 
claim.
Mr P has explained that an agent appointed by Covea attended his property on 
29 April 2022 to collect some water damaged furniture. Ill call the agent R.
Whilst collecting the furniture, R also inspected a digital piano to see whether this had 
suffered from water damage too. Mr P has said that when inspecting the piano, R damaged 
the item. Mr P said the wooden casing on the piano was scratched, and a rail on the forward 
edge of the keyboard cover was damaged too. 
Covea accepted its agent, R, had caused damage to the piano. And so, R took the piano 
from Mr Ps property, to fix the damage it had caused. But when the piano was returned to 
Mr P the damage was still present. Mr P said Covea apologised for this and offered him 
£150 compensation for loss of appearance to the item.
Mr P was dissatisfied with this. He said at one-point Covea asked him to send in details of a 
replacement piano. And at another point he was told by Covea that it would source a 
specialist to repair his original piano instead. However, Covea didnt provide Mr P with a 
replacement piano, or find another specialist. Instead, Mr P said Covea wanted its original 
agent, R, to collect the piano and try to repair it again. 
Mr P didnt consider this to be a reasonable course of action. He said R hadnt been able to 
repair the damage to the piano before  so couldnt see why it would be able to do this now.
To resolve the issue, Mr P wanted Covea to provide him with a replacement digital piano, 
based on the information he had provided it, which detailed an equivalent piano to the one 
he originally had  as the original digital piano was no longer available to buy. 
In Coveas final response letter to Mr Ps complaint it said it felt the best cause of action 
under the circumstances was for R to collect the piano and take it to a specialist to repair. 
As Mr P remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to this service for an independent 
review.
Our investigator originally thought Covea should provide Mr P with a replacement piano. 
They said the cost of this would be £5,389, which was the cost of a similar piano to Mr Ps 
original one, based on the research the investigator did when reaching their outcome. The 
investigator thought this was fair because from what they understood, R hadnt been able to 
fix the damage, and neither had any other repairer. So, they thought the reasonable course 
of action was to provide Mr P with a new piano.
Covea didnt agree. It said it wanted to send the piano to a different specialist repairer (so 
not R) but that Mr P wasnt enabling this. Covea said the damage to the piano itself was 
minimal, with slight bruising to the lid, and a damaged end rail it felt sure could be replaced. 
Given Coveas response, our investigator considered it to be reasonable for Covea to send 
the piano to a specialist repairer. Mr P accepted this resolution. But contacted this service to 
say Covea wasnt appointing a second specialist at all. Instead, R had contacted him to pick 
up the piano.
Covea said it was proving difficult to find a specialist repairer.
Our investigator then said as Covea couldnt find a specialist repairer and was only 
proposing for someone else from R to look at the piano again this didnt seem fair. So, they 
considered that Covea would need to either replace the piano or provide a cash settlement 
for it.
As the matter wasnt resolved, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Covea has accepted that an agent it appointed, R, caused damage to Mr Ps digital piano. 
So, I havent needed to consider whether it was Coveas agent that did this or not. 
As it was Coveas agent who damaged the piano, Im satisfied its reasonable that Covea 
ensure Mr P is put into the position he was in before its agent caused the damage. This 
being with a like for like, undamaged piano.
Covea has said it has attempted to do this and is still trying to. So, Ive considered what has 
happened. Ive done this by reviewing all of the information provided by the parties, including 
email correspondence. And from this, Im aware the original agent that damaged the piano, 
collected it to try and repair it. But the piano was delivered back unrepaired. So, I can see 
why R was no longer an option to repair the item.
Covea then spoke to a specialist repairer, to see if it would be able to repair the item. And in 
an email to Mr P, on 13 October 2022, Covea confirmed the specialist had responded to it, 
and said it wouldnt be able to repair the item either. So, Im satisfied that at this stage Covea 
had attempted to repair the piano through two different agents, and this proved 
unsuccessful.I havent seen any evidence within the file that suggests there was another repairer that was 
located, who would be able to repair the damage caused. As Covea hadnt been able to 
repair the damage to Mr Ps piano, Im satisfied it needed to find an alternative way to 
compensate Mr P for his loss. 
On 13 October 2022, Covea asked Mr P to send in the details of a like for like replacement 
piano, which Mr P provided. I think that Covea looking to replace the piano was reasonable 
at this stage  it hadnt found any avenues to return the piano to an undamaged state 
through another method. And based on what Ive seen, including recent correspondence, 
Covea still hasnt found another method to repair the piano. So, I think that replacing the 
piano is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. It means Mr P is put back in the 
position he was in before R damaged this piano. 
Mr P provided Covea with details of what he said was an equivalent digital piano on two 
occasions  on 15 July 2022 and 13 October 2022, noting he had asked a piano specialist 
for details of a nearest equivalent item, given the piano he originally purchased in no longer 
available. The piano detailed was a Yamaha CVP-805.
Covea hasnt said the item Mr P has suggested isnt an equivalent item or made any 
suggestion that it can source Mr Ps original piano. Given this, I think its fair and reasonable 
for Mr P to be provided with the piano he has explained is equivalent to his original one. This 
being the make and model detailed above. 
Covea has more recently told this service that it would like R to collect the piano again and 
reassess it. But this is only a reassessment and provides no assurances that R will be able 
to repair the damage  it wasnt able to do so before. So, I agree with our investigator that 
this doesnt seem fair. Covea also hasnt shown that any other repairer will be able to restore 
the piano to its pre-damage condition either. So, I dont find this to be a fair resolution to this 
complaint. 
Im aware that at one stage Covea offered compensation to Mr P for loss of appearance to 
the piano  rather than for a repair or replacement. I dont find that to be a fair resolution 
either. It doesnt place Mr P back in the position he was in, before Coveas contractors 
damaged the piano. And Covea has suggested that if Mr P used the piano, and forced the 
lid, it would continue to damage the piano. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest 
Mr P accept a loss of appearance settlement, knowing that Mr P wouldnt be able to use the 
piano as designed, with the potential for even further damage to be caused as a result of the 
original damage not being fixed. 
Linked to the possibility of causing further damage to the piano, Covea has said the original 
damage caused by its contractor was minor. And that it thinks Mr P has already caused 
further damage to the piano, by forcing the lid. It says Mr P assured it he wouldnt cause any 
further damage to the piano. Ive thought about this point. But Im satisfied it doesnt make 
any difference to the outcome of this case. Covea hasnt shown it would have been able to 
repair the original damage anyway.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea Insurance 
plc to either:
Provide Mr P with a replacement piano  this being a Yamaha CVP-805; or
Pay Mr P a cash settlement which enables him to purchase the Yamaha CVP-805 
himself.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman