DRN-4191744
The complaint
Mrs C complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) handling of her 
home insurance claim and the cash settlement amount offered.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved so Ill summarise 
what Ive found to be the key points.
In February 2022 Mrs C made a claim on her AA home insurance policy for damage 
to her conservatory in recent high winds. AA asked Mrs C to obtain quotes for repair. 
She liaised with three contractors who all said the extent and nature of the damage 
meant the conservatory could not be repaired and instead needed replaced.
AA sent its contractor (Company A) to validate the damage. They concluded it was 
caused by storm and could be repaired. Mrs C disagreed and sent further information 
from her contractors as to why a repair wasnt possible and raised concerns that the 
conservatory locks no longer worked, and it was still leaking.
In April 2022 AA said that if Mrs C didnt want Company A to carry out the repairs it 
could cash settle for these costs instead. Mrs C couldnt find anyone to do a repair, 
so she agreed for Company A to do this on the basis the work would be guaranteed.
There were then disagreements regarding a date for the works to start, which Mrs C 
says prevented her from going on holiday because in doing so she would be leaving 
her property unsafe as AA still hadnt fixed the conservatory locks by that point.
It took until May 2022 for Company A to attend Mrs Cs property to fix the 
conservatory locks and make safe. After which Mrs C told AA that the doors locked 
but were not in line and that water was still coming into the conservatory.
AA apologised for the delay to repair and explained it was still waiting on a report 
from Company A. It proceeded to chase this, but in June 2022 it told Mrs C that 
Company A would need to make another visit to her property to reassess the 
damage.
Mrs C complained that four months had passed since she logged the claim and water 
damage was ongoing. She said she was told the report AA had spent several months 
chasing would allow the works to go ahead, instead another visit was required.
AA accepted there had been delays and apologised. It explained that Company A 
would reattend to go through the proposed repair and explain to Mrs C how it would 
put the conservatory back to its pre incident condition. Mrs C was advised that if 
repair wasnt viable after this visit AA would meet replacement costs.
Mrs C agreed for Company A to reattend, and a repair was carried out in July 2022. 
Soon after Mrs C contacted AA to complain about the quality of the works and to 
explain the conservatory was still leaking  she provided photos to AA.
AA tried to arrange for Company A to revisit Mrs Cs property, but she declined 
saying she no longer trusted their work. AA therefore proposed a cash settlement of 
£5,579.12 (plus VAT) which it said was its limit of liability for a full roof replacement 
had Company A carried out the work. Mrs C didnt accept this amount as it didnt 
cover the cost to replace the conservatory. She brought a complaint to this service.
Mrs C made several complaints over the duration of her claim regarding AAs 
handling of it, its delays and poor communication and the quality of the repairs. AA 
accepted its service had not been to the standard it expected and upheld/partially 
upheld all the complaints made. It apologised and offered a total of £650 
compensation to Mrs C; however, it maintained its position on the cash settlement 
offer for a replacement roof and didnt agree to replace the conservatory.
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it. They recommended that AA 
appoint an independent party to visit Mrs Cs property and complete a report on the 
damage. They said Mrs C should then obtain two quotes to have work carried out as 
per the recommendations of the report and AA should then settle at these costs.
AA disagreed and said it was being asked to do something it could not fulfil as it only 
has one contractor available. The investigator asked if it would cover the cost of Mrs 
C arranging this, but this too was declined by it.
As a resolution wasnt reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. In June 2023, I 
issued a provisional decision on it, giving both parties time to respond. In it I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
AA accepts that the damage caused to Mrs Cs conservatory was the result of storm 
and has agreed to settle the claim. The dispute, and therefore what I need to 
consider in this case, is about how this should be done and at what cost.
Its worth noting that buildings insurance policies are generally policies of indemnity. 
That means any claim settlement should aim, where possible to put the policyholder 
back in the position they were in just before the loss or damage happened.
Its not in dispute that prior to the loss Mrs C incurred, her conservatory wasnt 
experiencing the problems shes now claiming for. So any settlement should 
therefore fully rectify these issues.
Under the policy AA is entitled to settle the claim by repairing or rebuilding the 
damaged part using its own suppliers or making a cash settlement to the policyholder 
if they wish to use their own supplier. If AA chooses to repair, it must ensure this fully 
rectifies the damage and is effective and lasting. 
The contractors Mrs C spoke to, inspected the damage and said a repair wasnt 
possible to rectify it. Reasons given for this were that the existing structure was 
damaged beyond repair, the extent of the damage made a repair impossible and 
that it wasnt a case of just repairing the roof but that the whole conservatory needed 
to be replaced due to movement (with a diagram illustrating this).
Company A said the structure hadnt moved but rather the gaps in the conservatory 
were caused by slipped roof sheets. It proposed to replace these, adjust the French 
doors and repair the box guttering. But after Company As repairs, the conservatory 
continued to leak  causing further internal damage and concerns around water 
escaping into electrics. Therefore, Im satisfied the repair wasnt effective and lasting.
To rectify matters AA said that Company A would need to reattend to attempt another 
repair. But Im aware that by this point the claim was several months down the line 
and Mrs C had understandably lost faith in Company As workmanship and reliability. 
Therefore, she didnt want them to reattend and she asked AA to appoint a different 
party to carry out the repairs. This doesnt seem unreasonable in the circumstances.AA admitted its service had fallen below standard. It spent a significant amount of 
time chasing updates and reports from Company A which delayed the claim. And at 
the initial site visit Mrs C understood Company A would make safe the conservatory 
but it didnt do this, leaving Mrs C with a conservatory that wasnt secure for a 
considerable period of time, which she says prevented her from going on holiday.
AA seemed to agree that Company A revisiting Mrs Cs property was unlikely to be 
the best decision. So it offered to pay a cash settlement. But this only covers roof 
replacement, which Mrs C says shes shown isnt viable to rectify the damage. It was 
for this reason that our Investigator said AA should appoint or pay for an independent 
party to assess the damage and make a final decision on the correct remedy.
Mrs C was happy with this as a way forward, but AA declined. So, in the absence of 
a further independent report, Im basing my provisional decision on the information 
already available to me, of which Im satisfied I have enough to fairly decide the case.
Essentially, I have three contractors all saying replacement is necessary. More 
recently one of those contractors has provided more detail explaining that the storm 
moved aspects of the conservatory framework causing it to no longer be watertight. 
It said the current repairs dont rectify this but simply divert the water ingress to a 
different position meaning the leak is ongoing. It says it cannot fit a new roof to the 
existing framework as this wouldnt be effective to rectify the damage caused by the 
storm and that replacement is the only viable option in its opinion.
Based on what Ive seen of the ongoing water ingress after Company As repair, Im 
persuaded by this opinion and those of the other contractors already submitted. This 
is further strengthened in my opinion by the fact that AA had the opportunity to 
complete a suitable repair but failed to do this, further persuading me that a lasting 
and effective repair isnt possible and so replacement is required.
It follows on balance of what Ive seen in this case, Im currently persuaded that the 
storm caused damage to Mrs Cs conservatory thats made it unrepairable. So, the 
fair way for AA to settle this claim is to replace Mrs Cs conservatory (on the original 
foundations). I currently think there are two options to fairly do this and I will consider 
which is the most suitable on receipt of the parties comments to this decision. 
The first option is that AA can appoint Company A to carry out the works to replace 
the conservatory meaning the costs would be covered under the claim and the works 
guaranteed. Im aware Mrs C was unhappy with Company As previous work, but this 
was in relation to repair. Company A would now be instructed to replace her 
conservatory so that may or may not change Mrs Cs thoughts on this.
If that option isnt suitable for either party, (I note AA has said it wouldnt reappoint 
Company A to avoid further distress) AA can cash settle, allowing Mrs C to appoint 
her own contractors to carry out the replacement. I note from the file that AA already 
asked Company A to review the quotes by Mrs Cs contractors and they stated that 
the quote for £9,388 (including VAT) to replace the conservatory was reasonable. 
So Im minded to say that the cash settlement should be for this amount as a starting 
point, taking into consideration any reasonable increases that may have occurred to 
the costs detailed in that invoice in the time since it was first produced over a year 
ago.
The service Mrs C received over the course of her claim with AA was poor. There 
were delays, lack of communication and failed promises. And shes been left with a 
leaking conservatory for a considerable period of time, which has understandably 
caused her considerable upset.
AA accepted its service was poor at times and apologised. From what Ive seen, it also paid a total of £650 compensation for this. On balance I think this fairly 
recognises the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs C in this case. AA should 
pay this to Mrs C if it hasnt already done so.
AA says it requested more detail from Mrs C about the holiday she says she missed 
due to the ongoing claim but is yet to receive this. If Mrs C wishes for AA to consider 
this part of her complaint, she should present the requested information to it.
AA didnt respond to the provisional decision. Mrs C replied saying she accepted it and that 
her preference would be to receive a cash settlement for the claim due to her previous 
experience with Company A. She provided an up-to-date quotation from the same 
contractors Company A had previously said priced accordingly for the work. The new figure 
for the replacement conservatory was £11,140 inclusive of VAT. 
Mrs C also explained that the quote to replace the conservatory didnt include the costs of 
the damaged internal works (electrics, plasterwork, redecoration) that were also included in 
the claim shed made to AA.
I considered Mrs Cs response and wrote to the parties again, providing AA with a copy of 
the updated invoice and setting out Mrs Cs preference of a cash settlement. I said that 
without a response from AA persuading me otherwise I was likely to conclude that a cash 
settlement at the invoice amount was fair.
I also set out Mrs Cs response regarding the conservatory internal works and that Id noted 
that during a call between Mrs C and AA in June 2022, it acknowledged that after the 
conservatory was repaired/replaced it would appoint an electrician to make the electrics safe 
and it would also scope for internals. 
With that in mind, I said I would likely direct it to pay Mrs Cs claim for the conservatory 
internals and electrics in line with the policy terms and conditions, alongside paying her the 
£650 compensation (if it hadnt done so already) and considering any losses she incurred as 
a result of having to cancel her holiday. I gave both parties further time to respond. Mrs C 
had nothing further to add. AA never replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out above Mrs C accepted my provisional decision setting out her preference for a 
cash settlement to replace her conservatory and she provided the updated quote for works 
as requested. She also highlighted the part of her claim for the conservatory internals which 
was to be considered once the conservatory was repaired/replaced.
Without a response from AA persuading me otherwise, my findings on these matters remain 
unchanged for the reasons already set out in my provisional decision and follow up 
correspondence as set out above.
It follows on balance of the information available to me in this case, I uphold this complaint 
and Ive set out how AA must put things right in my final decision below.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must:Pay Mrs C a cash settlement under the claim at an amount of £11,140 (minus any 
relevant policy excess) to replace her damaged conservatory.
Pay Mrs Cs claim for the conservatory internals and electrics in line with the policy 
terms and conditions.
Pay Mrs C the total offer of compensation of £650 if it hasnt done so already.
Honour its offer of considering any losses Mrs C incurred as a result of having to 
cancel her holiday on receipt of the relevant information its requested regarding this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman