DRN-3550118
The complaint
Mr D complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Everyday Loans provided a loan to Mr D as follows:
Date taken Loan 
amountTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
payableLoan status
23 March 2019 £5,000 60 months £351.50 £21,090 . Outstanding 
When Mr D complained to Everyday Loans it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. 
Mr D said he had signed up to this loan on the understanding that Everyday Loans would 
refinance the loan after an initial start-up period and that it was unaffordable for him 
otherwise. He told us that when he wasnt able to restructure his borrowing with Everyday 
Loans as he had hoped to do, this made his already difficult financial situation worse and led 
to extreme emotional, financial and mental distress which has had lasting consequences for 
him and his family.   
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought that Everyday Loans shouldve 
undertaken more thorough checks to ensure it wasnt putting Mr D into a position where he 
would be over-extending himself to repay the loan. So he thought Everyday Loans should 
pay redress for this  particularly as he didnt think that the loan looked affordable for Mr D. 
But he didnt think that Everyday Loans had misled Mr D about refinancing the loan and so 
he didnt uphold that part of Mr Ds complaint. 
Everyday Loans disagreed. It mainly said that it felt the way it had worked out affordability 
was fair and even using figures the investigator had suggested still showed the loan was 
affordable.
There was been a further exchange of correspondence but the complaint still wasnt 
resolved, so it came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. 
Lenders must work out if a borrower can sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside 
other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include more than just 
checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a 
proportionate check might also require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. And even if proportionate checks 
were done and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there 
was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the 
lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse 
consequences or more money problems for a borrower already struggling with debt that 
cant be repaid in a sustainable way.
Everyday Loans asked Mr D about his income and expenditure. It checked Mr Ds payslip 
information and worked out that his average earnings were around £1,962 each month. 
It also asked about the purpose of the loan and understood it would be used for debt 
consolidation  in other words, Mr D said he would use the loan to repay other debt. But he 
mentioned that not all the debt he intended to repay was his own - so Everyday Loans 
shouldve understood that effectively he planned to spend part of the loan. 
When working out what he could afford, Everyday Loans allowed for Mr Ds housing costs. 
Everyday Loans also took into account statistical information and factored into its 
calculations an amount that reflected the typical monthly expenditure someone in Mr Ds 
circumstances might reasonably expect to pay according to national UK averages worked 
out by the Office for National Statistics. 
This figure also included an extra buffer for any minor fluctuations in Mr Ds income or 
expenses or in case he needed to meet an unplanned expense. As well as this, Everyday Loans carried out its own credit checks in order to see Mr Ds 
credit history and understand what he was paying towards his current credit commitments. 
Everyday Loans saw that Mr D had three credit cards and a mail order account and the 
outstanding balance owed on these accounts was £4,650. 
It could also see from bank statements he supplied that he was typically overdrawn on his 
current account. He appeared to be often close to his £2,000 overdraft limit, bringing his total 
indebtedness typically to more than £6,000  it was around £6,400 on the day Everyday 
Loans did its credit checks. 
Our investigator didnt think Everyday Loans checks were proportionate. I've also noted the 
exchange between the investigator and Everyday Loans about whether it was fair to include 
additional income as part of its affordability assessment. I saw no evidence on the 
information provided to me that showed Mr D had any other regular income paid into his 
account other than his earnings. But I dont need to make findings on these issues as it 
makes no difference to the outcome. I think Everyday Loans saw enough in the information it 
had in front of it to have realised that Mr D probably wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. 
I say this because, despite its affordability calculation appearing to show that Mr D should 
have had enough disposable income each month to cover the loan repayments, I think 
Everyday Loans shouldve realised this was unlikely, given the picture painted overall by the 
other information it had gathered. 
Everyday Loans saw that Mr D seemed to be typically overdrawn by an amount broadly 
equivalent to a months pay - so it wouldve understood that there was no realistic prospect 
of his account being brought back into credit unless there was significant improvement in his 
financial situation. It had already factored in his bonus earnings when assessing his monthly 
income. So its hard to see how Everyday Loans mightve thought Mr D would be able to 
boost his monthly income much beyond the figure it worked out. Even if it did think Mr Ds 
family situation meant there was additional income coming into the household, I think its fair 
to say that it shouldve understood that money was paid to cover other specific costs - it 
wasnt intended to be available for the purpose of repaying additional expensive debt. 
And I think the fact that he was seeking a loan in order to repay what he owed elsewhere 
was a clear indication that Mr D was already struggling to manage money problems. Debt 
consolidation can be very expensive  Mr D would incur further interest charges on debt that 
already included interest. This loan would potentially cost him more than £16,000 over the 
loan term. So it isnt an option Id expect a borrower who was on top of their finances would 
be likely to want to choose. Although its £5,000 loan could potentially have cleared all Mr Ds credit cards and mail order 
account and reduced his overdraft by a few hundred pounds, Everyday Loans was aware 
that paying for his existing debt left Mr D struggling to stay within his overdraft. It follows that 
increasing his overall debt servicing costs (by taking out this loan) would make his financial 
situation worse  not just month to month but also bearing in mind the overall cost of this 
expensive loan.  
So I think it shouldve realised that this loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for 
Mr D  and it shouldnt have provided it. 
In coming to my provisional decision, I've taken into account that Mr D was sometimes 
paying more than the minimum monthly amounts owed to his credit cards and on his mail 
order account  paying just the minimum monthly repayments wouldve reduced his debt 
servicing costs, which in turn mightve improved his financial situation at the bank when he 
took out this loan. But I dont think this wouldve been enough of a saving to lead me to a 
different conclusion  especially keeping in mind that minimum monthly repayments are 
insufficient to make any meaningful inroads into revolving account balances and effectively 
extend the debt and add to long term costs. 
I can also see that when Mr D exceeded his overdraft limit on one occasion he was able to 
transfer £600 from a savings account to bring the account back within its overdraft limit. This 
suggests to me that he had a degree of flexibility in his finances that month. But £600 
wouldnt be enough to cover even two months worth of monthly repayments on the loan 
Everyday Loans was providing or significantly reduce his overdraft. Keeping in mind that he 
was signing up to make these loan repayments for the next five years and it looked like hed 
be relying indefinitely on borrowed money from the bank to pay his way, I still think this is a 
complaint I should fairly uphold. 
To sum up, although Everyday Loans understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation, it didnt have control over how Mr D used the money it provided as it paid the 
loan balance to him. And he had talked about spending some of the money on paying 
someone elses loan  so this would mean his own indebtedness (and the amount he had to 
pay towards it) would not be offset by the full amount of the loan. And even if Mr D had used 
the loan to clear his own debts, this would still have left the bulk of his overdraft in place, and 
the loan monthly repayments meant that Mr D would now have to pay more than hed been 
doing before taking the loan. So I dont think Everyday Loans had sufficient reason to think 
its loan wouldve improved Mr Ds overall position sufficiently to achieve a significant and 
sustainable improvement in his financial situation when all the indications were that Mr D 
wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. His debt servicing costs would still 
be beyond his means and so he would remain in serious financial trouble regardless.For these reasons, I plan to uphold Mr Ds complaint that he should not have been given the 
loan. I hope that settings things out this way is helpful and I invite Everyday Loans to 
reconsider its position.
Our investigator didnt think Everyday Loans had misled Mr D about the possibility of 
refinancing the loan so he didnt  recommend that Everyday Loans should pay redress for 
any other reason. Mr D hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes 
me think Everyday Loans acted unfairly towards Mr D in any other way. 
So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr D agrees with what Ive said in my provisional decision.
Everyday Loans has acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision but has not 
commented further. 
The deadline I set for responses to be received has now passed so I think its reasonable for 
me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr D to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending.
But he has been charged extra for lending that should not have been provided to him. In line 
with this Services approach, Mr D shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he 
borrowed.If Everyday Loans sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. 
Otherwise, Everyday Loans should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below and do the following:
 add up the total amount of money Mr D received as a result of having been given the loan. 
The repayments Mr D made should be deducted from this amount 
 if this results in Mr D having paid more than he received, then any overpayments should be 
refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made until the date of settlement)
 if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should try and arrange an 
affordable payment plan with Mr D bearing in mind its obligation to treat Mr D 
sympathetically and fairly if he still needs further time to pay
whilst its fair that Mr Ds credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, its unfair 
that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about a loan that was 
unfairly provided. So Everyday Loans should remove any negative information recorded on 
Mr Ds credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if 
he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman