DRN-3554276
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc trading as Tesco Bank  blocked her 
access to online banking . She would like it reinstated.
.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:
There is no dispute that Tesco Bank  took a business decision to close Mrs Hs 
account due to inactivity. Following its terms and conditions it wrote and advised Mrs 
H of this, telling her that  to keep the account open she had to use it by 29 October 
2021 which she didnt do. Mrs H says she didnt get the closure letter I dont know 
why that was as I have seen evidence it was sent. 
Tesco Bank has explained that when it closed the account on 12 November 2021 it 
withdrew , as part of its closure process, online access to the account which doesnt 
seem unreasonable.
Its unfortunate that , before the account closed, Mrs H applied for a 0% balance 
transfer offer which Tesco accepted even though this was after the 29 October 2021 
deadline  for using the account to avoid closure.  Whilst I appreciate  Tesco bank 
honoured the  balance transfer it  wouldnt  allow Mrs H  to make any more 
transactions or have online access to the account.  I appreciate there are other ways 
for Mrs H to access her account but given its the only redress Mrs H  asked for in her 
complaint I think such access was important to her. And it was probably inconvenient 
to her to lose it.
I understand Mrs H , for other reasons, has now closed her Tesco Bank account. So 
online access to it is no longer an issue.
Our investigator didnt feel Tesco banks actions were fair and recommended Tesco 
refunded the £186.43 fee Mrs H paid to set up the balance transfer. Even though Mrs 
H didnt ask for any financial redress I think this is fair. Whilst I appreciate Tesco 
Bank honoured the balance transfer which it didnt have to do , it seems unfair to me 
to allow the account to remain but to restrict access to it.  I think that must have 
caused some inconvenience to Mrs H.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Tesco Personal Finance plc trading as Tesco Bank  should refund 
the £186.43 balance transfer feet that Mrs H paid .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman