DRN-2275562
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance, was misrepresented to 
him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T electronically signed a conditional sale agreement in September 2019 for a 
used car to be supplied to him  he says that he saw the car advertised on a third 
partys web-site and hes now been able to provide a copy of that advert;
he says that he made an online check about the car a few days after it had been 
supplied to him and the check showed that the car was category S and had suffered 
structural damage  hes provided a copy of the results of the check;
he complained to the dealer and then to Close Brothers and said that the car had 
been misrepresented to him as there was no reference in the advert to it being 
category S and that he wouldnt have entered into the agreement if hed known that 
the car had suffered structural damage;
Close Brothers contacted the dealer which said that the car had been advertised on 
all sites as a category S insurance write-off and that all sites pulled the same 
information from the dealer's main site to ensure the same information was available 
to all customers  it also contacted the advertiser which confirmed that it wouldve 
pull the information directly from the dealers site;
the advert for the car that Mr T has provided says that the car is HPI clear and 
doesnt refer to the car as being category S or an insurance write-off  and hes 
consistently said that he relied on that advert;
I consider it to be more likely than not that Mr T relied on that advert and that the 
advert incorrectly said that the car was HPI clear when it was a category S 
insurance write-off  so I consider that the car was misrepresented to Mr T, that the 
advert induced him into entering into the conditional sale agreement and that he 
wouldnt have done so if hed known that the car wasnt HPI clear; and 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Close Brothers 
to allow Mr T to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that Close Brothers should end the conditional sale agreement and arrange for the car 
to be collected from Mr T  both at no cost to him. I find that it should also remove any 
adverse information about the agreement that its recorded on Mr Ts credit file.
The agreement shows that Mr T made an advance payment in cash of £495 for the car. I 
find that it would be fair and reasonable for Close Brothers to refund that payment to him, 
with interest.
Mr T says that the car hasnt been used since he discovered that it had suffered structural 
damage  which was only a few days after it was supplied to him. I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Close Brothers to refund to him all of the monthly payments that hes 
made under the agreement, with interest.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint and I order Close Brothers Limited, trading as 
Close Brothers Motor Finance, to:
1. End the conditional sale agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr T  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr T the advance payment of £495 that he made for the car.
3. Refund to Mr T all of the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Ensure that no adverse information about the agreement is recorded on Mr Ts 
credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Close Brothers to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 4 above. Close Brothers must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman