DRN-1977836
The complaint
Mrs P complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI)s handling of her breakdown claim and 
its decision to decline it. 
Mrs Ps complaint has been brought to us by her representative, but for ease, Ill refer to 
Mrs P throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mrs P took out breakdown cover with UKI in December 2019. On 18 December 2019 she 
claimed on the policy because her vehicle had become stuck on a grass verge on three 
wheels following an attempted three-point turn. UKI said she wasnt covered as she had had 
an accident, not broken down. 
Mrs P was able to get help through her motor insurance provider  who organised the 
recovery of her vehicle, for which she had to pay in excess of £180. 
Mrs P complained to UKI. She was unhappy with the way shed been treated when she 
telephoned them about the incident, and thought she was covered under the policy. Mrs P 
made specific reference to the policy terms which she said covered her for rescue from 
snow, ditches and mud. Mrs P wanted UKI to understand how upset and vulnerable shed 
felt when the incident happened, and that she had three young children in the vehicle. She 
also wanted UKI to refund her the costs she paid to have the vehicle recovered. 
UKI didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint so she referred the matter to our service. Mrs P 
maintained she was covered under the policy, and that her accent and ability to relay what 
happened when she telephoned UKI had contributed to how she was treated. Mrs P also 
said the marketing material UKI produced indicated she was covered. She wanted UKI to 
accept it was wrong and provide a suitable remedy to put things right. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Ps complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought UKI was right 
to decline her claim in line with the terms and conditions of her policy. He didnt think Mrs Ps 
vehicle had broken down, rather shed had an accident. Nor did he think her vehicle was 
stuck in the grass. Saying the policy term was intended for situations where the vehicle lost 
traction with the surface rendering it stuck. Our investigator was also satisfied from listening 
to the telephone call Mrs P had with UKI when the incident happened that she had support 
from another passenger. He thought the advisor she spoke to couldve been more helpful  
but didnt think theyd provided incorrect information. 
Mrs P didnt agree and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She reiterated that the policy 
did cover being stuck in mud, snow and water  and so she couldnt accept how being stuck 
on a grass verge differed from those scenarios. Nor did she accept our investigators point 
about the vehicle needing to have lost traction to meet the definition of stuck. And she felt 
UKI was using the accident clause as a means of not accepting her claim. Mrs P also 
argued that because one of her wheels had lost contact with the ground, it had stopped 
working which meant it was covered by the policy. 
Mrs P again referred to marketing material from UKI which gave the impression the incident 
that happened to her would be covered. She also pointed out that there were no other adults 
in the car with her at the time, only three young children, and shed felt very vulnerable and 
scared. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it, and for similar reasons to our investigator. In 
bringing this complaint Mrs Ps made several points, and I've considered very carefully 
everything shes said. Ive also looked at the relevant terms and conditions, listened to the 
telephone call Mrs P made to UKI when the incident happened, and looked at the pictures 
shes provided of her vehicle. 
Ive also noted Mrs Ps points around what she considers to be misleading marketing 
material that gives the impression situations like hers are covered in the breakdown cover. 
But I dont consider this to be of relevance to Mrs Ps specific complaint about her claim 
being declined. Nor has she said she relied on this marketing material when deciding to take 
the cover out. 
My decision will focus on what I see as being the key outstanding issues following our 
investigators assessment of Mrs Ps complaint. And Ill decide whether UKI dealt with Mrs P 
in a fair and reasonable way, and in line with the terms and conditions of her breakdown 
cover, when handling the claim.
The breakdown cover Mrs P had itemised what benefits were available to her and in what 
circumstances. Like all insurance policies, Mrs Ps policy also had some limitations. Mrs P 
was covered for breakdown. The relevant term is as follows:
Breakdown
A situation happening in the UK, during the time of cover, when you cant drive your 
vehicle because of mechanical or electoral failure, fire, theft or attempted theft; or malicious 
damage. 
The definition of breakdown also includes flat tyres; running out of fuel, a flat battery; or 
losing or breaking your vehicle keys. 
You can also call us out if your vehicle becomes stuck in water, snow, sand or mud, or if 
something in your vehicle stops working that makes it illegal of dangerous to drive there 
and then. For example, if your windscreen wipers stop working when its raining, or your 
headlamps dont work and its dark. 
The other relevant term here is:
If your cars in an accident that would be covered by a motor insurance policy we 
may be able to repair or recover it. 
Youll need to pay for the cost, but you might be able to claim it back from your insurance 
provider. 
Im satisfied with UKIs assessment, based on the information Mrs P provided during the 
telephone call, that her car didnt break down in line with the above term. Whilst she couldnt drive it due to it being stuck on the grass verge  this wasnt due to a breakdown. The 
situation as described by Mrs P, and the accompanying pictures, suggests to me that she 
had an accident as a result of driver error. And so, I dont think UKIs assessment here was 
unreasonable. 
Mrs Ps main point is around whether she shouldve still been covered given her car was 
stuck on the grass verge. I can understand the point she is making and accept there is some 
ambiguity in the terms and conditions here. But on balance, I believe the breakdown term 
around being stuck isnt intended for situations caused by driver error. And so, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for UKI to decline the claim on the basis that Mrs Ps car was damaged 
as a result of an accident  regardless of the position of the vehicle. Its not disputed that she 
was stuck on the grass verge  but this was because shed had an accident which rendered 
the car undrivable  not because the car had broken down.  
The above terms do refer to what happens in the event an accident occurs. But whilst its 
unclear to me in what circumstances UKI may or may not recover the vehicle  it has no 
obligation to do so. And that such situations would come at a cost to the driver and are best 
dealt with by their motor insurer. So, even if UKI had organised recovery of Mrs Ps vehicle, 
this would likely have cost similar to what she incurred by having to get her motor insurer 
involved at the time. 
Ive listened to the telephone call Mrs P had with UKI when the incident happened. She 
explained shed driven over a verge and needed to be lifted/pulled off it, and how there was 
some damage to the vehicle. She says she doesnt believe shes had an accident  but the 
advisor explains to Mrs P that if she accidently drove on to the verge and caused damage to 
the vehicle, then she has had an accident.  The advisor also tells Mrs P that she needs to 
contact her motor insurer. I dont see anything unreasonable in UKIs handling of the 
telephone call here  and it provided advice to Mrs P on what she needed to do. 
Mrs P also says UKI declined her claim because her accent and ability to relay what 
happened contributed to how she was treated. I can understand why Mrs P feels this way, 
but having listened to the telephone call, I dont think UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mrs P was clear in her explanation of what happened, and there is no suggestion the advisor 
didnt understand the situation. So, whilst I fully understand Mrs Ps strength of feeling, Ive 
no reason to believe UKI treated her any differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances. I hope that it helps Mrs P to know that someone impartial and independent 
has looked into her concerns.  
I dont in any way underestimate how vulnerable and scared Mrs P felt when the accident 
happened, particularly given she had young children with her. But I cant hold UKI 
responsible for the accident or the situation Mrs P found herself in. It was only responsible 
for providing the breakdown services which she was covered for under the policy terms and 
conditions. So, having taken everything into account, I cant say UKI did anything wrong and 
wont be asking it to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman