DRN-3243488
The complaint
Mr D says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH) lent to him irresponsibly. He 
says that he was offered large loans that he couldnt really afford. And he often had more 
than one loan running at the same time. The cost of the loans meant he had to borrow again. 
He thinks that LaH shouldnt have lent to him. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about 47 home collected loans LaH provided to Mr D between August 2005 
and October 2014. Some of the information I have been provided about some of the lending 
is in the table below (Ive not included some of the loans to save space). 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 04/08/2005 £600 70 18/01/2007
2 17/08/2006 £500 32 15/02/2007
3 28/09/2006 £200 32 12/04/2007
4 09/11/2006 £625 41 07/06/2007
5 18/01/2007 £625 41 12/07/2007
6 15/03/2007 £750 41 02/08/2007
7 02/08/2007 £750 50 10/07/2008
8 02/08/2007 £750 50 10/07/2008
9 02/08/2007 £2,000 70 07/08/2008
10 13/09/2007 £375 41 19/06/2008
loans 11 to 42 not shown
43 26/12/2013 £750 52 04/09/2014
44 06/03/2014 £625 41 09/10/2014
45 01/05/2014 £500 41 written off
46 04/09/2014 £750 52 written off
47 09/10/2014 £625 41 written off
LaH has said that this Service shouldnt consider any of the loans as Mr D complained more 
than six years after they were approved. So, it doesnt think they are within the jurisdiction of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator agreed that loans 1 and 6 werent within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service as they were sold before this service is able to consider complaints 
about this product type.  
But he thought Mr D had complained in time about loans 7 to 47 This is because whilst he 
made his complaint more than six years from when he started the loans there was no 
evidence to suggest he complained later than three years before he was aware, or ought to 
have been aware, he could complain.  
Our adjudicator then looked at the merits of the complaint and went on to partially uphold it. 
He said that by loan 7 the lending pattern itself looked to have become harmful, and so LaH 
shouldve stopped lending at this point. 
LaH disagreed with the adjudicators opinion about the jurisdiction of the complaint. It said 
that, essentially, Mr D was in arrears with his lending as early as 2009 and this continued 
going forward, notably in 2014 where after, what LaH said were long periods of non 
payment, his outstanding loans were written off. So, he would have been aware that the 
loans were causing him problems more than three years before he made his complaint. And 
he should have been aware that he could complain about them much earlier than he did. It 
says this this approach would be consistent with other answers that LaH, and its parent 
company, have received from the Financial Ombudsman Service recently. 
Mr D didnt disagree with what the adjudicator said. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
Why I cant look into loans 1 to 6 and why I can look into loans 7 to 47
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Mr D and LaH to 
decide whether we are able to look at all loans being complained about. Having done so, I 
have reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator  that I have the power to consider 
loans 7 to 47. Ill explain why. 
Loans 1 and 6 were started before this product was regulated in April 2007. I can only look 
at regulated loans, and so I cant consider these. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant (in this case, Mr D) knew, or should really have known they had 
reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online 
in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear loans 7 to 47 were complained about more than six years after they were taken. 
However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Mr D was aware or ought to have been 
aware more than three years before he raised this complaint, that he had reason to 
complain. LaH has said that when Mr D experienced repayment problems this shouldve 
caused him to realise he had reason to complain. But I dont think this is enough in this 
particular case to demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems would no doubt have led Mr D to 
realise there was a problem (in terms of the financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would 
have (or ought to have), in itself, made them aware that these problems were caused by LaH 
doing something wrong when it agreed the loans.
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Mr D was or should have been aware 
earlier of cause to complain more than three years before they complained. I dont think I 
need to clarify this with Mr D
So, like our adjudicator, I think loans 7 to 47 were raised within the time limits I need to apply 
and that I do have the power to consider them. Ill now go on and consider whether or not I 
think all the loans complained about were lent responsibly.   
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LaH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
As Ive said above I cant look at loans 1 to 6. So, I wont be making a decision about this 
lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr D had with LaH. So, they are 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 7 to 47 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LaHs lending 
history with Mr D, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which LaH should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so LaH should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
7. I say this because:Mr D had taken out seven loans over a two year period. This is a long time to be 
using high cost credit. 
Mr Ds first loan was for £600 and loan 7 was for £750. So, this was the latest in a 
long line of loans for relatively high amounts. 
And what is particularly concerning here was that Mr D borrowed a further two loans 
on the same day making the total he borrowed to be £3,500. This was a very large 
amount and a very significant increase in what had gone before. I dont think it 
reasonable to say these were unrelated agreements.  
Right from the start Mr D was provided with a new loan within a very short time of 
settling a previous one. He usually had more than one loan running at the same time.
So, because of the above factors, LaH ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Mr D was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loans 
was leaving in his finances and that his indebtedness was unsustainable
It also shouldve realised Mr D was also not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr D wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed LaH. Loan 47 was taken 
out over nine years after Mr Ds first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr D had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to LaH over an extended period.
I think that Mr D lost out because LaH continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 onwards 
because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
The number of loans and the length of time over which Mr D borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 7 to 47 and LaH should put things right.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr D from loan 7, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr D may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr D in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Mr D loans 4 to 47.
A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, fees 
and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH may  if LaH choose to  use the total of A plus B to repay any principal which 
LaH has written-off.
D) LaH should pay any remaining refund to Mr D. If there is no refund left and still a balance 
outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for LaH to pursue this 
further.
E) The overall pattern of Mr Ds borrowing for loans 7 to 47 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr Ds credit file if they 
still appear on it. If LaH has sold any of the loans LaH should ask the debt purchaser to do 
the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs Requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted, if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ds complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman