DRN-2535030
The complaint
Ms F says she was mis-sold a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) for a car by 
Inchcape Retail Limited.
What happened
In March 2016, Ms F was invited to look at upgrading her current car. She attended a 
dealership and agreed to take out a new financial agreement that was arranged by 
Inchcape for the new car. The agreement was a four-year PCP. At the end of the 
agreement Ms F could either return the car, take out a new PCP for another car or 
purchase the car by paying off the final payment of £9,250.
Ms F says that she wasnt aware she had taken out a PCP until she got home and looked 
at the paperwork. She says she rang the dealership to complain and told it she had 
wanted to take out a hire purchase agreement which paid off the whole cost of the car 
and the PCP didnt suit her needs. Ms F says the dealership told her this was the best 
deal it could offer her and that, with her past history of taking out credit agreements for 
cars, it didnt think there would be any issues when the agreement ended. Ms F says the 
dealership sent her a hamper and flowers.
Unfortunately, during the life of the agreement, Ms Fs financial circumstances changed, 
and she had some negative markers recorded in her credit file. Ms F says that the car 
payments remained affordable for her but, as the PCP was coming to an end, she 
became concerned she wouldnt be able to refinance the car. Ms F says having access to 
a car was very important due to her personal situation. Ms F says that in the end she had 
to take out finance with a different credit provider to finance the outstanding balance on 
the car when the PCP ended. She says this agreement had a higher interest rate and had 
higher monthly repayments. Ms F complained to the credit provider for the PCP, and it 
told her that her complaint should be taken up with Inchcape as it had arranged the 
finance agreement in question. Ms F made a complaint to this service.
Inchcape didnt provide its business file when requested to do so by our investigators 
enquiries and so she gave a preliminary view as to Ms Fs complaint and recommended 
that it should be upheld.
Our investigator said that Ms F had considered Inchcape had acted unfairly by not 
allowing her to unwind the PCP when she had called it shortly after taking out the 
agreement and, in its place providing her with a hire purchase agreement that allowed 
her to purchase the car in full during the life of the agreement. The investigator said that, 
had it done so, Ms F wouldnt have had to re-finance the outstanding balance for the car 
with a more expensive financial agreement. She said it would be fair for Inchcape to pay 
Ms F the difference between the monthly payments she was paying under the PCP and 
the new monthly payments she is now paying under the new credit agreement.
Ms F was happy with the view of our investigator, but Inchcape disagreed. It provided its 
business file and said that Ms F had signed the documentation to show she understood 
the terms and conditions of the agreement, she had also signed the pre-contract 
information checklist to say the financial agreement had been fully explained, and she 
had been given an opportunity to ask questions about it before she had signed.
As the parties didnt agree the complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Unlike the investigator Id had the opportunity of looking at the PCP and the Pre-Contract 
Checklist, both of which were signed by Ms F.
Ms Fs complaint was that she had been given a lease agreement and not a hire purchase 
agreement for the car, but this was based on Ms F not appreciating that the PCP was 
actually a hire purchase agreement itself. The difference was that at the end of the PCP 
there was a lump sum to be paid if the consumer wished to keep the car, unlike a usual 
hire purchase agreement where the full cost of the goods was spread over a set period of 
time.
Under a PCP the consumer could choose what they would like to do when the agreement 
had ended, they could return the car and end the agreement; return the car and take out 
a new agreement using any equity, if applicable, in the car as a deposit on the next one 
or pay the outstanding balance. So, these agreements are flexible, and they are also 
often significantly cheaper as the full cost of the car isnt cleared during the life of the 
agreement.
Ms F said her needs would have been better met by a usual hire purchase agreement 
rather than a PCP. But Id also seen that the payments for the car were affordable under 
the agreement for Miss F and the dealership had also contributed £1,500 towards the cost 
of the car. This contribution may have only been applicable to new PCPs that were taken 
out.
I thought it was reasonable to take into account, when looking at Ms Fs complaint, that a 
hire purchase agreement for the car would have been considerably more expensive than 
the PCPs monthly payments, even if she had been offered an agreement for a longer 
term than the PCP. So, I didnt think it was likely that Ms F would have been offered a hire 
purchase agreement that mirrored the monthly payments she was paying under the PCP. 
I think this was also supported by the dealerships response reported by Ms F when she 
queried the PCP as she says it told her this agreement was the best deal it could do 
based on the numbers.
Looking at the paperwork, this showed Ms F had signed the PCP to confirm she was content 
with its terms and conditions. I thought the agreement set out clearly the total cost of the car 
and, that at the end, there would be an outstanding balance of £9,250 which Ms F could 
choose to pay if she wished to keep the car. Ms F had also signed the pre-contract checklist 
to say that the agreement had been explained to her before she signed it.
I appreciated Ms F said that at the time she took out the agreement shed been affected 
by a personal event and was finding it hard to concentrate. But, although I was sorry Ms F 
was having a difficult time, I didnt think it was fair for me to hold Inchcape liable for the 
decisions she had made. I thought Inchcape had explained how the PCP worked to Ms F 
and given her time to consider whether this agreement was right for her. I thought it was 
reasonable to expect Ms F to have read the agreement before she had signed it.
Ms F said she had contacted the dealership as soon as she realised the agreement might 
not be suitable. I didnt know what was said as this call wasnt recorded, but the dealership 
had said this was the best deal it could offer her on the figures. I thought this meant that it 
was more likely than not that the dealership had looked at what was affordable, and what 
options were available for Ms F. Id also seen Ms F hadnt taken this any further at the time and continued with the agreement for the next four years. I thought it would be fair to 
say she hadnt disagreed with what was said and thought the agreement was suitable at 
that time. I appreciated Ms Fs financial circumstances later changed, which meant she 
struggled to refinance the car at the end of the PCP but, at the time she took out the PCP 
and when she spoke with the dealership for further clarification, this change hadnt been 
anticipated by Ms F.
Looking at the evidence I didnt think I could reasonably say this agreement was mis-
sold to Ms F, as it was explained to her, appears to have met her needs and was 
affordable at the time she entered into it. She chose to take the PCP agreement.
Id seen Ms F chose to refinance the car when the agreement ended and that the 
payments were now higher but, as set out above, I didnt think I could fairly say Inchcape 
was responsible for this. So, for the reasons given, I wasnt intending to uphold Ms Fs 
complaint.
Inchcape agreed with my provisional view, but Ms F has asked me to reconsider. She says 
that she had tried to cancel the order for the car prior to signing the paperwork as she had 
suffered a significant personal loss but was told by the dealership this wasnt possible. 
Ms F also says she knew she wouldnt be able to refinance the outstanding amount on the 
car at the end of the agreement, when she complained to the dealership about the type of 
agreement shed been sold. Ms F says she feels the dealership took advantage of her 
vulnerability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry that Ms F has clearly been through a difficult time but, although I know this will 
be of disappointment to her, I havent changed my view and I will explain why.
Ms F has raised in response to my provisional decision that she tried to cancel the car after it 
had been ordered. However, I cant see this was something that was included in her original 
complaint, so Inchcape hasnt had an opportunity to investigate that. It wouldnt be fair for 
me to look at something that hadnt been raised with the business so Im not going to 
address that here. Ms F may wish to make a new complaint to Inchcape if she thinks she 
was unfairly declined the right to cancel.
I appreciate Ms F would have been feeling very vulnerable at the time she acquired this car, 
but I dont know what was said between Ms F and the dealership or how much knowledge it 
had of her circumstances. To find the PCP agreement had been mis-sold to Ms F I would 
need to be satisfied that the dealership had either induced Ms F to take out the agreement 
by saying something that was untrue and on which she had relied, or that it had taken 
advantage of her situation.
Ms F hasnt said that the dealership said anything that was untrue about the PCP or that it 
misled her about how the PCP worked. The dealership had said that due to her previous 
credit agreements it couldnt foresee there being issues when the agreement came to an 
end which I think is a reasonable comment to have made. Ms P had also been found 
suitable for the credit agreement by the credit provider. So, I dont think the dealership has 
said anything that induced Ms F to accept the PCP.If the PCP had been misrepresented to Ms F, then the usual redress is for the consumer to 
be put back into the position they would have been had the misrepresentation not occurred. 
That would be for Ms F to return the car and for the agreement to be cancelled. However, 
here the agreement has already ended, and Ms F has chosen to keep the car by having it 
re-financed. I cant now require Inchcape to re-organise that finance for Ms F.
I appreciate Ms F says she was always aware she wouldnt be able to refinance the car 
when the agreement came to an end. She says this was why she complained to the 
dealership once she realised the agreement was a PCP, rather than a HP agreement that 
covered the full cost of the car. However, I have also seen she had a budget for a car 
payments which the PCP met and that a car was essential for her. As a hire purchase 
agreement would have had substantially higher payments, which I think would have been 
unlikely to be affordable for Ms F I cant say the PCP didnt meet her needs as she wouldnt 
have been able to take the car otherwise.
I accept its possible that Ms F could have chosen to keep her original car and not enter into 
the agreement at all due to her concerns about taking out a PCP. But I think its fair to 
consider that she would have been using an older car and expenses from maintenance and 
repair would be likely to arise. I dont think I can say her financial position would be 
substantially different if she hadnt taken out this PCP. 
When looking at the paperwork that Inchcape has provided, I still think its more likely than 
not that the finance agreement was discussed and explained to Ms F. I also think that the 
dealership was looking at Ms Fs budget and how to make the car affordable. As set out 
above, I think a HP agreement for the full cost car would have been significantly more 
expensive than the PCP payments, and Ms F has said the monthly payments under the PCP 
were suitable for her budget. 
I dont think I can reasonably say that Inchcape have taken advantage of Ms Fs 
vulnerability. The payments were affordable. and she has been able to make full use of the 
car. The PCP also came with a number of options when it ended so there was flexibility for 
Ms F. While I accept she had concerns about how to refinance, I still think its likely that, 
when Ms F discussed the agreement again with the dealership after shed taken the car, she 
was content that the PCP would work for her. Ms F says the dealership said it would take 
care of her and sent her a hamper and some flowers. But Ms F hasnt said that the 
dealership made any promises regarding the refinancing of the car, so I think Ms F was 
aware she would have to make a choice about what to do when the agreement ended.
Ive seen that Ms F struggled to refinance the car due to adverse information which had 
been added to her credit file during the life of the PCP. And although she did find a credit 
provider willing to loan her the money to pay for the car, her payments are now higher than 
before. But I dont think I can say that taking out the PCP has necessarily resulted in 
financial detriment for Ms F. This agreement allowed her to fund the car and gave her 
options when it ended. And, although returning the car and taking out another PCP for a new 
car may not have been available to her, Ms F would have had the option of returning the car 
to the dealership. This would have allowed her to look at other arrangements for acquiring a 
car if she had wished too.
So, although I appreciate Ms F thinks she was taken advantage of during a difficult time by 
the dealership, I dont have evidence that supports that. I still think its reasonable to say that 
the PCP agreement was explained, and she chose to take this agreement when she entered 
into it. I also dont think I have sufficient evidence to say the agreement was mis-sold. 
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Ms Fs complaint.
My final decisionAs set out above Im not upholding Ms Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 05 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman