DRN-2795077
The complaint
Mr R complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) reduced the interest rate on his 
account without giving him notice.
What happened
Mr R had a savings account with YBS. He opened the account in September 2020 with an 
initial deposit of £1. He added funds to the account on 27 November 2020 and then further 
funds in the period from 30 November 2020 to 5 December 2020. There was a significant 
balance in the account at this stage.
Mr R says he noticed on 8 January 2021 that the rate of interest being paid on his savings 
had dropped from 1% to 0.45%. He contacted YBS to ask it about this. It said it had sent him 
an email to tell him about the rate reduction. Mr R said he hadnt received any email. He 
complained to YBS.
YBS investigated his complaint. It acknowledged that it had given him incorrect information 
when it told him itd sent him an email. It said it had checked the balance in his account on 
26 November 2020. Because the balance on that date was less than £100 it hadnt sent him 
an email notification of the reduction in the interest rate. It said it wasnt required to send him 
a notice where the balance in the account was less than £100.
YBS acknowledged that it had given him incorrect information and that its service had been 
poor. It offered to pay him £100 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
itd caused. But it didnt agree to pay him the shortfall in interest.
Mr R wasnt satisfied. He complained to our service. He said YBS should pay him the 
difference in interest for the period up to 22 January 2021  which was 14 days after the 
date that hed noticed the reduced rate. He said he was entitled to have been given 14 days 
notice.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He thought YBS shouldve given Mr R notice 14 
days before it reduced his interest rate. He said that on that date the balance in Mr Rs 
account was greater than £100. He looked at the actions taken by Mr R after he became 
aware of the rate change. He thought Mr R wouldnt have acted any differently even if hed 
been sent the notice in December. So, he didnt think YBS should pay him the additional 
interest hed requested. He also thought that £100 was fair and reasonable compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
Mr R didnt agree. He said that it was entirely plausible to conclude that he wouldve acted 
differently if hed received the notice in December 2020. He also told us that his 
circumstances had changed in the period since December 2020 and those changed 
circumstances had impacted the actions he took in January. Mr R said that YBS needed to 
improve its policies and procedures to prevent this shambolic episode happening to 
someone else. 
Our investigator didnt change his view. Because Mr R didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which applied to Mr Rs account. These stated that 
where there was a material change to the interest rate which was to Mr Rs disadvantage, 
YBS would tell him at least 14 days before the change took effect. And, it would send him 
personal notice by post, email or secure message.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out in the Banking Conduct of 
Business Rules (available online) that a reduction to an interest rate should always be 
regarded as a material change except where the balance in the account is less than £100 at 
the time when the firm would provide the notice. 
The FCA Handbook also says that the customer should be given reasonable notice of a 
material change to the interest rate. And, where a notice is provided more than 14 days 
before the change takes effect, the business should provide a reminder to the customer 
within the period beginning 14 days before the change is due to take place and the date it 
does take place. The business can decide the medium it wants to use to send the reminder.
The purpose of the FCA rules is to help customers make decisions on an informed basis.
YBS changed the rate of interest on 18 December 2020. It says it issued notices to its 
customers on 3 and 4 December. So, it gave customers the minimum period of notice set 
out in its terms and conditions.  It says it checked its systems on 26 November 2020 to see 
which customers it had to send the notices to. Where the balance in any account was less 
than £100 on that date it didnt send the notice.
I can understand why there might be a delay between the date that YBS checked who it 
needed to send notices to and the date that it sent the notices. But, I think it wouldve been 
fair and reasonable to expect it to have checked that information again at the time when it 
issued the notice. If it had done that it wouldve noticed that the balance in Mr Rs account 
had increased substantially and was more than £100 on 3 and 4 December - which was the 
date it provided the notices to its customers. So, I agree with our investigator that it wouldve 
been fair and reasonable in these circumstances to have sent Mr R a personal notice. YBS 
didnt do that.
I now need to consider how YBSs failure to send Mr R a notice impacted on the decisions 
he made and whether he suffered any loss as a result. 
He found out about the rate reduction on 8 January 2021. He didnt take any immediate 
action to move his savings to another account. And although he did withdraw a substantial 
part of the balance on 4 March 2021  he still retained significant sums (about 40% of the 
balance) in the account. Our investigator said this showed that he wouldnt have done 
anything different, even if hed been given notice about the rate change in December. 
Mr R disagreed. He said if hed been given the notice on 3 December he wouldve acted 
differently. He says its not appropriate to look at the actions he took in January when he did 
discover the rate reduction since his circumstances had changed at that time. He says it is 
entirely plausible to conclude that he wouldve acted differently had he been given the notice 
on 3 December.Ive thought about what Mr R has said here, but Im not persuaded, on balance, that he 
wouldve withdrawn the funds in the account in December 2020 and placed them elsewhere. 
Ill explain why.
Mr R started to pay substantial funds into the account in the period between 27 November 
2020 and 5 December 2020. He says that at that time he checked the interest rate and he 
was happy with it. He logged into his account several times after 5 December, but he says 
he didnt check the interest rate again until 8 January 2021. He hasnt said what caused him 
to check the interest rate at that time. 
Mr R says if hed known about the reduction in the interest rate, he wouldve transferred the 
money to another account. And, he says he wouldve done this even if the rate elsewhere 
had only been slightly higher than that offered by YBS. But, thats not how he reacted when 
he did find out about the reduction in the interest rate on 8 January 2021.
Mr R says he didnt take action in January 2021 because two thirds of the money in the 
account was going to be paid out imminently for a project he was involved in. Hed also 
assumed YBS would pay him the higher rate of interest until 14 days after hed found out 
about the reduced interest rate. So, he thought hed leave the money in the account until 22 
January 2021. By that stage he says there was only a very short period of time before he 
intended to withdraw two thirds of the money. So, thats why he didnt transfer it to another 
account.
I can see that Mr R appears to have withdrawn the funds hes referred to on 4 March 2021- 
almost two months after he found out about the interest rate reduction. But, if the interest 
rate was important to him, as hes said, Id have expected him to have placed the funds 
elsewhere as soon as he found out about the interest rate change. If hed done that he may 
have been able to avail of a higher rate of interest for that two-month period. If he wouldve 
been prepared to transfer the balance in December to get even a slightly higher interest rate 
- I think its likely he wouldve still done that on 8 January when he found out about the 
interest rate change. 
It is also the case that even after the withdrawal on 4 March there was still a significant 
balance left in the account. Hes told us that he was aware in January that he needed to use 
about two thirds of the money in the account imminently. But, Mr R didnt try to transfer the 
residual balance to a different account to get a higher rate of interest on it. He didnt do that 
in January 2021 after he found out about the interest rate change, or subsequently after he 
made the withdrawal, referred to above, in March 2021.  
Ive also considered what hes told us about his assumption that YBS would pay him 1% 
interest up to 22 January 2021 and how that impacted his decision not to move the funds. 
But, theres no evidence YBS indicated to him at any time after he raised the matter, that it 
was willing to pay him 1% interest until 22 January. And theres no evidence to show he 
made enquiries at that time to see if he could get a better rate elsewhere. 
Having considered everything here, Im not persuaded, on balance, that Mr R wouldve 
made different decisions, even if YBS had sent him the notice in December. So, I dont think 
hes suffered any loss as a result of what happened. And, although I know it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr R, in these circumstances, I dont think its fair or reasonable to require 
YBS to pay him the difference in interest for the period after 18 December 2020. 
YBS has acknowledged that Mr R was told, incorrectly, that hed been sent an email about 
the rate reduction. It accepted that its overall level of service had fallen short of what it 
shouldve provided. It paid Mr R £100 for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. I think thats fair and reasonable. I dont require YBS to have to do anything more to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Yorkshire Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman