DRN-3516975
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc rejected his claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr M booked a room at a hotel and paid using his Lloyds credit card.
Mr M stayed at the hotel from 24 November 2001 to 9 December 2001. On his return, he 
raised a chargeback dispute with Lloyds. He said hed booked the hotel because it was 
advertised as being soundproof, but on arrival he found this not to be the case. 
Lloyds declined the chargeback claim. It said Mr M had stayed at the hotel for the duration of 
his stay.
Mr Ms claim was then reviewed under section 75. The claim was rejected. Lloyds said there 
was no evidence in the terms and conditions or on the hotels website that the hotel had 
advertised its rooms as being soundproof, so there wasnt anything to show that there had 
been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response to his claim. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to 
conclude that a breach of contract or a misrepresentation had occurred.
Mr M didnt agree. He said hed provided evidence to show that the hotel was advertised as 
being soundproof. He said that during his stay he hadnt been able to go anywhere due to 
lack of sleep caused by surrounding noise.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr M didnt have the holiday experience he was hoping for and I 
understand his disappointment. However, that said, I dont think Lloyds rejected the section 
75 claim unfairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant law says that goods have to be of satisfactory quality and as described. If this 
isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred. A misrepresentation is 
an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into an agreement.
For a claim under section 75 to be successful, there has to be either a breach of contract or 
a misrepresentation by the supplier.
Mr M has said that he looked at a third party online booking platform before choosing the 
hotel, and that it stated on there that the rooms were soundproof. Mr M has provided a copy 
of the webpage. Ive looked at this, however, it isnt clear from the webpage when the 
statement about soundproofing was made, and whether the statement was made by a 
person who was authorised to make statements on behalf of the hotel. The statement about 
soundproofing hasnt been made by the hotel directly.
Ive looked at the hotels website. I cant see anything there which suggests that the rooms 
are advertised as being soundproof. 
Even if I accepted that the rooms were advertised as being soundproof, I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that they werent soundproof. Mr M has said that he could hear the 
occupants of the room next to him, but theres no supporting evidence such as an audio 
recording or a statement from the hotel itself. 
Further, Im not persuaded that soundproof rooms were the only or main reason for Mr M 
booking the hotel. I think its likely that there were other features of the hotel which factored 
in Mr Ms decision to choose it. 
Based on the information Ive seen, there isnt enough evidence for me to say that the hotel 
advertised its rooms as being soundproof. So, Im unable to say that theres been a breach 
of contract or a misrepresentation. In order to hold Lloyds liable under section 75, there has 
to be a clear breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
For this reason, I dont think Lloyds decision to reject the section 75 claim was unfair or 
unreasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman