DRN-2412976
The complaint
Ms T has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt allow access to online banking 
for three months after she opened her account.
What happened
Ms T opened her account with HSBC in July 2019. She wanted to register for online 
banking. Due to systems problems, this wasnt actioned until October 2020. As a result, she 
had no access to her money during this time. She made several calls and wrote emails to 
HSBC to try to sort this out. In December 2019, she transferred her account to another bank. 
The money in her savings account was also transferred.
Ms T complained to HSBC in August 2019. She was told the problem would be fixed in ten 
days time. She made several calls and wrote emails to HSBC to try to sort this out. HSBC 
didnt respond or return her calls. She was told by text in October 2019 that the problem was 
resolved. She didnt receive HSBCs reply dated 8 October 2019 to her complaint as it was 
sent to the wrong email address. 
HSBCs response to the online banking problem was sent on 21 October 2019, but this was 
also sent to the wrong email address. She received a letter intended for another customer in 
connection with the systems problems. So, Ms T transferred her current account to another 
bank in December 2019 but couldnt find out what balances had been transferred. She was 
concerned that her savings account balances had also been transferred without her asking 
for it. 
In its letter of 8 October 2019 (not received by Ms T as it was sent to the wrong email 
address), HSBC admitted that its service had been poor and paid Ms T compensation of 
£250. HSBC also apologised on 5 November 2019 for its error in sending her a letter 
intended for another customer and paid £50 compensation. Ms T was unhappy with the lack 
of response from HSBC and contacted this service in December 2019.
Our investigator looked at the case and replied to Ms T on 29 September 2019. He said that 
the service from HSBC had been poor. Ms T had not received HSBCs emails as theyd 
been sent to the wrong email address, so she was unaware of HSBCs response to her 
complaint, or the compensation paid. HSBC had not communicated with her regarding the 
systems problems and subsequent fixes. He said that HSBC was entitled to close Ms Ts 
regular saver account when she transferred her current account to another bank as the 
savings account was linked. He thought that a payment of compensation of £300 rather than 
£250 was more reasonable for HSBCs poor online service, and HSBC had agreed to this.
Ms T didnt accept the investigators view and asked that her complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Online banking is so important for most people and if it is not available, as in this case, it can 
cause serious problems for customers. What has happened here is a whole series of failings 
by HSBC, all compounding each another. The failure to register Ms T for online banking 
wasnt resolved for three months, much longer than she had been advised. HSBC didnt 
keep Ms T advised of its progress in resolving this problem. It didnt reply to her emails or 
resolve her issues on calls. During this time, she had limited access to her money and 
information, and this must have been especially worrying for Ms T as shed just opened her 
HSBC account. 
When it did deal with her complaint after three months, Ms T didnt receive the letter as it 
was sent to the wrong email address. So, she was not aware of the compensation paid or 
HSBCs apology. If Ms T had got this letter, she may have felt a little better. She was also 
sent someone elses correspondence about the online banking problems affecting 
customers  which would only have added to her worries and frustration here.
Turning to the transfer of Ms Ts savings balances to her new bank in December 2019, the 
savings account was linked to the current account and in this case, there was nothing wrong 
with HSBC transferring the savings balances to the current account and then transferring all 
the money to the new bank. But again, it would have been only reasonable for HSBC to 
have advised Ms T of what had happened.
HSBCs service faults were significant but fortunately didnt lead to any financial loss that I 
need to tell it to put right. But they did lead to a lot of inconvenience and frustration for Ms T. 
All that said, on balance, I think that the amount of compensation of £350 is fair and 
reasonable in this case. This is in line with payments that we would expect to see in cases 
like this. 
My final decision
HSBC has already made an offer to pay £350 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay £350. £300 has already been paid, 
so a further £50 should be paid to Ms T.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman