DRN-2503586
The complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr H bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a loan. He applied for the loan
and PPI policy in-branch.
Because things happened many years ago, Lloyds records are no longer detailed about the
loan and PPI costs. The policys one-off upfront premium is assumed to be around £345.
This was paid in advance by being added to the loan (a single premium) where it attracted
interest over the term of the loan. The loan was repayable over a 30-month term and the
policy term matched that of the loan. The monthly loan repayment was £87.31 including the
PPI  the interest on the PPI was around £76 over the term.
The policy provided cover for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Hs monthly loan repayment for up to 12
months in the event of unemployment and the remaining term in the event of a successful
disability claim.
At the time, Mr H was employed as a factory worker. He has told us he was entitled to 12
months full sick pay and 12 months redundancy pay. He has said he didnt have any other
means of repaying his loan should he be unable to work. Mr H has said he was in good
health at the time of sale.
Mr H also told us in his PPI questionnaire that he was aged 66 at the time of the sale and
that he was a new starter with his employer, so wouldnt have been eligible for the cover. Its
not clear why Mr H and/or his representative included this here. But it is incorrect  Mr H was
aged around 30 at the time of sale and had been with his employer for around 12 years at
the time of sale
.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 1998.
Mr Hs representative made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In
summary, Mr Hs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on
handling PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr H wouldnt
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Hs representatives
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Lloyds should have
told Mr H about the poor value;
The cancellation terms were unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr H and the impact they
would have had on his/her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of
the cover meant this was untrue.
I issued my provisional decision of November 2020 in which I said I was minded not to 
uphold the complaint and I invited both parties to let me have anything they wanted me to 
consider in response.
Mr Hs representative replied and said Id not considered Mr Hs sick pay entitlement, which 
it said it had previously provided evidence of.
Lloyds didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
This sale took place in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC)
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself concluded in 1998. That means the unfair relationship provisions
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent
applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of thiscomplaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code.
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of
intermediaries like Lloyds at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these
other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and reasonable in
the circumstances of Mr Hs case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Banking
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I
note that under the Banking Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was
required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in
all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable
rule of law or relevant judicial authority.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were
guidance when considering Mr Hs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this
complaint, are:
- If Lloyds gave advice, whether it advised Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs
and circumstances.
- Whether Lloyds gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable
him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way 
the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, Imust then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or
damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and
Lloyds, both before and in response to my provisional decision, Ive decided not to uphold Mr 
Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.
Did Mr H know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mr Hs loan agreement  perhaps not surprising given the
loan ended more than 20 years ago. Businesses dont keep records indefinitely. But it has
provided an example copy, which it says represents what Mr H wouldve seen and been
asked to sign
.
Looking at this I can see the PPI premium was set out separately from the main loan amount
in a column titled Optional Loan Repayment Protection. The form also asked the applicant
to tick one of two boxes Yes or No to indicate whether PPI was required or not. Again it
was described here as Optional.
While I dont know how PPI was introduced to Mr H during the meeting, taking everything
into account  and in the absence of evidence to persuade me that something different
happened in Mr Hs case  I think its more likely that Mr H knew the policy was optional and
he agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
Did Lloyds provide advice?
Lloyds says that advice was likely provided during this sale because it was carried out in
branch. Because Ive not seen anything to contradict this  Im also mindful that it doesnt
disadvantage Mr H in any way  Im persuaded more likely than not that it provided advice.
This means Lloyds had to advise Mr H with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
The advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy was a suitable
recommendation for Mr H.
It seems Mr H cant remember clearly what happened and there is no record of what the
adviser discussed in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a
meeting and given the passage of time.
The adviser likely had some limited information about Mr Hs financial circumstances from
the loan application process, but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps
to establish whether Mr H had a need for cover or if he would have been caught by the
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his
needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr H had any
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done
to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr H given his circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable care and skill.While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done to make sure the policy was
suitable for Mr H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
Mr H met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Mr H had a need for the policy. In my provisional decision I said that I thought it was 
unlikely that Mr H was entitled to 12 months sick pay. However, Mr Hs 
representative had previously provided evidence on another complaint of Mr Hs, 
which shows his entitlement was 52 weeks as he stated (although I note it does not 
say he wouldve received full pay for the whole period.) I apologise to Mr H for this 
oversight.
But in the circumstances I still think the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for him as 
I indicated in my provisional decision. Mr H was taking on an additional and regular 
monthly financial commitment over a 30-month term  not a shorter term where his 
sick pay may have been adequate means to negate the need for cover. The policy 
wouldve paid out for the remaining term of the loan in the event of a disability claim if 
required, which was longer than Mr Hs sick pay wouldve lasted. So if Mr H was in 
the unfortunate event of being off work sick for an extended period of time, the policy 
wouldve helped him out at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain 
time. And while Mr H said he wouldve been entitled to some redundancy pay, he 
didnt have any savings he could fall back on. So I still think the policy was of benefit 
to him and it wasnt wrong in the circumstances for Lloyds to have recommended it.
The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Mr H.
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mr H. There was
nothing about Mr Hs employment or occupation which would have made it difficult
for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions that
could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for
mental health or back problems.
Although a pro-rata refund would not have been paid if Mr H cancelled the policy
early and theres no evidence to indicate the adviser considered this in giving their 
advice, the loan term was not significant and there is nothing to suggest (at the time)
that Mr H had plans to repay the loan early. The purpose of the loan was not debt
consolidation or anything else which might suggest a need to repay the loan early, or
that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing advice, Lloyds gave Mr H sufficient information
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Lloyds was
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow that advice
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr H was given a broad description of what the
policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr H was
unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment.) 
I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr H would have taken out the 
policy without any sense of what the policy was. And I think Mr H knew that he was 
borrowing the single premium amount of £345 and what the monthly additional cost was (this 
information was, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mr H signed.)But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient
information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information about the cost  for
example the loan agreement does not show the total cost of the policy over the term of the
loan including what the additional interest was - or about the exclusions or limitations before
Mr H agreed to take out the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties representations about what happened, while Im
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr H Im not persuaded Lloyds did
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair
and reasonable to Mr H. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave him all the information he needed
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set
out above, I am persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr Hs representative has raised a number
of general points in regard to the requirements on a business when providing information in
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Hs. Ive considered
these carefully and summarised them as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Hs representative considers to be poor
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the
insurer.
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just
told Mr H about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and
explained the significance of them to him.
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the
way Mr H has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to
conclude that Lloyds ought to have done either.
What effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr H? To what extent did Mr H suffer
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr H.
So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr H
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr H
would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the
policy it recommended was suitable for Mr H, I have found that the policy was ultimately
suitable for him.In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Mr H has suffered loss or
damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Lloyds had explained things properly,
Mr H would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any
event.
Mr H says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case
given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of both
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a
number of factors before deciding whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should
the risks come to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr H had some interest in taking out payment
protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised him that there was a suitable
product he could buy that would protect his loan payments in the event he was unable to
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what he
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about Mr Hs circumstances at the time
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr H knew he was borrowing the money to
pay for the policy  this was in my view apparent from the way the loan agreement was set
out - and that it would cost him an additional amount each month, it doesnt appear Lloyds
told him the total cost of the policy over the loan term including the interest. Having said that,
given the loan amount and term, I dont think the interest would have made the policy cost
significantly more than Mr H realised. So I dont think it likely the missing cost information
would have affected Mr Hs decision to buy the recommended policy in his circumstances.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr H would have found the cost unacceptable if he had been
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded Lloyds made clear exactly what Mr H would get back in return
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Hs expectations about
what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental condition or disease
that Mr H knew about or ought to have known about on the start date of the policy, or
anything he had seen a doctor about in the 12 months before the start date and
which recurred within the first 12 months;
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr H
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata refund if Mr H repaid the loan early and the
policy was cancelled, so it wouldve been more expensive for Mr H to have done so; 
andThe requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be unable to
do his own job, or any other job which he could do bearing in mind his knowledge
and training.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have caused
Mr H pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude the policy wasnt as
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,
when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded some
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking out the policy.
But, the evidence about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to him should the
insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest he
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr H didnt have any pre existing
medical conditions and he was in permanent employment. Mr H also didnt likely
need, and theres no evidence to suggest at the outset that he intended to repay the loan
early. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr H would have
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence to
support that claim.
If Mr H had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his own
job, but also any other job which he could do bearing in mind his knowledge and training it
might have played into his thinking about what he would do. And I accept it may have given
him pause for thought  although given Mr Hs circumstances on balance, I still think he
would have been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely
than not Mr H would still have taken out the policy. The policy wasnt unsuitable for him, was
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting and provided benefits that
would help him manage the consequences were Mr H made redundant, or unable to work
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr H
would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Hs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3)
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration, so I take it into account along
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the
approach I have taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mr H would not have 
bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is 
evidence to rebut the presumption.
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Hs
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr H
found himself in as result of the sale was the same position he would have been in had the
breach or significant failings not occurred.
Mr H believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in if he had not
bought the policy.
That is because, while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy, I
am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would still have
taken out the PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr H compensation, as that would put him in
a better position than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should have
done.
Im also aware that Mr H thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it
described the PPI. Whilst I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Lloyds failed
to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it
provided  but because the overall information Lloyds gave Mr H, in the way it did, was
insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in
1997 when providing information about an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the remedy a court might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been
in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my 
conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint 
including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons
Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr H in a better
position than if everything had happened as it should have done.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Megan Gabriel
Ombudsman