DRN-3884181
The complaint
Mr B complains that Chubb European Group SE declined his purchase protection insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr B had purchase protection insurance though his credit card which was underwritten by 
Chubb. 
Mr B bought some trainers online to be delivered to his home. He waived the signed for 
delivery option. The courier delivered the parcel containing the trainers to the communal 
entrance of the flats where Mr B lived. On his claim form Mr B said the parcel was stolen 
between the time it was delivered and the time he went to retrieve it about three hours later. 
Mr B claimed on his policy.
Chubb declined the claim. It said the parcel had been left unsecured/unattended/outside of 
Mr Bs reach so the claim was excluded under the policy terms. 
Mr B complained to us. In summary he said:
The policy exclusions Chubb relied on to decline the claim didnt apply as he hadnt 
left the parcel unsecured or unattended, the delivery courier had.
He didnt instruct the delivery business to leave the parcel in the communal area. 
Hed asked that the package be delivered without his signature, but he didnt think 
that affected his legal position under section 29 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
Although the retailers order confirmation said it would leave the parcel outside the 
delivery address if he waived the signature requirement the parcel wasnt left outside 
the delivery address. It was left in the communal area and his flat was on a different 
floor on the opposite side of the building. He didnt give the communal area as the 
delivery address.
If the delivery driver had delivered the parcel properly there wouldnt be an issue as 
hed been at home at the time. 
He wants Chubb to pay the cost of his trainers.
Our investigator said Chubb fairly declined the claim and Mr B should contact the delivery 
business about liability for the loss if he thought the parcel had been delivered incorrectly.
Mr B disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has referred to legislation which he believes is relevant to his complaint. His complaint 
to us is about Chubb, not the delivery business. Its for the court, not this service, to decide 
whether an insurer had breached legislation. But I take into account the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards in deciding whats fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of a case.
I need to decide whether Chubb fairly and reasonably declined the claim and I think it did.  
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy provides purchase protection for items bought on Mr Bs card account, subject to 
the policy terms, and the policy sets out exclusions for cover. Chubb relied on the following 
policy terms to decide the claim: 
EXCLUSIONS
You will not be covered in respect of the following
5) Theft of or damage to items where you have failed to take sufficient care of them 
or have left them unsecured or outside your reach...
7) Not taking reasonable care of items or leaving them unattended in a public place.
The policy doesnt define unsecured, outside your reach or unattended so I think its 
reasonable for me to consider the ordinary every day meaning of those words.
Mr B says the exclusions dont apply because they refer to You and it was the delivery 
business, not him, who left the parcel unsecured or unattended.
Mr B didnt directly leave the parcel unsecured or unattended. But even if I thought that 
meant under a strict interpretation of the policy terms the exclusions didnt apply I have to 
look at whats fair and reasonable to both parties in the overall circumstances of the case.
Although Mr B didnt directly leave the parcel unsecured or unattended I think his decision to 
waive the signature option for delivery caused the parcel to be left unsecured and out of his 
reach.
The order confirmation from the retailer says:
If you have chosen to waive the signature, we will leave your purchase outside the 
delivery address. 
I understand Mr B didnt give the communal area at his flats as the delivery address. But he 
wrote to Chubb:
I cannot make a claim with the retailer or the delivery company because I waived the 
requirement for a signature on delivery. This is because I could not guarantee that 
I would be home for the delivery time and it was therefore easier to have the package 
dropped off in an access-controlled communal area in my apartment building where 
I could retrieve it upon my return.
That evidence shows when Mr B decided to waive the need for a signature on delivery he 
understood it was very likely the delivery business would leave the parcel in the communal 
area of his flats, even though he hadnt given the communal area as the delivery address. 
Mr B made that decision knowing the communal area wasnt close to his own flat, which he 
says is on a different floor on the opposite side of the building, so the parcel would be out of 
his reach. I dont think the communal area was a secure place. It was access-controlled but 
Mr B wouldnt have known, or had control over, who was accessing the area.
Im satisfied Chubb fairly and reasonably declined the claim as due to Mr Bs active decision 
to waive the need for a signature on delivery the parcel was left in the communal area of his
flats, which Mr B thought was likely to happen. Due to his decision the parcel was left 
unsecured and outside his reach and was stolen. I dont need to decide if Chubb also fairly declined the claim because the parcel was left 
unattended in a public place as Chubb only needs to be able to rely on one of the 
exclusions to decline the claim. Chubb doesnt need to pay for Mr Bs stolen trainers.
Ive considered section 29 of the Consumer Rights Act 2015, which Mr Bs referred to. 
Briefly, the section says goods from a sales contract remains at the trader's risk until the 
goods come into the physical possession of the consumer, apart from in specified 
exceptions. I dont think section 29 means Chubb couldnt fairly and reasonably decline the 
claim for the reasons Ive given above.
Its for Mr B to decide if he wants to contact the delivery business if hes unhappy about it 
delivering the parcel to the communal area of his flats. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman