DRN-3686188
The complaint
Mr C complained about the mis-sale of a policy and poor customer service by his broker Ten 
Insurance Services Ltd (Ten Insurance) regarding his commercial insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C was unhappy about the sale of a commercial insurance policy that was made to him by 
his broker Ten Insurance in 2010. He said it provided him with inferior cover to a policy he 
previously held with a different insurer. He said he was never told of the change in terms on 
his policy.
Mr C said he made a claim on the policy around 2013/14, via his broker Ten Insurance, 
when there was water ingress at his property following a storm. Mr C said he contacted Ten 
Insurance several times over the years but was told in 2020/21 that his claim was declined 
because of an endorsement added to his policy in 2011, when Mr C had some work done on 
the property.
Ten Insurance Services provided Mr C with evidence of the endorsement that was added. 
And it acknowledged the matter was not dealt with in a timely manner when it was brought to 
the attention of one of its team. It paid £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Our investigator decided that part of the complaint couldnt be looked at as the event 
happened over six years ago, and our service doesnt have jurisdiction to look at complaints 
that relate to events happening so long ago. However, she did think that the more recent 
aspect of the complaint could be looked at. She thought Ten Insurance couldve been more 
pro-active in chasing the insurer in respect to the claim. However, she didnt uphold the 
complaint as she thought the £500 compensation paid by Ten Insurance was fair for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. Mr C disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a decision on the jurisdiction of this case on 30th August 2022, I explained why I 
couldnt look into part of this complaint. 
I said in my decision the complaint has been raised against Ten Insurance who acted as Mr 
Cs broker. Ten Insurance arent responsible for the claim being declined. The sole 
responsibility for declining the claim sits with Mr Cs insurer, the party who underwrites the 
policy. Therefore, I wont be looking at the decision to decline the claim. Mr C would need to 
raise this directly with his insurer.
Mr C was sold the policy by Ten Insurance in 2010 and the endorsement was added to the 
policy in 2011 after Mr C informed his insurer of some work he was having done to his 
property. This endorsement remained on subsequent policies. There is no evidence of Mr C 
raising a complaint with Ten Insurance about his policy been mis-sold or endorsement been 
added until more than six years after the date the policy was sold. Mr C didnt raise these 
issues within the allowed six years and allow Ten Insurance to provide a response to his 
complaint, so under the rules our service is bound, its unfortunate, but Im unable to 
consider this part of the complaint.
As I said I would, Ive considered Mr Cs complaint about Ten Insurances poor customer 
service in not pro-actively, on his behalf, chasing his water ingress claim with the insurer. 
Ten Insurance has paid Mr C £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its poor customer service in dealing with the claim. So, I have considered whether I think 
this compensation is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. Unfortunately, Im going to 
disappoint Mr C. Whilst, I can see the service provided by Ten Insurance has been lacking 
and this has caused significant frustration, I think the compensation that has been paid is fair 
given the impact this has had on Mr C. Ill explain more why I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
Mr C said Ten Insurance didnt escalate his claim with his insurer when he first made it 
aware of the need to make a claim on his behalf. So, I have first considered whether these 
delays had any impact on Mr Cs insurer deciding to decline his claim. I dont think the 
delays did impact this outcome. I can see Mr C was informed by Ten Insurance that it 
approached the Insurer who applied the endorsement and they confirmed in their email of 
the 27th May 2021, that in view of the contactors exclusion condition being applied to this 
policy, it would not extend to cover any losses arising from work carried out by a contractor. 
I havent seen any evidence that the delays did impact the insurers decision, so I dont think 
Ten Insurances failings caused a financial loss for Mr C. Even if Ten Insurance had acted 
faster, I think its likely the insurer wouldve declined the claim. I did say in my jurisdiction 
decision, that if Mr C wanted to challenge the insurers decision to decline the claim, he 
would need to do this direct with the insurer.
Ive considered the distress and inconvenience that Mr C wouldve suffered because of the 
delays in Ten Insurance acting. Its not possible to know from the evidence exactly how long 
Ten Insurance failed to pro-actively chase the claim on Mr Cs behalf. There is evidence Ten 
Insurance failed to communicate effectively with Mr C and deal with his claim, as his broker 
and as the intermediary with the insurer. I can see that there were some communications 
between Mr C and Ten Insurance in 2017 and we know it wasnt until 2021 when Mr C 
received the outcome on the claim. So, its clear Mr Cs frustrations wouldve lasted at least 
four years and he wouldve been inconvenienced by the additional time he has spent 
chasing up his broker.
Four years is a long time for Ten Insurance to have been dealing with this and Ive seen 
evidence that Mr C failed to get responses to his communications and that members of the 
Ten Insurance team didnt deal with his claim proactively to manage it with the insurer. Mr C 
had to contact various members of the team to try and seek a response. I dont think this is 
reasonable. 
However, I must think what the impact of these delays were on Mr C. I can see Ten 
Insurance did advise Mr C in 2017 that it was likely his claim would be unsuccessful due to 
the time that had passed since the incident. The insurer wouldve lost the opportunity to 
validate the claim and recover any contributions from the original contractor. And the claim 
did prove unsuccessful with the insurer, due an endorsement that was added to the policy in 
2021.Therefore, whilst I think Ten Insurances poor service wouldve been extremely frustrating for 
Mr C. I think Ten Insurance did effectively manage Mr Cs expectations earlier in the 
process, So, I dont think its subsequent poor service has caused Mr C any financial loss. 
Ten Insurance has paid Mr C £500 compensation for its failings and the distress it has 
caused to Mr C. This is a significant level of compensation and like what our service would 
award in these circumstances. As I think the compensation is fair, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I think the compensation is reasonable for the poor communication and lack of 
pro-active chasing. I dont think its fair to award anything further as I cant see a specific 
financial loss has resulted due to Ten Insurances actions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Ten Insurance Services 
Ltd to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman