DRN-1704630
 
The complaint
Mr H says Gain Credit LLC - trading as Lending Stream - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Mr H between      
July 2015 and June 2017. A summary of Mr Hs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 10/07/2015 16/09/2015 6 £500.00 £212.00
2 05/08/2015 16/09/2015 6 £500.00 £401.00
3 11/09/2015 16/09/2015 6 £100.00 £436.00
4 14/01/2016 21/01/2016 6 £500.00 £212.00
Gap of around 17 months
5 22/06/2017 31/12/2017 6 £500.00 £212.00
Mr Hs complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information Lending Stream had asked   
Mr H to provide that should have prompted Lending Stream to do more checks. So, the 
adjudicator couldnt say Lending Stream was wrong to have given the loans to Mr H.  
Mr H disagreed. He said his complaints about other short-term lenders had been upheld with 
the same information. He said he believed we had looked at the complaint in isolation and 
not considered all the other borrowing he had from other lenders. As the complaint couldnt 
be resolved informally, it was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Mr H could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought we should consider the other 
borrowing he had at the same time he took out the loans with Lending Stream.
Firstly, I think it would be useful if I explain that whilst we consider Mr Hs financial situation 
at the time of his borrowing, each complaint is considered on its individual merits and its own 
particular circumstances. So, whilst he may have had other complaints upheld with similar 
circumstances, I am only considering the circumstances surrounding Mr Hs borrowing 
history with Lending Stream. 
Lending Stream has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of 
the borrowing. It has said it asked Mr H about his employment status and he confirmed he 
was employed and had a monthly income of around £2,500. Lending Stream also checked 
Mr Hs normal monthly living costs. Mr H declared these to be between £1,030 and £1,540 a 
month. Lending Stream says it also searched Mr Hs credit file and it has provided the 
results of its search. There werent any recent adverse entries like defaults or county court 
judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loans were taken out. 
The results do show there were some defaults. All of these were many years before his 
borrowing with Lending Stream but with one exception. One default was added to Mr Hs 
credit report six months before he took out his fifth loan, but I dont think this would have 
given Lending Stream cause for concern. Mr H has also provided a copy of some of his bank 
statements and these show he was borrowing from one other short-term lender. But the 
loans from this other lender were applied for after Mr H had taken the loans with Lending 
Stream so these wouldnt yet have shown up on any checks Lending Stream would have 
done before it lent to him. So, I dont think Lending Stream ought to have increased its 
checks before it lent to Mr H again or not lent to him on this basis. 
Mr H borrowed loans 1 to 4 within six months, there was then a 17-month gap between Mr H 
repaying loan 4 and taking out loan 5. I think it would be reasonable for Lending Stream to 
view this gap as an indication that Mr Hs finances had stabilised after whatever had led to 
him to need to borrow previously. So, he was very early on in his lending relationship with 
Lending Stream. Even though he had to make monthly repayments, the highest repayment 
would have appeared affordable based on the information he declared to Lending Stream. 
And there wasnt anything in the information Mr H provided at the time which would have 
given Lending Stream cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Lending Stream to 
have relied on what Mr H gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Lending Stream to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Lending Stream did before 
lending the loans went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake 
any more in-depth checks. The information Mr H declared to Lending Stream at the time of the loans may not have 
been an accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think Lending Stream was 
entitled to rely on that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Lending 
Stream knew about Mr H, I wouldnt have expected Lending Stream to verify the information 
Mr H gave it. This therefore means, I cant say that Lending Stream has done something 
wrong in lending Mr H these loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr H, but I hope my explanation will help 
him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman