DRN-1511709
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the way that U K Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her 
motor insurance policy. Shes unhappy that her car wasnt deemed to be a total loss, with 
the quality of repairs carried out, with the provision of a courtesy car and with the car seat 
vouchers. Mrs S is represented in this matter by her daughter, Miss D, a named driver on 
her policy. Mrs S wants her car written off and UKI to pay a settlement claim and 
compensation for her trouble and upset. 
What happened
Mrs Ss car was damaged in an accident and UKI took it to an approved garage. Mrs S was 
initially unhappy with delays in providing her with a courtesy car and with child seat 
vouchers. She was then unhappy that the car was repaired without her consent when she 
thought there was structural damage and she wanted the car written off. She was unhappy 
with the quality of repairs and that the garage caused further damage. She also said that a 
toolkit had been stolen from the cars boot.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Mrs Ss 
initial concerns with UKIs level of service, the courtesy car and the car seats had been 
resolved. She thought Mrs S had accepted UKIs offer of £100 compensation for this. She 
didnt think that UKI had told Mrs S that her car would be definitely declared a total loss. She 
thought UKI was entitled to repair the car by the policys terms and conditions. She thought 
there wasnt evidence that the garage had caused further damage to the car or stolen the 
toolkit.
Miss D replied that the car had failed its MOT. She thought she should have been asked for 
her consent for the car to be repaired. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss first complaint was about the level of service she received from UKI. She said it 
didnt call her back as promised. She was provided with one car seat voucher when she 
needed two. There were delays in providing a courtesy car. UKI agreed there had been 
service issues. It provided the extra car seat voucher and paid Mrs S £100 compensation. It 
later extended the courtesy car hire. I think that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to resolve Mrs Ss complaint as it restored her position. 
Miss D was unhappy that the car was repaired rather then deemed to be beyond economical 
repair. I can see that the initial repairs were low value. Further issues were found by the 
repairing garage and Miss D wanted the car written off as she thought there may be 
structural damage. From its notes, I can see that UKI said it may be possible that the car 
would be declared a total loss. But this wasnt promised to Miss D. 
The garage then carried our repairs to the car which included welding. Miss D was unhappy 
as she hadnt given her consent for this and she said it invalidated her lifetime warranty. UKI 
said the repairs were covered by a five-year warranty, but Miss D wanted the car written off. 
UKI, in response to Miss Ds complaint, extended the courtesy car and arranged for an 
engineer to inspect the car. He said the repair work was satisfactory and the repairs were 
standard. He said their cost was low compared to the cars pre-accident value. He said 
manufacturers parts had been used and the repairs followed industry standards. 
According to the policy terms and conditions, I think UKI has the right to decide whether to 
repair the car. The cost of the repairs was low compared to the cars value. So I dont think it 
did anything wrong in this. 
Miss D was unhappy with the repairs. Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how 
damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, 
the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine 
whether an insurance company has considered all the available evidence and whether it can 
justify its decision about repairs.
In Mrs Ss case, I can see that UKI relied on its engineers inspection of the car to decide 
that the repairs were correctly made. I cant see that Miss D provided any further expert 
evidence for it to consider. So I think it justified its decision that the initial repairs were 
correctly made. 
I think theres been some confusion over whether structural repairs were made to the car. I 
can see that new panels were welded in place, and UKIs engineer confirmed that there was 
no work done on the cars chassis. But, as he confirmed that the work was done correctly, 
then I dont think theres evidence that the car was unsafe to drive. 
Miss D delayed collecting the car. She then said it failed its MOT a few months later. She 
said there was further damage, the rear bumper was a different colour and the toolkit had 
been stolen. UKI advised Miss D to allow the garage to investigate her concerns. But she 
was unhappy with that. 
I can see that the garage checked its notes and the toolkit wasnt noted when the car was 
taken for repairs. So I dont have any evidence to say what happened to the toolkit. The 
garage had photographs of the car when it was collected by Miss D and it said these didnt 
show the new damage. So I cant see that UKI had evidence that the garage caused this 
further damage. 
UKI told us the MOT was failed due to the cars rear brake lights not working. I can see that 
these were included with the other repairs to the back of the car. UKIs engineer confirmed 
that the repairs had been carried out satisfactorily. I think UKI reasonably advised Miss D to 
allow the garage to check these faults, and the other faults shed noted. But she declined 
this offer. So I dont think theres any further evidence for UKI to consider about the lights not 
working or the other claimed damage. And so I think UKI has justified its decision not to do 
anything further. 
Miss D has told us that the car is sitting, undriveable at her mothers home. But I cant 
reasonably hold UKI responsible for this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman