DRN-2589031
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that First Complete Ltd, trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network 
(PRIMIS), shouldve made it clearer their new mortgage protection policy replaced a 
previous one and that it was the responsibility of PRIMIS to cancel the old policy. Mr and Mrs 
C also complain that the new policy was mis-sold as there was no legal requirement for it.
What happened
In 2011, Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage over 25 years. PRIMIS recommended a joint life 
first death mortgage protection term assurance policy to cover the amount and term of the 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs C re-mortgaged in 2016 and PRIMIS recommended a new joint life 
first death mortgage protection term assurance policy for the amount and term of the new 
mortgage.
In late 2019, Mr and Mrs C became aware they were paying for two mortgage protection 
policies as the first policy hadnt been cancelled. They complained to PRIMIS as they 
understood the second policy shouldve superseded the 2011 policy and that PRIMIS were 
responsible for cancelling the old policy.
PRIMIS provided a final response to the complaint and didnt uphold it as they were satisfied 
they made Mr and Mrs C aware it was their responsibility to cancel the 2011 policy. PRIMIS 
said Mr and Mrs C signed a Life Assurance Replacement Questionnaire (LARQ) at the time 
to confirm they had been told this.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with PRIMIS and brought their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things and thought PRIMIS hadnt done anything wrong 
as the LARQ Mr and Mrs C signed explained it was their responsibility to cancel the 2011 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the findings of our investigator and asked that an ombudsman 
decide the complaint. Mr and Mrs C have since complained that PRIMIS mis-sold the 2016 
policy. PRIMIS have agreed an ombudsman can consider this without them providing a final 
response on this matter.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 January 2021 explaining why I thought Mr and Mrs 
Cs complaints shouldnt be upheld. I said:
Replacement policy and cancellation of existing policy
The initial mortgage protection policy in 2011 covered the term and amount of the 
mortgage at the time. So, when Mr and Mrs C wanted to increase the amount 
borrowed and extend the term to 21 years, the existing policy didnt provide full 
protection for the amount and term. If action wasnt taken to provide suitable cover, 
there would be a shortfall. 
A mortgage protection policy has a fixed sum assured and a fixed term. It cant be 
amended. So, I dont believe PRIMIS did anything wrong when they recommended a 
new policy for the new mortgage amount and term.
Although Mr and Mrs C say PRIMIS didnt make it clear they recommended replacing 
the existing policy, I am satisfied, on balance, the evidence shows they did. Mr and 
Mrs C signed the LARQ on 19 January 2016. This clearly explained the existing 
policy should be cancelled and that it was Mr and Mrs Cs responsibility to cancel it. 
PRIMIS also sent Mr and Mrs C a summary of demands and needs letter on 30 
January 2016 that confirmed they had recommended the existing policy be cancelled 
once the new policy was in place. The same letter summed up the advice in this 
regard as:
You are planning on cancelling {the existing} policy when the new application is 
accepted. This is because the existing policy has a term sum assured that is 
inappropriate for your new mortgage application. I have told you it is your 
responsibility to cancel the existing policy and its associated direct debit. We have 
discussed the underwriting process regarding the proposed new policy and I have 
advised you to keep your existing cover in place until such a time that the 
underwriting process is complete, you have accepted the final terms offered and the 
policy has commenced.
I have considered the views of Mr and Mrs C that the investigator based his findings 
only on the signed LARQ form, but I can see that he later forwarded them a copy of 
the summary of demands and needs letter dated 30 January 2016. The investigator 
explained he had also relied on this letter when forming his opinion. I acknowledge 
Mr and Mrs C say they dont have a copy of this letter either, but on the balance of 
probability Im satisfied it was sent.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs C say PRIMIS didnt provide a copy of the LARQ they 
signed, but the fact that Mr and Mrs C signed the document on 19 January 2016 
persuades me they were more likely than not aware the existing policy would need to 
be cancelled by them. Of course, it may be that Mr and Mrs C didnt read the 
declaration, but I consider they would reasonably have known from the 30 January 
2016 letter that PRIMIS recommended they took out a new policy to replace the 
existing policy, and the reasons why. The same letter also explained Mr and Mrs C 
were responsible for cancelling the existing policy and the direct debit set up to pay it.
The summary of demands and needs referred to the key features document 
illustration PRIMIS provided and is a stand-alone record of the advice they gave. I do 
think it wouldve been better if PRIMIS had sent a copy of the signed LARQ when it 
sent out the summary of demands and needs letter. I have noted Mr and Mrs Cs 
comment that they werent told why they needed to amend or increase the policy, but 
the summary of demands and needs does reasonably explain why the new policy 
was needed.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs C say that if PRIMIS had told them at the initial meeting 
on 19 January 2016 that they were responsible for cancelling the existing policy they 
wouldve noted this down. However, Im satisfied that the signed LARQ and the 
summary of demands and needs persuade me PRIMIS likely told Mr and Mrs C they 
needed to cancel the existing policy.
Mis-sold policy in 2016Mr and Mrs C say the new policy was mis-sold as there was no legal requirement for 
them to have the policy when they re-mortgaged in 2016 and they didnt need it.
I have seen the new policy was to protect a repayment mortgage of £160,500 over 
21 years, which is the amount and term of the new mortgage. The existing policy 
didnt provide this level of sum assured and it didnt match the term of the new 
mortgage.
PRIMIS provided a recommendation that the policy was suitable for the mortgage. 
The demands and needs letter dated 30 January 2016 explained why PRMIS had 
recommended this policy and why it met their needs. The fact that the mortgage 
lender didnt insist the policy was needed isnt the issue here. Mr and Mrs C received 
advice from PRIMIS that the new policy would meet their needs and I dont consider 
this was unsuitable advice in the circumstances, or that it was mis-sold.
I invited all parties to let me have any further comments before I reached a final decision. In 
their response, Mr and Mrs C say they didnt receive a copy of any document that said it was 
their responsibility to cancel the existing policy, so had no document to rely on. They added 
the document they did sign was signed in a confusing financial meeting. PRIMIS havent 
provided any further comments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Replacement policy and cancellation of existing policy.
I have some empathy with Mr and Mrs C as Im sure there was a lot of financial information 
for them to take in at the meeting in January 2016. However, I have been provided with two 
different versions of what happened that day. One is that they werent told it was their 
responsibility to cancel the existing policy and the other version is that they were.
When I am faced with different versions of events I look at the evidence available. Its not 
that I dont accept what Mr and Mrs C say, but in this case Im persuaded that the LARQ 
they signed gives more weight to the view that they would reasonably have been aware it 
was their responsibility to cancel the existing policy when the new one started. Both their 
signatures are on this document, and both signatures are directly below the section marked 
in bold:
IMPORTANT: Your existing contract should not be discontinued until such time as you have 
received written notification from the recommended Provider that the new contract is on risk. 
It is your responsibility to discontinue the contract and premiums and cancel premiums at the 
appropriate time. 
Mr and Mrs C are disappointed that I said that on the balance of probability they were made 
aware of their responsibility to cancel the existing policy. I acknowledge that they cant 
provide evidence they werent told they should cancel the existing policy, but unfortunately 
their further comments in this regard dont change my view. So, I remain satisfied that Mr 
and Mrs C were reasonably aware PRIMIS were arranging a new policy to protect the 
mortgage, based on the term and amount borrowed, and that this was to replace the existing 
policy because it couldnt be amended to align with the new mortgage.
Mis-sold policy in 2016.
Neither Mr and Mrs C nor PRIMIS have provided further comments regarding the suitability 
of the new life cover policy taken out in 2016.I remain satisfied the policy term and the sum assured of the 2016 policy matched the new 
mortgage, and therefore the policy PRIMIS recommended wasnt unsuitable in the 
circumstances. So, having considered the comments and further evidence provided, Ive 
reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision and for the same 
reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman