DRN-2378841
The complaint
Mr R complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) applied the incorrect exchange 
rate to inbound payments received in a foreign currency. 
What happened
In June 2019, Mr R asked his employer to pay him in US dollars. He says this was so 
Nationwide would convert the inbound payment into sterling as he felt their exchange rate 
was good. He said he received the payments in July and August and there were no issues 
and the correct exchange rate was applied. 
However, he contacted Nationwide to raise concerns about the poor exchange rate to the 
incoming payments in September and October 2019. He said that after checking the website 
the exchange rate was showing incorrectly. He has told us this issue was ongoing until 
March 2020 and feels he has suffered a financial loss as a result. 
Nationwide responded in October 2019 and said that on incoming payments they use the 
standard inbound exchange rate at the time the payment is received. They explained that 
they wouldnt pre-book foreign exchange rate deals for incoming payments. Additionally, if 
he wanted to know exactly what the exchange rate was going to be then it should be 
converted by the bank sending the funds. Nationwide also sent a response to the complaint 
in November 2019. They didnt uphold it and said the correct rates were applied. 
Mr R remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. After looking into things, the 
investigator felt that Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong. Mr R didnt agree with this 
view. Therefore, the case passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R spoke with Nationwide over the phone in May and June 2019. Mr R says Nationwide 
promised the exchange rate in a phone call. Nationwide have confirmed theyve checked 
and have no record of any further relevant telephone calls with Mr R. And the evidence Ive 
considered doesnt persuade me that they should have any further records. 
Ive listened to these phone calls and note Mr R asked about the exchange rate for incoming 
payments. The call handler also looked online for some information about the exchange 
rates. But Im not satisfied from what Nationwide had told him that they offered an agreed 
exchange rate for inbound payments. 
Additionally, I can see Nationwide provided a response to a separate complaint in June 
2019. To be clear, Ive not considered the merits of this other complaint because it is a 
separate issue. However, in their response they said they would apply the standard inbound 
exchange rate at the time the payment was received. I understand it was further to this 
correspondence that Mr R asked his employer to pay him in US dollars. However, the 
correspondence doesnt convince me that there was an agreed exchange rate.
In addition to this, Ive considered the other information available to Mr R at the time. This 
includes the terms and conditions for his account. I can see Nationwide confirmed that if the 
payment was in a foreign currency, then they would convert the payment into sterling using 
their standard inbound exchange rate. And that this exchange rate may vary. 
Also, I note Mr R says hed seen the correct rates on Nationwides website. Therefore, Ive 
considered their webpage about current exchange rates. Prominently displayed at the top of 
the page, Nationwide state that the exchange rate for payments into an account may be 
different because they would convert the payment using their latest standard inbound 
exchange rate. They explained the rate would be shown on the account statement.
 
I appreciate Mr R feels strongly that Nationwide should be transparent about the rates for 
exchanging incoming payments on their website. I understand the point Mr R has made 
here. But Nationwide dont have control over the timing of incoming payments or when 
theyre received, and the exchange rates vary depending on this. Instead the exchange rate 
is displayed on the bank statements and Im content this is reasonably transparent.
 
Also, Mr R contacted Nationwide about the exchange rate applied to payments he received 
in September and October 2019. Ive reviewed the emails and can see Nationwide explained 
that if he wanted to know the exchange rate in advance then he could ask the sending bank 
to convert it. They explained they wouldnt pre-book rates. Therefore, if Mr R remained 
concerned, he had the opportunity to make different arrangements before further payments 
were received in US dollars. 
Moreover, Mr R says that Nationwide didnt respond after they told him theyd be in touch in 
November 2019. I appreciate at this time he was enquiring about the exchange rates. 
However, Ive seen theyd already explained the exchange rates in their correspondence in 
October. Also, they provided further information in their complaint response of 14 November. 
So, Im not convinced theyve done anything wrong. 
Overall, Im satisfied Nationwide were fair and reasonable in respect of the rates applied. Mr 
R requested that his employer pay him in US dollars for Nationwide to convert to sterling. 
The evidence doesnt convince me that they agreed an exchange rate with Mr R. The 
information provided also explained it would be the standard rate at the time the payment 
was received and that rates could vary. Therefore, I cant say there was any agreement in 
respect of what rate would be applied or that Nationwide were unclear about this. 
Whilst I understand Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, the standard exchange rates 
for inbound payments were displayed on Mr Rs bank statements and I can see this is what 
was applied. Nationwide have also confirmed this. Therefore, Im content they acted fairly 
and reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman