DRN-3553565
The complaint
Miss G complains about PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA and their decision to decline the 
claim she made under their Buyer Protection Policy (BPP).
What happened
At the start of March 2022, Miss G purchased an item from a seller, who Ill refer to as V, 
using her PayPal account. But Miss G was unhappy with the item she received and so, on 
25 March, Miss G raised a Significantly Not as Described (SNAD) claim under PayPals 
BPP.
PayPal considered the evidence Miss G provided but found in Vs favour as the item had 
been washed. So, PayPal thought the item had been altered since it was received. Miss G 
appealed this decision, but PayPal denied this appeal and the claim was closed in Vs 
favour. Miss G was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss G didnt think PayPals decision to decline the claim was fair. She explained the item 
she intended to purchase was a wig containing human hair and so, she thought it was 
natural for her to wash it. And she thought washing the item shouldnt have let to the 
damage it did. So, she maintained her belief shed paid for an item that was SNAD and 
because of this, she thought she should be refunded.
PayPal responded and didnt agree. They thought they had declined the claim fairly, in line 
with the terms set out in the BPP. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. 
Miss G remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think PayPal acted fairly 
when saying the item had been altered, as they thought it was reasonable to assume a 
human hair wig would need to be washed. And they pointed to Vs messages to Miss G 
where they didnt question Miss Gs decision to wash the item before applying it. As PayPal 
had been unable to provide any evidence provided by V during the claim, our investigator 
thought, based on the information they were able to see, that the item Miss G received was 
SNAD. And so, they thought the claim shouldve been upheld. Because of this, they thought 
PayPal should refund Miss G the payment she made for the item, if she hadnt been 
successful with her banks chargeback. And if this is the case, they thought PayPal should 
add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date of payment to the date of refund.
Miss G accepted this recommendation. But PayPal didnt, without providing further 
comments. As PayPal didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the fact that PayPal arent responsible for the quality of the item 
Miss G purchased from V. So, Miss G receiving an item she wasnt happy with isnt evidence 
of PayPal acting unfairly. Nor does it automatically guarantee Miss G the right to a refund of 
the payment she made.
But PayPal do have a BPP in place to protect customers in these sorts of situations, 
providing customers the opportunity to claim for a refund. So, Ive considered whether I think 
PayPal assessed Miss Gs SNAD claim and the supporting evidence fairly, in line with the 
terms of the BPP. And that their decision to decline the claim was a fair one. And in this 
situation, I dont think it was. 
PayPal have confirmed Miss Gs claim was declined as the item she received had been 
altered since it had been delivered. Specifically, because Miss G had washed the hair shed 
received. So, Ive considered this reasoning against the terms of the BPP to ensure the 
claim had been declined within the terms, in a fair and reasonable manner.
PayPals BPP explains an item may be considered SNAD for a variety of reasons. These 
reasons include The item is materially different from the sellers description of it, The 
condition of the item was misrepresented and The item is unusable in its received state.
Ive seen Vs description of the item, which explains the hair was 100% original single donor 
hairnot treated with chemicals, not dyedexcellent quality for bleaching to toneserve for 
a long time. I think this description suggests the hair would be able to be treated in line with 
a customers preference. And that despite this, the hair was expected to service for a long 
time.
But Miss G has provided testimony, as well as photos, which show after washing the hair for 
the first time, the wig itself had shedded a large amount of hair. And from what I can see, 
colour was running out of the hair which goes against Vs description of the hair not being 
dyed or treated with chemicals. So, I think Miss Gs testimony, and her supporting evidence, 
satisfies me her item qualified to be considered as a SNAD claim under the terms of 
PayPals BPP.
The BPP also provides situations where a SNAD claim cant be considered or may be 
declined. And none of these reasons include where an item has been altered since its 
delivery. Nor can I see that alterations are included in any other general exclusions. So, I 
dont think Miss G wouldve reasonably known through the BPP that she wouldnt be able to 
wash the hair and still qualify for an SNAD claim.
And even if this was made clear, I dont think it wouldve been fair to decline the claim on this 
basis in this situation. I think its reasonable for Miss G to assume shed be able to wash the 
item on a regular basis, as it was a wig with natural human hair. Vs sale description of the 
item suggests customers could bleach and tone the hair, so I think its reasonable to assume 
the hair would be able to withstand regular washes. And Ive seen the messages between 
Miss G and V where she explains shes washed the item and I cant see that V raised any 
concerns about Miss G doing so. If the item wasnt intended to be washed, I wouldve 
expected V to have made this clear at this point. But I cant see they did.
So, I dont think PayPal have acted fairly when declining the claim based on the fact the item 
had been altered. I appreciate PayPal may not agree with this. And I recognise they say they 
received evidence from V that supports their decision to decline the claim. But I havent been 
provided with this evidence and so, my decision is based solely on the information available to me.
As I dont think PayPal have acted fairly, Ive then proceeded to think about what I think 
PayPal should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Miss G back in the position she wouldve 
been in, had PayPal acted fairly in the first place.
In this situation, had PayPal have acted fairly, I think its most likely the claim wouldve been 
upheld as I believe the evidence Miss G provided is significant and strongly suggests the 
item she received wasnt as described.
So, it follows that Miss G wouldve received a refund of the payment she made to V. So, I 
think this payment should be refunded to her. And I think 8% simple interest should be 
added to this amount, from the date the claim was declined to the date of refund, to 
recognise the amount of time Miss G has not had access to these funds.
But our service is also unable to place Miss G in a position of betterment, as we are an 
independent and impartial organisation. And I am aware Miss G raised a chargeback with 
her bank as an alternative method to receive a refund. So, if this chargeback has already 
been successful, and Miss G has received a refund, then I wouldnt expect PayPal to provide 
Miss G with an additional refund as this would leave her in an improved financial position. 
PayPal should contact Miss G directly to confirm the status of her chargeback claim.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Miss Gs complaint about PayPal (Europe) Sarl et 
Cie SCA and I direct them to take the following action:
Refund Miss G the payment she made to V, if this refund hasnt already been 
provided through her chargeback claim; and
Pay 8% simple interest on the payment, from the date Miss Gs SNAD claim was 
declined to the date the refund is received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman