DRN-3134358
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has introduced a new security measure that 
requires him to have a mobile telephone.
What happened
Mr R says HSBC introduced a new verification system without telling him that requires a 
mobile telephone to receive a security code. He says that was an appalling way to treat a 
longstanding customer and he expects a higher level of service. Mr R says he doesnt wish 
to purchase a mobile telephone and says other banks allow the use of a landline. He would 
like a detailed explanation from HSBC about why it didnt have an arrangement in place for 
those that do not have a mobile telephone and about why it didnt allow the existing 
arrangement to remain until a solution was found.
HSBC says it has explained why it made the change and has provided Mr R with a detailed 
explanation. It says it will agree a temporary arrangement with Mr R as long as he accepts 
there is a greater security risk. HSBC has offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience 
Mr R was caused.
Mr R had brought his complaint to us and told us he would accept the compensation but still 
wanted an explanation about the matters he raised directly with HSBC and with us. Our 
investigator thought the compensation offer appropriate and thought HSBC had provided an 
explanation to Mr R, but it wasnt our role to order HSBC to reveal potentially commercially 
sensitive information.
Mr R doesnt accept that view and says he should be given £300 compensation. He says 
HSBC hasnt followed the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines and questions why 
he wasnt offered a solution before. He also questions why a code cant be sent via a 
landline and would like this service to direct HSBC answer his questions and provide the 
explanations he would like.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the view that HSBC has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer and has provided sufficient information about the rationale for its 
decisions about this issue. I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed by my decision and also 
appreciate how strongly he feels about this complaint. I make clear to Mr R that I have read 
his detailed submissions to us but may not comment on all of the matters raised and will 
focus on what I consider to be the main issues.
I hope Mr R appreciates that we are not HSBCs regulator and its not for us to order it to 
provide to its customers what I think it likely is likely to be commercially sensitive material 
about its decision making on this issue in any greater detail than it has already provided. 
I accept Mr R wasnt told about the security change and that would have caused him some 
inconvenience. But Im satisfied that HSBC has offered him what I think is a fair and 
reasonable compensation amount of £100. I find that offer is fair and reasonable and fairly 
reflects what took place. I dont think Mr R suffered any financial loss and can see that he 
was at one point prepared to accept that offer.
I accept Mr R will have unanswered questions here that this service cant answer and that he 
has raised a number of issues he would like answers about. I cant fairly order HSBC provide 
answers to some of those questions for the reasons I have explained and am satisfied that 
HSBC has given a reasonable explanation for what took place. And that it has acted fairly by 
agreeing to allow Mr R to use other methods of authentication.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer. Mr Rs 
acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint. I also find that 
this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of £100. Mr Rs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman