DRN-2742028
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, is holding her liable for card 
transactions she made via third party electronic payment services provider (The EPSP) 
which the EPSP had advised her were declined.
What happened
On 16 December 2019, Miss P was making some retail purchases online and was using an 
EPSP to which her Halifax card was linked. However, at the time that she made these 
transactions, Miss P received messages from the EPSP informing her that the transactions 
were declined. Because of this, Miss P proceeded to make the transactions the following day 
using a different payment method.
Some time later, in May 2020, Miss P checked her Halifax statements and noticed that the 
transactions she had attempted to make on 16 December 2019, which she believed had 
been declined, had in fact gone through. This meant that Miss P had paid for the items twice. 
Miss P contacted Halifax on 26 May 2020 to inquire about raising a chargeback for the 
duplicated transactions and was asked by Halifax to raise the matter with the EPSP.
Miss P wasnt able to reach an acceptable resolution with the EPSP, so she called Halifax 
again on 2 June 2020. At this time, Miss P was told by Halifax that there was a 120-time 
period within which a chargeback request could be made, and that this time period had 
expired in April 2020. Miss P wasnt happy about this, so she made a complaint.
Halifax looked at Miss Ps complaint. They remained of the opinion that the time period 
within which Miss P could apply for a chargeback had elapsed, but they acknowledged that 
they should have explained this point to Miss P more clearly when she first called them on 
26 May 2020. So, Halifax offered Miss P £50 compensation by way of apology for not 
providing the right information when she had first called.
Miss P wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Halifax had ultimately 
advised Miss P correctly and that the time period within which Miss P was eligible to make a 
chargeback request had expired, and that the £50 that Halifax had offered Miss P not telling 
her this when they first should have done was fair and reasonable. So, they didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Miss P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is complicated slightly by the presence of the EPSP, and Ive had to take care 
when reviewing this case to ensure that my decision here is based on the actions, or non-
actions, of Halifax, given that this is a complaint specifically against them and not against the 
EPSP. This means that Ive approached my review of this complaint by asking whether 
Halifax did what it should have done here or whether its the case that Halifax committed an 
error or omission of some kind which has impacted Miss P in relation to these payments.
From Halifaxs perspective, Miss P authorised the transactions when she attempted to make 
them via the EPSP, with whom Miss P had linked her Halifax card. And from Halifaxs 
perspective, those transactions were successful and went through, as evidenced by the fact 
that they were listed on Miss Ps account, and her account statement, immediately following 
the transaction attempts. This means that the success of the transactions was visible to Miss 
P on her account statements from the time that the transactions were attempted in 
December 2019.
Importantly, it wasnt Halifax who advised Miss P that these transactions hadnt been 
successful  it was the EPSP. This means that its difficult to conclude that Halifax have 
made any kind of error or omission here. From Halifaxs perspective, the transactions were 
attempted and authorised, the money left Miss Ps account, and the transactions were 
recorded on Miss Ps account for her review as having been successful immediately after 
their taking place  and this is exactly what would be expected of Halifax here.
I have also looked at whether Halifax should have processed a chargeback claim to try to 
recover the transaction amounts for Miss P here. 
Its important to first clarify what a chargeback dispute is. Its a process by which some 
disputes are resolved between the card issuer  in this case Halifax  and merchants, under 
the relevant scheme rules. These rules are set by the card provider  in this case Visa - 
whose symbol is on the card. Visa has an agreement with banks and building societies as to 
how its cards are used, and this agreement covers when an attempt at a chargeback can be 
made. 
The rules are quite strict, and Halifax doesn't have the power to change them. One such rule 
is a time limit imposed by the chargeback scheme after which chargeback claims wont be 
considered, and in this case the time limit was 120-days from the date of the transactions.
Unfortunately, when Miss P first contacted Halifax about these transactions, on 26 May 
2020, this 120-day time limit had already expired. This meant that it was never the case, at 
the time of that call, that a chargeback claim could be raised for Miss P. This wasnt 
explained to Miss P at that time, and it is for this reason that Halifax have offered Miss P 
compensation of £50  because they didnt inform Miss P that the chargeback process 
wouldnt be available to her when she first called  and this offer of compensation by Halifax 
for this reason feels fair to me. 
Its also important to note that a chargeback claim isnt a right that a customer has  its a 
voluntary act, and this means that Halifax werent required to ask Visa for the transactions to 
be reversed via the chargeback scheme, although it is considered good practice for them to 
do so, if they think the chargeback claim is likely to succeed. But in this case, it was 
reasonable for Halifax to feel that a claim wouldnt be successful, because the 120-day time 
limit since the day of the transactions had expired.
All of which means that I cant fairly or reasonably say that Halifax have acted in any way 
inappropriately here such that I would consider upholding this complaint against them. I can 
certainly sympathise with Miss Ps position here, and it would be hoped that Halifax would 
work with her in liaising with the EPSP to uncover what has gone wrong, but I cant fairly say 
that Halifax should compensate Miss P in the way that she wants in this instance, because I cant find any evidence that Halifax have done anything in regard to these transactions other 
than that which would be expected of them.
It follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Halifax to take any 
further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Miss P was wanting, 
but I hope that she can understand, given everything I have explained above, why I have 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman