DRN-2673128
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line intended to deal 
with a claim he made under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P used an airport parking service when he went on holiday. While Mr P was away, his car 
was involved in an incident with another car, colliding into the rear of a stationary vehicle at 
traffic lights. The third party made a claim to UKI. Mr P made a claim for damage to his car to 
be repaired. He said the front and rear bumper, as well as the sides of his car had been 
damaged. 
An engineer on behalf of UKI reported that there was damage to the front bumper which was 
consistent with the incident. But he found the remaining damage couldnt have been caused 
by the incident as described. The scratch damage was considered to be a separate 
vandalism incident  and so UKI told Mr P he would need to pay two excesses for the two 
incident related repairs to be completed under the policy. 
Mr P didnt agree with UKI that he should pay any excess. He wanted it to recover the costs 
of the claim from the airport parking service company. So he raised a complaint. 
UKI said its decision was correct and in line with the policy terms. However, it accepted it 
had caused some poor service in the information it provided and some delay in handling the 
claim. For this it offered Mr P £100 compensation, which he rejected. 
Mr P asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator initially thought UKI hadnt been 
reasonable in asking Mr P to pay two excesses. But on reviewing further information 
provided by UKI, she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKIs 
decision to charge Mr P two excesses was fair as the damage - other than the front bumper - 
couldnt have been caused by the front to rear collision. 
Due to the circumstances, as a goodwill gesture UKI said it would allow Mr Ps No Claims 
Discount (NCD) so that it wasnt reduced as a result of the claims. Our investigator thought 
overall UKI had been reasonable to Mr P.
Mr P didnt agree. In summary he says he has suffered losses due to not being able to have 
his car repaired and sell it as he intended, which he wants UKI to reimburse him for. He says 
all he knows is his car was damaged while he was out of the country. He paid for car 
insurance to protect him in these circumstances. So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ps upset at being asked to pay two excesses. He says he wasnt there 
when the incident happened and says UKI should recover the costs including the excess 
from the company that collected his car from the airport. 
Mr Ps policy with UKI says it can take over the defence and settlement of a claim in Mr Ps 
name. This means UKI might make a decision Mr P disagrees with, but the policy allows UKI 
to do this. In this case, UKI has attempted to look to recover its costs from the parking 
service company, but without success. UKI can decide not to continue to pursue the 
company and settle the claim on the best terms possible. We dont disagree with a business 
approach provided it can show it treated its customer fairly when applying the term.
In consideration of Mr Ps circumstances, UKI agreed to allow his NCD not to reduce as a 
result of the claims. I think this was a fair and reasonable approach for UKI to take. And I 
agree with UKIs view that the scratch damage to the sides and bonnet of Mr Ps car couldnt 
have been caused by the impact damage when his car collided into the rear of another car. 
UKI provided photos and found there was scratch damage consistent with an object such as 
a key or nails being dragged along the paintwork. The third party driver gave an account to 
say they were at a red light when the driver of Mr Ps car collided into the rear of them. And 
so I think it was reasonable of UKI to treat the damage apart from the front of Mr Ps car as a 
separate vandalism claim. 
UKI accepts there were times when it could have progressed the claim but failed to do so. 
For its delay, UKI offered Mr P compensation of £100, which he refused. UKI said the offer 
was open indefinitely and so if or when Mr P wishes to accept it, he could let it know and it 
will raise the payment. 
I appreciate that Mr P feels he should be compensated for his time spent contacting the 
airport parking service company, the police and UKI. I think its reasonable to expect a 
degree of inconvenience when having to deal with a claim. Unfortunately I think its 
inevitable.
I think the compensation UKI has offered Mr P for some delay is fair and line with awards we 
give in similar circumstances. Mr P didnt want to pay the excess in order to have his car 
repaired. UKI looked to redirect the third partys claim to the insurer of the airport parking 
service company. It regularly chased the company for details of their insurance by phone 
and email. But the company didnt co-operate. So as things stood, UKI would have to deal 
with the third party claim for their losses as it was legally obliged to under the Road Traffic 
Act as the last insurer of the car at the time of the incident.
The excess is the first part of a claim which Mr P is responsible for paying, irrespective of 
fault. If a claim settles as a non-fault claim and an insurer can recover its costs from a third 
party including the excess, it can then reimburse the excess to the policyholder. Mr P doesnt 
believe he should have to pay any excess  and so the repairs to his car havent been 
carried out. The repair costs - and the excess paid  can form part of the claim an insurer 
makes to a third party insurer for losses. 
I understand Mr P is upset as he wasnt driving when the damage was caused to his or the 
third partys car. But I dont think UKI is responsible for the losses Mr P says he has incurred 
due to not being able to sell his car. I think Mr P correctly owed the excesses in order to 
have his car repaired  and that UKI treated him as it would any other customer in the same 
circumstances. In order to mitigate his losses, I think Mr P could have arranged for his car to 
be repaired in order to sell it. These actions wouldnt have prevented Mr P from pursuing his 
complaint. I realise Mr P will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think UKI made a reasonable 
offer of compensation for some delay in its handling of the claim. I dont think its poor service 
changed the outcome, due to the lack of co-operation from the airport company despite 
UKIs requests for information. So I dont think UKI needs to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman