DRN-2060146
The complaint
Miss C complains that when she asked Barclays Bank UK PLC to change the payment date 
on her credit card, she got a reassurance that the changes and payments she planned to 
make wouldnt affect her credit file. But they did.
What happened
In August 2019, Miss C asked Barclays to change the payment date for her Barclaycard, 
because she gets paid shortly after the direct debit leaves her account. Barclays amended 
the payment date for her, but it couldnt change the date for that month. Miss C said shed 
pay on 20 August, and Barclays said she would be charged a late payment fee, but it would 
be refunded. 
Miss C then found out shed been charged a late payment fee and an overlimit fee. The late 
payment fee took her over her account limits, so Barclays marked this on Miss Cs credit file. 
Miss C complained to Barclays, and it wrote to her saying that it had advised her both a late 
payment fee and overlimit fee would apply. It had told her these fees would be refunded and 
this wouldnt affect her credit file. 
Both fees were refunded, but Barclays did report this, and it did affect her credit file. 
When Miss C complained to us, Barclays wrote again, and said it hadnt recorded a late 
payment, but it had recorded Miss Cs card as over its limit. It then wrote to us, and said 
Miss C wouldve been over her limit even without the late payment fee. 
Miss C pointed out that this wasnt right. She watches her limit closely, and she wasnt over 
before the fees were charged. Barclays looked again, and accepted it was wrong about this, 
but it still didnt think it had made a mistake and wouldnt amend Miss Cs credit file. 
Our investigator didnt think that Barclays had been fair. She said that Barclays had agreed 
to amend the payment date, and had reassured Miss C that the one late payment wouldnt 
affect her credit file. But it had, because a late fee Barclays had already agreed to waive, 
pushed her over her credit limit. Our investigator thought that Barclays should remove the 
note on Miss Cs credit file showing shed gone over her limit, and pay Miss C £100. 
Barclays didnt agree. it said this was part of the terms of the account, and it didnt think its 
advisor couldve realised when talking to Miss C that a late payment fee would push her over 
her credit limit. It thought that it was Miss cs responsibility to realise this, and taken it into 
account, so leave enough headroom in her account for this fee not to push her over her limit. 
Our investigator still thought it wasnt fair to use a fee which was going to be refunded to 
push Miss C over her credit limit, which then affected her credit file. She still thought this 
should be removed. Barclays didnt agree, so the case came to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator on this complaint.
Miss C was careful, when she reset her billing date for her card, to make sure that she 
wasnt going to adversely affect her credit file. She sought reassurance about this on the call 
where she changed her billing date, and again on the call when she asked for her 
promotional rate to be reinstated. But she has been tipped over her credit limit by charges 
applied by Barclays. 
Barclays was happy to waive the charges which took Miss C over her limit, but it wont 
remove the note on her credit file saying she was over her limit. I dont think this provides a 
fair outcome. Barclays never intended that Miss C would have to pay a late fee. It had 
agreed to waive this before it was put on her account. So using that late fee (along with the 
overlimit fee it only charged because of the late fee) to justify recording Miss C as overlimit 
on her credit file, may be in line with the terms and conditions of Miss Cs account. But, in 
the context of what Barclays had already agreed to do, and the reassurances it had given 
Miss C, it simply isnt fair. 
I think that the proposal our investigator made, that Barclays should remove the overlimit 
note on Miss Cs credit file, and pay £100 for the distress this has caused Miss C, does 
provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. Thats the award Ill now make.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should remove the overlimit marker on 
Miss Cs credit file, and pay £100 for the distress this has caused Miss C.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman