DRN-2792933
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about the advice they received from Santander UK Plc when they 
bought a home insurance policy. Where I refer to Santander this includes its agents and call 
handers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M were customers of Santander. During a visit a branch adviser suggested it 
could give them a better rate than their current home insurance policy. So they took their old 
policy to a meeting and said they wanted an identical policy from Santander. Mr and Mrs M 
said Santander was able to offer them a cheaper deal. But because they trusted the adviser 
they didnt check the documents carefully.
When Mr and Mrs M had to make a claim on their Santander policy they discovered it didnt 
include accidental damage cover  even though their previous policy had. So they want 
Santander to settle the claim because they thought they were purchasing the same level of 
cover.
Santander said itd declined a claim for floor damage as accidental damage cover wasnt 
included in the policy. The policy sale had taken place a few years ago. And itd been 
conducted on a non-advised basis. So its representative wasnt required to assess its 
suitability. Instead Mr and Mrs M had been provided with sufficient information to make an 
informed choice about the purchase.
Santander said its records about the questions asked during the sale confirmed Mr and 
Mrs M hadnt added extra accidental damage cover to either buildings or contents. And the 
policy summary and schedule sent to Mr and Mrs M confirmed the level of cover offered. So 
theyd had the opportunity to query anything that wasnt what they expected. 
The policy had been renewed for the past three years. And again on each occasion details 
of the cover had been sent to Mr and Mrs M for review and confirmation. So Santander didnt 
think itd done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with Santanders response. So they contacted our service 
and our investigator looked into the matter. He explained a non-advised sale meant the 
seller wasnt providing any advice or recommendations. And it was up to the policyholder to 
decide if it was suitable. 
He understood Mr and Mrs Ms frustration. But it was their responsibility to read and check 
the policy. Our investigator wasnt convinced Santander had done anything wrong. So he 
wouldnt be asking them to do anything different.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree. Theyre sure Santanders representative mis-sold the policy to 
them. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating this must be for Mr and Mrs M. They wanted the Santander 
home insurance policy to match the policy they already had. Santander says its records 
suggest Mr and Mrs M declined to add accidental damage cover. But theyre sure they 
asked for it to be included because it was in their old policy.
Unfortunately I cant be sure exactly what was said between Mr and Mrs M and the 
representative. Its now over four years since the meeting took place. I know Mr and 
Mrs M are disappointed Santander hasnt been able to provide copies of any written notes 
that mightve been taken. But Santander says it doesnt have any written notes and I 
wouldnt expect a business to take notes at every meeting. 
Santanders records show the sale was conducted on a non-advisory basis. And thats 
confirmed by the welcome letter sent to Mr and Mrs M. This means it wasnt up to the 
representative to offer any advice or recommendations. Theyd have asked Mr and Mrs B a 
series of questions about what they did and didnt want to include in their home insurance 
policy. And it was then the responsibility of the policyholder to check the details matched the 
level of cover they expected. 
Santanders responsibility was to make sure Mr and Mrs B were given clear information 
about what they were buying. So Ive looked at the documentation sent to them to see if it 
was sufficient to make an informed decision about the suitability of the policy.
I can see the welcome letter asks the policyholder to carefully check the policy 
documentation to ensure all the information is correct. And the documents include brief 
summaries of the type of cover chosen. In both the contents and buildings cover section the 
document says no against extra accidental damage cover.
 
The documents say Mr and Mrs M have chosen the product and features they wanted. And it 
says Santander has not commented on whether this policy is suitable or given advice or a 
recommendation. The letter restates that it is the responsibility of the policyholder to read the 
summary and booklet carefully to check the cover is suitable.
The policy was renewed for the following three years and on each occasion Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve been sent a renewal document confirming the level of cover provided. So while I 
can understand their frustration, I cant really say Santander hasnt tried to make it clear to 
Mr and Mrs M what their ongoing home insurance policy actually provided cover for. It was 
clearly stated in both the original documents and the annual renewal documents.
I do appreciate how upsetting this has been for Mr and Mrs M. For a number of years they 
assumed they had the same level of cover as their previous policy. So they wouldve been 
very disappointed when a claim for accidental damage was turned down because the cover 
hadnt been included in their Santander policy.
But I think Santander provided clear and sufficient information about the policy after it was 
purchased. Mr and Mrs M shouldve been aware of the level of cover it provided. I appreciate 
they relied on the adviser to find a policy to match their previous cover. But it was still their 
responsibility to check the details were correct and inform Santander of any problems.
I understand Mr and Mrs M have now been in touch with Santander to add accidental 
damage cover to their policy so that theyre covered for any future incidents. But Im afraid I 
cant ask Santander to accept a claim for accidental damage when it wasnt in place at the 
time of the event. That wouldnt be fair.I know Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on what Ive seen I 
cant really say Santander has done anything wrong. And I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman