DRN-4095544
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr C holds with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money (VM). Hes unhappy that VM didnt properly advise him of the option of shortening his 
term when he contacted it about making a lump sum overpayment. Additionally, Mr C is 
dissatisfied with how VM handled a subject access request (SAR) he made under the 
General Data Protection Regulation.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr C and VM; theyve been set out 
in correspondence between both parties. Im also aware that the investigator issued a 
response to the complaint which has been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to 
repeat all of the details here. Instead, Ill provide a brief summary of the key points, in my 
own words and rounding the figures, and then focus on the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr C wanted to use the facility on his mortgage that allows him to pay up to 10% off the 
balance each year, without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). After speaking with 
VM on the phone several times, he paid a little under £17,500 off the balance. VM told him 
the contractual monthly payment would have to be adjusted downwards to ensure he didnt 
then overpay more than the 10% allowance and incur an ERC. 
Mr C complained in August 2022 after finding out that he could have had the option of 
keeping the monthly payment the same and reducing the term instead. VM offered him £150 
compensation for a lack of clarity in its communications with him; Mr C referred the 
complaint to this service. Separately, Mr C contacted the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) to express his dissatisfaction with the way VM had responded to a SAR he had made.
Our investigator explained that hed be focussing on the mortgage complaint, and that the 
ICO was best placed to look into the SAR. The investigator concluded that VM had failed to 
provide clear information to Mr C about the option of a term reduction. Initially he explored 
the option of having the mortgage reconstructed on the basis that a term reduction had been 
put in place instead of a monthly payment reduction. VM provided figures for various 
different term reductions and the investigator discussed them with Mr C. 
However, any such adjustment would have required Mr C to make up the extra amounts that 
he would have been paying each month in the meantime.  He explained he wasnt in a 
position to do that, meaning that the outcome of the complaint was about the right level of 
compensation for his time, trouble and upset. The investigator assessed everything and 
concluded that VMs offer of £150 was fair. Mr C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In asking for the case to be reviewed, Mr C has commented further on the issues he has 
with how VM handled the SAR. Generally speaking, these are matters more appropriately 
addressed by the ICO, and Mr C has told us hes in contact with that organisation. 
We can consider whether the way a SAR has been handled has impacted on our capacity to 
deal with the underlying complaint about the financial service. However, Im satisfied thats 
not a factor here. This is a decision about fair redress, and I have everything on file that I 
need to assess that.
Mr C has gone into some detail about why he considers a fair sum to be £750 rather than 
the £150 VM offered, and which the investigator adjudged to be fair. In particular, he points 
to the amount of time that has passed since the events giving rise to the complaint, and the 
ongoing stress he has encountered as a result. I take Mr Cs point on the time aspect, but its 
important to remember that VMs offer of compensation was made in December 2022, in 
response to a complaint that started in August 2022. 
I have to consider not whether an offer is fair, but also when it was made. Taking everything 
into consideration, Im persuaded VMs final response to the complaint was fair and 
reasonable. Mr C wasnt obliged to accept the offer: it was entirely his prerogative to 
continue with the complaint by referring it to our service. I imply no criticism of him for 
continuing with the complaint, and none should be inferred. But it was his choice to do so 
rather than draw the dispute, and the associated upset, to a conclusion on receipt of an offer 
that I consider fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined myself to those matters that I consider have a material effect on 
the outcome. I can see from their submissions how important this is to Mr C. Thats a natural 
reaction, and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as he has been 
here. 
But I have to be objective, and impartial, and sometimes that means stepping back from the 
fine detail, taking an overview and deciding what is fair, reasonable and pragmatic in all the 
overall circumstances of the case. It also means that Im not required to provide answers to 
every specific question that comes up if I dont consider doing so will affect the overall 
outcome. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should settle this 
complaint fully and finally by paying Mr C £150. I make no other order or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman