DRN-4290282
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how AWP P&C SA (AWP) handled a claim under her private 
medical insurance policy. Mrs M also complains because AWP refused to renew her policy, 
at a time when she was undergoing medical investigations. 
All references to AWP include the agents appointed to administer claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mrs M took out a private medical insurance policy, provided by AWP, which started on 1 
March 2022. 
In November 2022, Mrs M made a claim under the policy and sent AWP a private referral 
letter from her GP. AWP replied to Mrs M on the same day and said it appeared from the 
information provided that Mrs Ms claim related to a pre-existing medical condition and, so, 
wouldnt be covered under her policy. AWP said it would reassess the claim if Mrs M had 
any other medical evidence. 
The following day, Mrs M sent AWP another private referral letter from her GP. She asked 
AWP to remove the previous referral letter from her claim, as it contained incorrect 
information. A few days later, Mrs M also sent AWP an extract from her medical records 
dating from February 2020, which she said showed that the condition she was claiming for 
wasnt pre-existing. In response, AWP said it would need further information from Mrs Ms 
GP and sent Mrs M a consent form to complete. AWP subsequently sent Mrs M a copy of a 
medical report for her GP to complete if she wished to arrange for this to be done herself.  
In December 2022, Mrs M sent AWP a letter from her GP in support of her request for a 
private referral. On the same day, AWP told Mrs M that the available information indicated 
her medical condition was pre-existing, and that it wouldnt reassess her claim unless Mrs M 
either arranged for her GP to complete the medical report or returned a signed consent form 
to allow AWP to contact her GP directly
A few days later, Mrs M sent AWP another private referral letter from her GP. Mrs M said her 
previous GP wouldnt complete the required medical report and she was waiting for her 
current GP to do so. AWP reiterated that it would need a completed medical report in order 
to review the claim and, if there was an issue with Mrs Ms medical records, shed need to 
speak to her current GP about updating these. AWP sent Mrs M another medical consent 
form to complete if she wished for AWP to contact her GP directly. 
In early January 2023, Mrs M sent AWP a medical report completed by her GP but AWP 
said there was information missing. Mrs M subsequently sent AWP an email from her GP 
surgery about incorrect information which had been provided previously, as well as 
information about previous A&E attendances. After reviewing this evidence, AWP said it 
would need to contact Mrs Ms GP directly about her medical history and it sent Mrs M a new 
consent form to complete. Around the same time, AWP told Mrs M it would only 
communicate with her via email because of what it said were her rude and disrespectful 
interactions with its staff over the telephone. 
On 31 January 2023, after receiving and reviewing further information received from Mrs Ms 
GP, AWP said it would pay for Mrs Ms initial consultants appointment but that her claim for 
the costs of a scan wouldnt be covered as the scan was related to a pre-existing medical 
condition. 
AWP wrote to Mrs M on 1 February 2023 to say it wouldnt be renewing her policy. 
On 6 February 2023, AWP authorised payment for further tests, including a follow-up 
consultation with a specialist to discuss the test results.   
Having complained to AWP at various points throughout the claims process, Mrs M brought 
the matter to the attention of our service.  
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she didnt think AWP had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. Mrs M didnt agree with our 
investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me as the final stage in our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rules set out by the industry regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say that insurers 
must handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. The rules 
also say insurers should provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim, 
as well as appropriate information on the claims progress. Ive taken these rules into account 
when making my final decision about Mrs Ms complaint. 
A policyholder has a duty to provide sufficient evidence to demonstrate that they have a valid 
claim under their insurance policy, and an insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries 
and request reasonable information to satisfy itself that a claim satisfies the criteria for 
payment under the policy terms and conditions before accepting cover. Id expect a 
policyholder to cooperate with an insurers reasonable requests for information. In my 
experience of dealing with complaints like this one, its not unusual for an insurer to require 
the completion of a GPs medical report when assessing a claim and I dont think it was 
unreasonable for AWP to do so here. 
It's not up to Mrs M  or her GP, her insurance broker or her solicitor - to decide what 
evidence AWP reasonably needs to assess whether there is a valid claim under her policy, 
or to seek to interpret what the pre-existing medical condition exclusion and/or the 
moratorium provisions mean  thats for AWPs medical team to do under the terms of 
AWPs contract with Mrs M. 
I accept that Mrs M says the first private referral letter which she provided from her GP 
contained incorrect information. But, if that was the case, then that was something which Mrs 
M needed to take up with her GP directly so her GP could confirm to AWP what the errors 
were. AWP had no way of knowing at the outset how long Mrs M had been with her GP and 
AWP was reasonably entitled to rely on the contemporaneous medical evidence which Mrs 
M submitted in support of her claim. Based on the content of this first referral letter, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for AWP to conclude that Mrs Ms claim likely related to a pre-
existing medical condition. And AWP offered to reassess Mrs Ms claim if she provided new 
medical information, which I think was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I wouldnt have expected AWP to entirely disregard the content of the first referral letter based purely on Mrs Ms testimony, without specific clarification from the doctor whod 
written the letter about what the inaccuracies or errors were. The second private referral 
letter didnt confirm this. While the second letter removed reference to Mrs M having 
significant chest issues over the last year or so, it inserted a reference to Mrs M having a 
persistent cough. I dont think this second letter, even when taken with the time-limited 
extracts of medical records which Mrs M sent to AWP, means that AWP was unreasonable 
in again concluding that Mrs Ms claim likely related to a pre-existing medical condition. 
I dont think the letter from Mrs Ms GP surgery dated 6 December 2022 is persuasive 
medical evidence that the position which AWP had taken was unfair. And Im not satisfied 
that the third private referral letter from Mrs Ms GP dated 9 December 2022 was satisfactory 
evidence upon which it would have been reasonable for AWP to accept this claim without 
the completion of a medical report either. The brief email from Mrs Ms GP surgery dated 9 
January 2023 and the evidence relating to A&E attendance also dont change my findings on 
this point. 
In summary therefore, Im satisfied that AWP wasnt unreasonable in turning down Mrs Ms 
claim based on what I think was the somewhat contradictory and unclear information 
available to it up until this point. And Im also satisfied that AWP was fairly entitled to request 
the medical report it was asking for from Mrs Ms GP. I think AWP did its best to explain to 
Mrs M, on more than one occasion, why this information was needed. While AWP did end up 
accepting Mrs Ms claim in part once it received the completed medical report from her GP, 
this doesnt mean its previous actions were unreasonable. And Im satisfied that AWP gave 
Mrs M the option of AWP contacting her GP directly from as early as 29 November 2022, so 
Mrs M didnt necessarily have to do this herself first.
Overall, I dont think AWP caused any excessive or unreasonable delays when handling Mrs 
Ms claim. Based on the content of some of the calls Ive listened to, I think Mrs M had 
somewhat unrealistic expectations regarding AWPs claims process. Any delays by or 
difficulties Mrs M experienced with her GPs were outside of AWPs control and were for Mrs 
M to resolve with her GPs directly. 
As AWP has repeatedly explained to Mrs M, the moratorium provision applies regardless of 
when a pre-existing condition was diagnosed if the policyholder has had any medication, 
advice, treatment or symptoms [my emphasis added] for that condition or for related 
conditions in the five years before the policy start date. Mrs Ms medical records show she 
was taking medication related to a pulmonary embolism in March 2017, which means the 
moratorium applies to this condition. A letter from Mrs Ms consultant dated 15 December 
2022 says the scan which AWP refused to pay for was arranged in connection with 
investigating effects from previous pulmonary emboli, so, based on the evidence available to 
AWP at the time, Im satisfied that AWP wasnt unfair or unreasonable in refusing to pay for 
the scan  regardless of what the scan subsequently found as any secondary medical 
issues.  
Mrs Ms policy renews annually, as is clearly set out on her policy certificate, regardless of 
the length of time her premiums were fixed for. If Mrs M feels that the annual renewal 
provisions of her policy werent properly explained to her when she bought the policy then 
shed need to raise this with the business who sold her the policy in the first instance. The 
business who sold this policy is a separate and distinct business from AWP who is regulated 
in its own right, and AWP isnt responsible for the sellers actions. 
AWP was under no obligation to offer Mrs M cover on an ongoing basis. The terms of Mrs 
Ms policy say that AWP will tell Mrs M (or the broker) at least 21 days before the end of the 
period of insurance if the policy isnt being renewed. Im satisfied that AWP did this, and that 
Mrs M received a letter from AWP dated 1 February 2023 confirming that her cover would not renew, as this letter formed part of Mrs Ms  original complaint submissions to our 
service.
Ive seen internal emails regarding AWPs decision not to renew Mrs Ms policy and Im 
satisfied this was because of Mrs Ms conduct and comments during telephone calls with its 
staff. Having listened to some of the calls between AWP and Mrs M, I think AWP was 
entitled to take this position in the circumstances, regardless of whether swearing or threats 
were involved. Ive seen no indication that Mrs Ms complaint, the speed at which Mrs M 
provided the information requested and/or the cost of any future claims played any part in 
AWPs decision in this regard. I think AWP was entitled to refuse to renew Mrs Ms policy, 
irrespective of whether or not she was awaiting any further investigations or treatment. And 
the fact that Mrs M had previously agreed to communicate only by email didnt prevent AWP 
from refusing to renew her policy at a later date if it no longer wished to have her as a 
customer. 
Mrs Ms policy only covers treatment which takes place during the period of cover, 
regardless of when pre-authorisation was given. The pre-authorisation code email which 
AWP sent to Mrs M in February 2023 confirmed that treatment would only be covered where 
a policy remained in force. So, the treatment which AWP pre-authorised for Mrs M would 
have been covered under the original policy, but not after that annual policy ended.
In summary therefore, I dont think AWP acted unfairly or unreasonably by refusing to renew 
Mrs Ms policy and I wont be directing AWP to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman