DRN-2755927
The complaint
The estate of Ms K complains about how Santander UK Plc addressed arrears on Ms Ks
mortgage account before her sudden death, and about how Santander dealt with the estate 
after Ms K had died.
What happened
This complaint is brought to our service by Ms Ks grown-up children, one of whom is
executor for the estate, and the other of whom has represented the estate in this complaint.
Ill refer to that representative as Ms C.
Ms C told us that Ms K was unable to work from 2016, due to an injury. When she was first
injured, her mortgage fell into arrears, and whilst she was able to resume payments, she
was never able to clear the arrears.
Ms C said that Ms K was repeatedly given different arrears amounts by Santander, and so
never understood how much she owed. Despite borrowing money to clear what she thought
the arrears were, she was then told she still owed money. Ms C felt strongly that Ms Ks life
had been marred by this, and I understand her children partly blame Santander for Ms Ks
death in November 2019.
Ms C also said that after Ms Ks death, Santander wrote to the estate to say that it could
forward funeral bills to the bank, and those would be settled from Ms Ks accounts. When the
estate did that, there was no money to settle those bills.
Ms C also said the estate was being charged interest on Ms Ks mortgage, which they
couldnt afford to pay. They wanted this interest to be frozen until the house was sold.
Santander said that Ms K took this mortgage out in 2006. She contacted it about difficulties
meeting her monthly payments in early 2017, and Santander agreed to accept reduced
payments at that time.
Santander had also regularly been in contact with Ms K about her mortgage, and had tried to
help where it could. It felt that it had provided appropriate support to Ms K.
Santander also said that although there had been a misunderstanding after Ms K died about
whether she had held other accounts with it, as well as her mortgage, it didnt feel that this
was its fault.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she didnt think
Santander had failed to support Ms K. And she couldnt award compensation to Ms Ks
children for any distress Santander caused while they were dealing with the loss of Ms K.
The rules of our service dont allow her to do that. So she said shed ask Santander to write
a letter of apology.
Ms C didnt agree. She said that Ms Ks children were extremely concerned about 
Santanders treatment of Ms K. They felt she was unsupported, and hounded to tears. 
Ms Ks children wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint, so it was passed to me 
for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only thought a small 
part of it should be upheld. This is what I said then: 
Id like to start my decision by offering my condolences to Ms Ks children for their 
loss, and acknowledging how very upsetting this case must be for them. Ive listened 
to a considerable number of calls that Santander had with Ms K, starting in 2017. I 
think its clear that Ms K was coping with serious health difficulties and also trying to 
manage a very significant reduction in her income at the same time. Whilst she was 
initially hoping to return to work, it doesnt seem, from what Ive heard, as if that was 
possible for her.
The background to this is that Ms K owned her own home, with a mortgage to 
Santander. She wasnt always able to make her full mortgage payments once her 
wages stopped, and was experiencing financial difficulties, unable to pay her bills. 
With a loan like this one, if someone is having difficulty paying, then this is can be 
very distressing, as theres a risk of losing their home. Although in this case it doesnt 
appear that Santander was actively considering legal action to take back Ms Ks 
house, I would expect that this was a great worry for Ms K.
I can hear that Ms K had found this extremely difficult at times. I think thats quite
understandable. But I dont think that Santander failed to assist Ms K. I can hear that, 
in the early days of managing on benefits, when Santander was speaking to Ms K, it 
wasnt just trying to deal with her mortgage but was also checking that shed been 
able to access other help that she was entitled to. And on all its calls, I can hear that 
Santander was careful to make sure that any arrangement it set up for reduced 
payments was still affordable for her.
In early 2018, Ms K was engaging with Santander, and hoping to return to work. But 
in 2019, she said she wasnt able to work, and didnt envisage working again. Shed 
returned to making full payments on her mortgage although she was still managing 
on benefits. She had arrears on her account then.
I know that Ms K found it frustrating and upsetting to be sent letters about arrears on 
her mortgage, but I would expect Santander to keep Ms K informed about these 
arrears. I think Santander still had to do that, even if it knew that Ms K found this 
upsetting.
Ms Ks children have told us she was very distressed to be asked to pay this extra 
money, when she was already struggling to maintain her monthly payments. But 
Santander wasnt trying to get Ms K to just pay those arrears.
Ive listened to calls from 2019 where Santander tried to discuss with Ms K lowering 
the interest rate on her account, and possibly adding the arrears into the mortgage 
balance so that she wouldnt have to pay them as a lump sum, and this wasnt 
hanging over her any more. But Ms K felt very strongly that Santander wasnt helping 
her, and she appears to have been too upset and frustrated to engage with 
Santander about this.
I have listened carefully to these calls, and I dont think that Santander let Ms K 
down, or that it failed to support her.As we know, Ms K sadly died late in 2019.
I understand that there was then a misunderstanding when Ms Ks children told 
Santander that Ms K had died. They had understood that Santander was saying Ms 
K had some other money that could be used to help with funeral costs.
Santander appears to have had a conversation with the funeral directors about this, 
which Santander carried out on the assumption that funds were available. Santander 
may not have been able to tell that funeral director what the position of the accounts 
actually was. But I think that if Santander was having a conversation about paying 
bills from money in Ms Ks account, and it hadnt checked that Ms K actually had 
money in her accounts, that it ought to have made this clear at the time. And it 
doesnt appear, from what Ive seen, that it did so. 
But, as our investigator explained, Im not able to award compensation in this case to 
Ms Ks children for this. They are complaining on behalf of the estate, and the rules 
of our service dont allow me to tell Santander to pay them for distress they have 
experienced personally in settling Ms Ks estate. Im sorry to have to tell them this.
Our investigator asked Santander to write to Ms Ks children to apologise for the
inconvenience that has been caused to them. Whilst I have no powers to make a 
financial award to Ms Ks children, I can instruct Santander to write to the estate with 
an apology for the inconvenience that was caused by Santanders lack of clarity over 
what Ms K had left. So I will do that.
Finally, I dont know if the sale has gone ahead on this property yet. I do hope Ms Ks 
estate has been able to resolve any concerns about meeting the mortgage payments 
in the meantime. But in case they have not, I would like to remind Santander about 
the current FCA guidance for taking action to recover mortgage arrears given the 
impact of the global pandemic. I would expect Santander to continue to treat Ms Ks 
estate in line with this guidance as it continues to evolve over time.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides sent brief replies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said it had nothing to add.
Ms Ks children replied. They said that they were very disappointed, and didnt accept or 
agree with my decision. They said they wouldnt be adding any additional information. 
Ms Ks children also asked that I not instruct Santander to send an apology to them. They 
said that this would feel like an insult from the bank after what has already been a very 
difficult and upsetting time. 
I am sorry if this complaint has added to the distress that Ms Ks children must already be 
feeling. In deference to their wishes, I have amended the final decision, so that an apology 
doesnt need to be sent. That means this complaint will no longer require any further action 
by Santander. Formally, that means the complaint wont be upheld.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms K 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman