DRN-3755514
The complaint
Miss W complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
affordability checks before it granted loans to her. Had it done so, Morses wouldve 
discovered she couldnt afford to repay these loans. 
What happened
Miss W took two loans from Morses between July and October 2021. A summary of her 
borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £300.00 13/07/2021 outstanding 35 £15.00
2 £500.00 28/10/2021 outstanding 52 £18.75
Miss W has had some problems repaying her two loans, and Morses has shown that as of 
July 2022, a total outstanding remains due of £844.   
Following Miss Ws complaint, Morses considered it and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this 
response, Miss Ws representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. She thought, given the results of the credit 
search, the income and expenditure information and the way that Miss W had paid loan 1 at 
the point loan 2 was granted, was in her view to say that Morses had made a reasonable 
decision to provide these loans.  
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss Ws representative didnt agree and asked for the case to be passed to an 
ombudsman. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Miss W could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Miss Ws income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss W. These factors include:
Miss W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss W.
Morses was required to establish whether Miss W could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss W was able to 
repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ws complaint.
Loan 1
Before the loan was approved, Morses took details of Miss Ws income and expenditure. 
She declared a weekly income of £520 with declared weekly outgoings of £414. Leaving 
around £106 per week in which to make her repayment of £15. This loan looked affordable 
to Morses based on the information Miss W had declared.  
In addition, before this loan was granted (and only this loan) Morses carried out a credit 
search and it has provided a copy of the results to the Financial Ombudsman.  
It is worth saying here that although Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Morses received may not entirely reflect information Miss W 
may be able to see in her own credit report. There could be for a number of reasons for this, 
such as Morses only asking for certain pieces of information. 
But what Morses cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it 
received  if necessary.  
Having looked at the credit check results, there was some adverse information such as a 
default recorded on Miss Ws credit file six months prior to loan 1 being approved. It also 
knew, that between 3 and 4 years before this loan was approved 4 further accounts had 
been defaulted. I dont think the defaults on their own wouldve been enough for Morses to have carried out 
further checks because most of the defaults were historic and so werent an indicator of 
Miss Ws likely ability to repay this loan. The one default recorded six months before could 
be a concern but there wasnt anything else, like recent missed payments which may have 
suggested in Morses view that Miss W was having current financial difficulties. 
Finally, Morses was aware of outstanding total debt of £5,062 with no history, according to 
the credit checks of Miss W using high cost short term credit. In addition, the credit results 
explained to Morses that the likely monthly repayment due to other creditors was around 
£145. 
Overall, I dont think there was enough in the credit check results to have either prompted 
Morses to have carried out further checks or to have led it to decline the loan application. 
Given it was early in the lending relationship I think it was reasonable for Morses to have 
relied on the information Miss W gave it and what it discovered from the credit check. These 
checks showed the loan was affordable, so I think a reasonable decision was made to 
provide it. I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint about this loan. 
Loan 2
This loan was taken out while loan 1 was being repaid, which led Miss Ws weekly 
commitment to Morses being £33.75. However, as part of the application process Morses 
included the commitment to loan 1 within Miss Ws outgoings. 
For this loan, the same sort of information was taken from Miss W. She again declared a 
weekly income of £520 with declared outgoings of £418. This left £102 per week in which to 
pay this loan commitment of £18.75 for loan 2.  Based on the information Miss W provided, 
Morses wouldve seen that she had enough disposable income each week to be able to 
afford the loan repayments. 
I have thought about the repayment problems that Miss W experienced in paying these 
loans, but up to when loan 2 was provided Miss W had made her payments towards loan 1 
on time. So, there wasnt anything as far as I can see that wouldve led Morses to carry out 
further checks based solely on the repayment history.
There also wasnt anything else that I can see that wouldve led Morses to have concluded 
that either of the loans werent affordable for Miss W or there was some other reason that 
may have led it to conclude the lending was no longer than sustainable.  
Considering a number of factors such as the time in debt, how loan 1 was being repaid as 
well as the income and expenditure information Ive concluded Morses carried out a 
proportionate check which showed it the loan was affordable. 
I acknowledge Miss W has had problems repaying her final two loans, and it does seem 
from the statement of account that at the very least an informal plan has been put in place to 
allow Miss W to make reduced payments. But Id remind Morses of its obligation to treat 
Miss W fairly and with forbearance  if necessary - while working towards repaying what is 
owed. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ws complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman