DRN-3079309
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent him losing money in what he 
says was an investment scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some key events here. 
In 2016 Mr H made two payments using his TSB Visa Debit card. The payments went to a 
merchant Ill refer to as O and were to fund an investment / trading account. Mr Hs trading 
account lost a lot of money and he concluded that O were operating a scam. 
In 2020 Mr H asked TSB to help him get his money back. TSB said that they were too late to 
raise a chargeback and Mr H complained. He also thinks TSB ought to have done more to 
protect him at the times the payments were made. 
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend it 
should be upheld. Mr H disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
In August 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to reach 
the same outcome as our Investigator but as my reasons are different, Im issuing this 
provisional decision to give everyone a further opportunity to comment.
I appreciate Mr H made payments from other banks / accounts to O in similar circumstances. 
But this complaint is solely about the two debit card payments made from his personal 
account in 2016.
Banks have various and long-standing obligations (many of which Mr H has correctly 
highlighted) to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But 
these are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, my first consideration must 
be whether O were operating a scam as Mr H alleges. 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing returns or 
losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods that were 
arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Ive carefully considered this, but Im not persuaded that at the relevant time O were 
operating a scam. I say this as at that time they were regulated by the Cyprus Securities and 
Exchange Commission (CySEC). It would be unusual for a scammer to comply with all the 
various requirements of becoming regulated. Ive considered that there is some evidence 
that O later (in 2017) had their authorisation suspended by CySEC. But this doesnt change 
my mind about whether they were operating a scam at the material time. 
And without there being a scam to protect against, there is no obligation for TSB to intervene 
in the payments Mr H instructed. They were under no obligation to prevent bad bargains nor 
to provide investment advice. 
Given I dont think TSB ought to have stopped the payments, Ive gone on to consider if they 
should have done more when Mr H made his scam allegation in 2020. The only option for 
recovery of debit card payments would be the chargeback scheme. 
But TSB can only make a chargeback under the scheme operators (VISA) rules. The 
chargeback rules are clear that the absolute maximum time allowed from the date of a 
transaction for a claim to be raised is 540 days. The second payment was on 20 July 2016 
and Mr H contacted TSB in April 2020 (over 1,300 days later). As the time limit had already 
passed (for both transactions) by the time TSB were informed, I dont think their decision not 
to pursue a chargeback was unreasonable. They can only act within the schemes rules and 
the time limits are clear.
 
Im sorry to hear Mr H lost money in this way. But as I dont think TSB ought to have 
prevented or could have done more to recover the loss, I cant fairly tell them to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
TSB responded and said they had nothing further to add. Mr H didnt respond to my 
provisional decision. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead 
with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman