DRN-3798567
The complaint
Mr B complains that Go Car Credit Limited irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr B acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from Go 
Car Credit. Mr B was required to make 48 monthly repayments of around £206. The total 
repayable under the agreement was around £9,900.
Mr B says that Go Car Credit didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Go Car Credit didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a creditworthiness assessment  
checking Mr Bs credit file and reviewing his personal circumstances - to make an initial 
lending decision it then undertook and income and expenditure assessment. Go Car Credit 
says its checks showed the agreement was affordable for Mr B.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Go Car Credit ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr B.
Go Car Credit didnt agree.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr Bs declared monthly income was £2,152. Go Car Credit carried out an automatic 
income verification which confirmed the amount received. I found this reasonable. I 
also noted that Mr Bs bank statements showed his average monthly income in the 
months leading up to the agreement to be higher than he had declared.
The credit check Go Car Credit completed showed that Mr B had a county court 
judgement and several defaults. I thought the number of defaults could have raised 
concerns but noted these were historic. Mr B was also making use of unsecured 
lending in the months leading up to the agreement. Given his credit history, I thought 
Go Car Credit should have been concerned that Mr B may be struggling financially. 
Against this background I considered whether Go Car Credit did enough to get a 
thorough understanding of Mr Bs financial circumstances before lending.
Go Car Credit did an income verification check and I found it reasonable it then relied 
on Mr Bs declared monthly income. A call took place with Mr B to go through his 
expenses. On this call Mr B confirmed items that appeared on his credit file. When 
asked about his historic defaults he said he didnt have any current debt 
management plans. He was asked about two unsecured loans which he said had 
been repaid and he also said a defaulted hire purchase and advance against income 
were no longer relevant. The adviser went through Mr Bs credit card repayments 
and Mr B agreed with these. The adviser then went through Mr Bs living costs and 
he confirmed the amounts he was paying for rent, utilities, insurance, transport, food 
and other regular expenses. He said that most of his costs were split with his partner. 
Having considered the questions asked on this call and noting the size of the 
repayments compared to Mr Bs income, I thought the checks carried out by Go Car 
Credit were proportionate. 
Just because Go Car Credit carried out proportionate checks, it didnt automatically 
mean it made a fair lending decision. I thought about what the evidence and 
information showed.
The information received by Go Car Credit through its checks showed Mr Bs income 
as £2,152 and his expenses at around £1,313. This left a disposable income of 
around £839. As the repayments under the agreement were around £206 each 
month, I found that the checks showed the agreement was affordable for Mr B.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision. He said that he didnt have a job at the time and 
the income he received was his final payment. He said that proper background checks 
werent carried out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Go Car Credit will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
I note Mr Bs response to my provisional decision but in this case, as I set out in my 
provisional decision, I think the checks carried out were reasonable. While I note Mr B says 
his employment had ceased I do not find that Go Car Credit would have been aware of this 
and based on the checks it carried out (and noting the information in Mr Bs bank 
statements) this suggested the lending was affordable. Therefore, while I understand this 
isnt the outcome Mr B wants, I do not find that I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman