DRN-3144450
The complaint
Miss S complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Trusttwo) lent her two loans 
she couldnt afford.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again
here.
Trusttwo lent Miss S two loans. The first was on 3 May 2019 for £1500 and the second was 
4 July 2019 for £2500. this is not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision about these loans. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator concluded that Trusttwo wasnt at fault for providing Miss S with Loan 1. 
She felt however that it should have carried out further checks for Loan 2 and if it had done 
so it wouldnt have given it to Miss S. So, she partially upheld Miss Ss complaint.
Trusttwo agreed with the investigators findings and offered to put things right. Miss S did not 
agree but hasnt provided reasons why she disagrees with the investigators findings. 
I have looked at Miss Ss complaint and agree with the investigators findings, for the same 
reasons. These being:
oTrusttwo says it asked Miss S about her income and it verified this with an online 
verification tool. It asked her about her rent and used Office of National Statistics 
(ONS) data to work out average living costs. It then carried out a credit search and 
calculated how much disposable income it thought Miss S would have. It assessed 
that Miss S would be able to afford the repayments for Loan 1. 
oThis was the first time Miss S had asked for a loan with Trusttwo and when I consider 
the checks it did carry out, the term of the loan and the amount along with the 
information it did gather, I think on balance, it carried out proportionate checks. I can 
also see with the information it gathered the loan repayments were comfortably 
affordable, so I agree with the investigator, I dont think it did anything wrong when it 
agreed to Loan 1. 
oTrusttwo said it carried out similar checks when it agreed to Loan 2. But this was 
Miss Ss second loan with it, and it was for more money this time than the first one. 
Miss S had only asked for her first loan 2 months previous and I think at this stage it 
ought to have carried out a full review of Miss Ss finances to assure itself that she 
would make the repayments for this second loan in a sustainable way. So, I dont 
think the checks it carried out for Loan 2 were proportionate.
oMiss S has provided copies of her bank statements from around the time of loan 2. 
Ive relied on this in the absence of information from Trusttwo at the time of the loan 
as I think her bank statements provide a clear picture about her actual financial
circumstances at the time. From what I can see, around the time Trusttwo granted 
Miss S this loan, she was repaying short-term loans. She was also regularly in her 
overdraft and at times went over the agreed limit. I agree with the investigator that 
her statements showed that she wouldnt have been able to afford the repayments 
from loan 2.
oSufficient checks by Trusttwo would have shown that Miss S couldnt afford this loan 
in a sustainable way. In the circumstances, Trusttwo lent to Miss S when it shouldnt 
have, and it needs to put things right.
o
Putting things right
Trusttwo agreed with the investigators findings and has already offered to put things right. I 
have seen that its offer is in line with our services approach.
While I think Trusttwo shouldnt have given Loan 2 to Miss S, I think it will be fair for her to 
repay the capital of £2,500 which she borrowed. So, to put things right, Trusttwo should:
add up all the payments made by Miss S, if it exceeds the capital amount of £2,500, 
then the overpayments plus 8% simple interest* should be paid to Miss S, remove 
any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file as a result of this loan.
If there is a balance left to repay the parties should discuss an affordable repayment 
plan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Trusttwo to deduct tax from the interest payment referred to 
above. Trusttwo must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for 
one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. I direct Everyday Lending Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman