DRN-3845767
The complaint
Mr R has complained about Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon. He has complained 
about sharp falls in the value of his Scottish Equitable pension. He thinks that Scottish 
Equitable has mismanaged his pension and has been misleading in how it has described the 
fund he invested in. Mr R also says Scottish Equitable didnt make him aware of falls in his 
fund value or send him timely valuations to allow him to effectively monitor investment 
performance.
What happened
Mr R holds a Group Personal Pension (GPP) with Scottish Equitable. Mr R became a 
member of the GPP through his former employer. Mr Rs GPP is invested into a single fund, 
the Scottish Equitable Retirement Fund.
In December 2017 Scottish Equitable wrote to Mr R to explain that they were moving 
pension statements online. The letter said that Mr R could view his statements online as well 
as his plan value and the performance of the Retirement Fund.
In November 2018 Mr R wrote to Scottish Equitable to say that he had decided to delay his 
retirement age and would therefore not be taking his pension benefits at the normal 
retirement age recorded under his GPP. 
In December 2018 Scottish Equitable again wrote to Mr R to say that they were moving 
pension statements online.
In December 2019, and again in December 2020, Scottish Equitable sent Mr R his annual 
statement. These statements gave Mr R the value of his plan and details of charges that had 
been applied over the year.
In April 2022 Mr R contacted Scottish Equitable to say that he hadnt received an annual 
statement since the one sent in December 2020. He was therefore missing his December 
2021 annual statement. In response Scottish Equitable sent Mr R an ad hoc statement later 
in April 2022 which gave Mr R the value of his GPP in April 2022. 
Towards the end of April 2022 Mr R contacted Scottish Equitable again. Mr R complained to 
Scottish Equitable about the fall in value of his pension and said that he was unhappy that 
Scottish Equitable hadnt contacted him to warn him about this fall. 
Scottish Equitable sent Mr R his December 2021 annual statement in May 2022. Scottish 
Equitable say that the statement was sent out late due to a delay in completing the annual 
scheme renewal. This statement gave Mr R the value of his GPP in December 2021. 
Scottish Equitable responded to Mr Rs complaint in May 2022. They didnt uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. They said that Mr Rs GPP was invested in a life styling process. This meant 
that running up to Mr Rs planned retirement year they moved Mr Rs investment into their 
Long Gilt and Cash fund, which was their Retirement Fund. Scottish Equitable have said that 
this was done with the aim of giving Mr R certainty about the level of annuity that he could 
buy when he retired.
Scottish Equitable also said that they dont write to their customers to tell them when a fund 
drops in value. They also said that they had written to Mr R to tell him that he could sign up 
for online access to his GPP statements, so that he could then monitor the value of his GPP 
online.
Mr R didnt accept Scottish Equitables response to his complaint, so he brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An Investigator within the Financial Ombudsman Service examined Mr Rs complaint. They 
concluded that Scottish Equitable hadnt acted unreasonably and didnt uphold Mr Rs 
complaint.
Mr R didnt accept the Investigators view. He said that the name of Scottish Equitables 
Retirement Fund is misleading and the Retirement Fund was being mismanaged. He asked 
for his complaint to be brought to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs GPP was invested into Scottish Equitables life style strategy. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that Scottish Equitable recommended this strategy to Mr R. I think it 
likely that this strategy was selected when Mr R originally joined the GPP through his former 
employer. 
I have seen a copy of the 31 March 2022 fact sheet for the Retirement Fund. In a section 
headed Fund objective the fact sheet states:
This fund is designed for investors who intend to buy an annuity when they retire. If you are 
in a lifestyle fund (non-BlackRock) and are within one year of your selected retirement date 
(SRD), you will automatically be switched into this fund. This fund aims to help preserve the 
size of pension you can buy through an annuity by investing 75% of the fund in long-dated 
UK government bonds (gilts) through our Long Gilt fund. The remaining 25% of the fund is 
invested in our Cash fund, so you can take the maximum tax-free cash sum youre entitled to 
when you retire, based on current legislation. You should be aware that, if you dont move 
your investment on your SRD, you will remain in this fund until you tell us what you want to 
do with your pension. 
I think that this information is saying that by investing in long-dated gilts, the funds aim is to 
preserve the size of pension that Mr R could buy through an annuity. This would be because 
if long-dated gilt yields rise, which resulted in a fall in the value of the fund, annuity rates 
should increase, which would then help to offset some of the fall in fund value.  I therefore dont think that the fact sheet is saying that the fund is aiming to guarantee that 
the investment value held in the fund will be preserved. Instead, the fact sheet is saying that 
by investing in long-dated gilts the fund is aiming to preserve the amount of pension that can 
be bought through an annuity.   
The fact sheet also gives information on historical fund performance and within this section 
says: Past performance is not a guide to future performance. The value of an investment 
can fall as well as rise and is not guaranteed. Investors could get back less than they 
originally invested.
I think that this is saying that returns from the fund are not guaranteed and that the value of 
Mr Rs investment can fall and that he may get back less that what he invested in the fund.
As a result of the life style strategy being applied to Mr Rs GPP, his investment was 
moved to the Retirement Fund in his planned retirement year, which was 2018. The 
Retirement Fund factsheet also says that Mr Rs GPP will remain invested in the Retirement 
Fund until Mr R told Scottish Equitable what he wanted to do with his pension.  
Mr R decided not to draw any of his Scottish Equitable pension in 2018. He has however 
continued to invest in the Retirement Fund, even though he didnt draw any of his pension, 
as he hasnt given Scottish Equitable any instructions to invest his GPP in any other fund. 
Scottish Equitable have said that they do not provide Mr R with any financial or investment 
advice. Instead, they administer Mr Rs pension. Therefore, I think that it would be Mr Rs 
responsibility to make investment decisions on his GPP. If Mr R decided that the Retirement 
Fund wasnt suitable for him, as he wasnt taking his pension in 2018, then he was able to 
instruct Scottish Equitable to change the fund that his GPP was invested in.  
Mr R has said that Scottish Equitable should have told him that the value of his pension was 
falling. But as Ive said above, Scottish Equitable were not Mr Rs financial advisers, they 
administer Mr Rs pension. I also dont think that it would be reasonable to expect Scottish 
Equitable to contact Mr R if ever his GPP fell in value. I think that the responsibility to 
monitor the value of the GPP was with Mr R.
Mr R didnt receive his December 2021 valuation on time. He therefore contacted Scottish 
Equitable in April 2022 and was sent an ad-hoc statement and was then sent the December 
2021 annual statement in May 2022. 
The annual statement sent to Mr R in May 2022 showed the value of Mr Rs GPP on 1 
December 2021, it didnt show the May 2022 value. This was because it was the December 
2021 annual statement.
The December 2021 annual statement showed the value of Mr Rs GPP on 1 December 
2020 as well as its value on 1 December 2021. Between these dates the value of Mr Rs 
GPP had fallen by approximately £850, which was approximately 0.65% of its value.
I therefore dont think that the delay in Scottish Equitable sending Mr R his December 2021 
annual statement resulted in him being unaware of any sharp fall in the value of his pension. 
Instead, I think that Mr R was made aware of this fall when he received the ad-hoc valuation 
sent to him in April 2022, which gave Mr R the value of his GPP on 19 April 2021 and 20 
April 2022. From this valuation Mr R could see that the value of his GPP had fallen from 
approximately £123,000 in April 2021 to approximately £109,000 in April 2022. 
Scottish Equitable had written to Mr R in December 2017 and December 2018 to say that they were moving annual statements online. The letters explained how Mr R could register 
for this online service. The letters also said that an online account would allow Mr R to:
view my annual statements, view my current and future plan value and contribution history, 
check my investment fund performance and change funds
I therefore think that if Mr R had decided to register for the online service, then he would 
have been able to monitor the value of his GPP and check the performance of the 
Retirement Fund. Mr R would also have been able to make fund changes, if he had wanted 
to move out of the Retirement Fund. Mr Rs GPP is still invested in the Retirement Fund 
though.
I therefore dont think that Scottish Equitable have acted unreasonably or unfairly. I also 
dont think that Mr R has been misled by the name or the objective of the Scottish Equitable 
Retirement Fund. 
I therefore dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint against Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Ian Barton
Ombudsman