DRN-3690745
The complaint
Ms M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) will not refund card payments she 
believed were going to a legitimate trading company which she says turned out to be a 
scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In December 2020, Ms M made several payments to a cryptocurrency exchange which I will 
refer to as C in this decision.  These payments were made using Ms Ms HSBCs debit card 
and amounted to approximately £2,900.  Ms M says that at the time she believed that the 
converted payments she made to C would then go to her investment platform account held 
by an investment trading company.  Ms M says that a third party she had met and trusted, 
ultimately, enticed her into doing everything mentioned. 
Ms M says she later discovered she had been scammed and lost all her money.  She 
contacted HSBC about this and asked it to recover her losses.  Initially, HSBC credited the 
funds to Ms Ms account temporarily.  However, after it had raised a chargeback against C 
which was defended  it reversed the refund.  Unhappy with this, Ms M raised a complaint 
which she referred to our Service.  Part of her complaint relates to customer service-related 
issues. 
After Ms M referred her complaint to this Service, HSBC confirmed its position had changed 
regarding the customer service element of Ms Ms complaint and offered £150 to reflect this.
One of our investigators considered Ms Ms complaint.  He thought that HSBC acted fairly in 
the way it dealt with Ms Ms chargeback claim.  He also thought the £150 HSBC offered was 
fair.
As Ms M did not accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding this complaint in part for the reasons I set out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
Chargeback is an entirely voluntary scheme, which means banks are under no formal 
obligation to raise a chargeback claim.  The scheme operator can ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them.  
However, such an arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed.  My role is to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (in this case, HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably in its decision not to pursue a 
chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (in this case, Ms M).
Ms M made the payments concerned to C, which is a cryptocurrency exchange.  The service 
they provided her was the purchase of cryptocurrency.  Because of this, if HSBC had 
continued with the chargeback claim to arbitration, I am persuaded it would have likely been 
unsuccessful.  I say this because the alleged scammer was not a party to the card 
payments, so Ms M could not have a valid claim against the legitimate merchants (C) she 
paid.  C provided their services as intended, which was to purchase cryptocurrency.  The 
subsequent transfer of this would not give rise to a valid chargeback claim. 
I do acknowledge Ms M feels this matter is about the person who she says scammed her, 
rather than C.  However, because of the way chargeback operates, I can only consider the 
recipient of Ms Ms payments and whether they provided the service concerned (addressed 
above).
It follows that I find HSBC acted fairly and reasonably by not continuing with the chargeback 
process on Ms Ms behalf, as C would have likely been able to defend the claim at arbitration 
successfully.
Ms M says HSBC could have done more to stop the payments leaving her account  
particularly given her account activity.  Having considered this, I am unable to agree.  I say 
this because I am not persuaded that HSBC ought to have intervened regarding the 
payments.  That is, I am not persuaded HSBC ought to have been altered to the payments, 
delayed them and asked questions to get to the bottom of what was going on.  I say this 
because I do not find the payments were remarkable in any way to be cause for concern.
Turning now to the customer service issues Ms M has raised.  
I have taken into account the trouble and upset Ms M says she experienced as a result of 
how HSBC dealt with her complaint  particularly relating to delays.  I have weighed this 
against the process I would have expected HSBC to follow in circumstances such as those 
in Ms Ms case.  In doing so, I find that HSBC could have done better in terms of 
communication and timeliness.  With this in mind, I am satisfied that the £150 HSBC has 
offered fairly reflects the trouble and upset it caused Ms M in this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  I 
therefore direct that HSBC UK Bank Plc:
Pay Ms M £150 compensation (if it has not done so already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman