DRN-3236416
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Scottish Widows Limited declined her critical illness claim. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2011 Mrs M took out life and critical cover with Scottish Widows. The policy was set up 
over a 15-year term and provided a sum assured of about £87,000.
In June 2021 Mrs M had a kidney removed as a tumour was identified following 
investigations shed undergone. Histology showed no evidence of malignancy. 
Mrs M called Scottish Widows to enquire about making a critical illness claim under her 
policy. She was advised that, as the tumour was benign, this wouldnt be covered as the 
tumour would need to be cancerous. It was also explained that some kidney conditions are 
covered  such as kidney failure or transplant  but Mrs M would need to be diagnosed with 
one of them to be able to claim. 
A complaint was raised but Scottish Widows position didnt change. They said for a claim to 
be considered under the cancer definition there must be evidence the cancer is malignant 
and invasive. And, from what Mrs M had explained to them, her tumour was benign (non-
malignant). Scottish Widows explained if Mrs M had a copy of the histology report and 
believed this to confirm the cancer was invasive and malignant, then she could provide a 
copy for them to look at it further. 
Mrs M referred her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked in to it but she 
thought Scottish Widows had acted fairly  and in line with the policy terms  by declining 
the claim. In short, our investigator said:
The policy terms make clear the criteria that must be met for a successful cancer 
claim. And, in Mrs Ms case, there wasnt any evidence of malignancy. This meant 
Mrs M's condition hadnt met the criteria for a cancer claim to be paid. 
She noted Mrs M thought her claim should be considered due to her kidney failing 
and there being no treatment available other than the surgery she had to remove it. 
Our investigator explained kidney failure is a condition covered under the policy but 
it requires both kidneys to fail, which isnt the case for Mrs M. 
Its not unreasonable for an insurer to inform a policyholder early on (based on the 
available information), without the need for a claim form to be completed, if its clear 
the definition(s) hasnt been met.
She acknowledged that Mrs M felt the listed conditions should be used as guide 
when considering a claim. But she explained that critical illness policies wont cover 
every eventuality, only specific listed conditions/operations. And she thought Scottish 
Widows had correctly applied the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy when 
considering the claim. 
A partial payment isnt possible under the policy.
Mrs M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
Before I go on to explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, Id like to note that a copy 
of the histology report has been shared with Scottish Widows since Mrs Ms complaint was 
referred to our service. Scottish Widows has confirmed their position remains the same. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly assure Mrs M that Ive given careful consideration to everything shes said in 
support of her complaint. I also dont underestimate the severity of her condition or the 
impact its had on her. But what I must consider here is whether Scottish Widows has acted 
fairly by declining the claim. I know this isnt the outcome Mrs M is hoping for but, for the 
reasons Ill explain, I think they have. 
The policy terms and conditions set out the contractual agreement between Mrs M and 
Scottish Widows. This includes when Scottish Widows is required to pay a claim. Mrs M 
agreed to these terms and conditions when she took out the policy and so, I think its fair for 
Scottish Widows to apply them when considering her claim. Ive therefore looked at whether 
theyve done so fairly.
At which point Id like to acknowledge Mrs Ms view that the terms and conditions should 
only be used as a guide. And that she feels Scottish Widows should treat customers as 
individuals when considering a claim. Although I understand Mrs Ms strength of feeling 
about this, as Ive explained, the terms and conditions set out the contractual obligations for 
both parties. So, while Scottish Widows should consider Mrs Ms personal circumstances, 
they should do so in line with the terms of the policy  and so not use it as a guide.
Scottish Widows told Mrs M that they couldnt pay the claim as she hadnt met the cancer 
definition. The cancer definition is:
Any malignant tumour positively diagnosed with histological confirmation and 
characterised by the uncontrolled growth of malignant cells and invasion of tissue. 
The term malignant tumour includes leukaemia, lymphoma and sarcoma. 
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
(i) All cancers which are histologically classified as any of the following:
pre-malignant;
non-invasive;
cancer in situ;
having either borderline malignancy; or
having low malignant potential.Mrs Ms tumour has been histologically confirmed to be non-malignant. Therefore, Mrs Ms 
condition doesnt meet the required definition for a claim to be paid.
I understand however that Mrs M isnt necessarily trying to claim under the cancer definition. 
But that she says she was investigated for possible malignancy and, after numerous tests 
and investigations, the decision was made to have the kidney removed. So, Mrs M feels her 
claim should be considered due to the fact her kidney failed and there was no treatment 
available other than surgery. And that this type of condition should be covered in some way, 
even by way of a partial payment. 
As Ive said, I dont doubt the severity of the surgery Mrs M underwent or that its affected 
her greatly. But insurance policies only cover specified events  as set out in the terms and 
conditions  and so dont cover every eventuality. Mrs Ms policy also doesnt allow for a 
partial payment to be made. So, for a claim to be paid, Mrs M must show shes suffered a 
critical illness as defined in the policy terms and conditions. As its been established, Mrs M 
doesnt meet the cancer definition. 
Scottish Widows explained to Mrs M that kidney failure and major organ transplant were 
other conditions covered under the policy but she would need to be diagnosed with one of 
these to be able to claim. It doesnt seem as though Scottish Widows has formally 
considered such a claim against either of these conditions. However, I think it would be 
helpful for me to note  as our investigator pointed out  that the kidney failure definition 
says both kidneys must fail. That doesnt appear to be case for Mrs M and Im not aware that 
shes undergone, or is awaiting, a transplant either. So, while Mrs M is free to contact 
Scottish Widows further about this if she feels she does meet the definitions, I dont think 
Scottish Widows acted unreasonably by not considering such a claim under these definitions 
based on the information available to them at the time. 
I realise Mrs M will be disappointed by this outcome but, for the above reasons, I think 
Scottish Widows has fairly declined her critical illness claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman