DRN-3501220
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc keep cancelling his debit card 
transactions with a specific supermarket.
What happened
Mr S has a bank account with NatWest. He says that they have cancelled his debit card 
transactions with a supermarket on several occasions. Mr S says that each time, there had 
been enough money in his account and online food shopping is not an unusual activity on 
his account. Mr S says that NatWest are not willing to comment on their fraud processes for 
security reasons. Mr S told NatWest it would be easier to confirm transactions in a text 
message or by confirming activity using online/mobile banking and he raised a complaint 
with NatWest.
NatWest did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said that the blocked transactions were 
stopped due to a security check that had been triggered on his account. They said they will 
restrict usage on a customers card or account if they believe that their customers accounts 
are at risk. NatWest said that they are aware that this can inconvenience their customers, so 
they do not take these steps lightly and they clearly signpost this in their terms and 
conditions.
NatWest explained that every time a customer uses their card or makes a payment, the 
transaction receives a risk score which is made up of various factors. NatWest said these 
factors are constantly updated to reflect the latest fraud intelligence and these fraud 
parameters change daily.
NatWest said that their fraud team does use strategies such as confirming transactions via a 
text message and by confirming transactions using online/mobile banking, however, on the 
occasions Mr S experienced security checks, due to the high fraud alerts triggered by their 
fraud detection system, they required security to be taken over the phone. Mr S brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said if NatWest were experiencing 
fraud trends with a particular retailer then transactions can flag, even if Mr S has used the 
retailer before. He also said that the parameters for fraud checks change regularly to keep 
up to date with fraud trends and intelligence NatWest may receive. Our investigator said he 
didnt feel any further technical investigation was needed into Mr Ss complaint as NatWest 
were not prepared to release their fraud process as it would compromise their security.
Mr S asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said the complaint is around NatWest having an issue with their fraud 
prevention process and cancelling transactions with a particular merchant. Mr S said that 
just because NatWest may or may not be experiencing a high level of fraud with the 
supermarket in question, this does not provide a reasonable suspicion of fraud for his 
transactions with that supermarket as the transactions were normal for him. He questioned 
how they would know the supermarket had a high level of fraud. Mr S said that NatWest 
should have investigated his complaint at a technical level and that NatWest will not 
investigate their fraud prevention process, which contains bugs, nor why the transactions 
were cancelled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr S that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how NatWest have investigated his 
complaint, such as whether they completed a technical investigation or not dont come under 
my powers to consider.
Id also like to explain to Mr S that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to 
run their security procedures (or to complete technical assessments of their fraud prevention 
systems). It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have 
the power to instruct NatWest to make changes to their policies and procedures, if 
necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for complaints about 
financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints and, on a case 
by case basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for example, make findings 
about whether a financial business has failed their customer.
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate 
payments that a customer wants to take place. This can cause distress and inconvenience 
to a customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about the attempted payment being a regular occurrence 
on his account. But Im not persuaded that this should mean that security checks should not 
take place in these instances. I say this because if someone other than Mr S used his card 
and attempted to use the card at similar retailers as Mr S did, I would still expect NatWest to 
protect Mr Ss account, even if there was history of his card being used at certain retailers. 
So I dont find it unreasonable for NatWest to have security controls in place to manage their 
obligations and to fulfil their duties to their customers to ensure each payment made is 
genuinely made by their customers themselves.
Ive looked at whether NatWest have acted in line with their terms and conditions here. Im 
satisfied that they have, and Ill explain why. Their terms and conditions, which Mr S would 
have agreed to upon opening his account, shows that they can stop payments being made 
from a customers account if they reasonably believe its appropriate to protect a customers 
account. Although I fully appreciate that Mr S says that NatWest should not reasonably have 
had grounds to suspect fraud based on his account history. And he genuinely wanted to 
make the transactions and he was not a victim of fraud or a scam, NatWest have confirmed 
in their final response letter to Mr S that there are various factors which contribute to a risk 
score which could trigger their fraud prevention systems, so his account history and how he 
used his card previously would not be the only factors NatWest would consider as part of 
their fraud prevention measures. 
NatWest would be well placed to know how many of their customers have been affected by 
fraud and scams in this area. And fraud and scam trends can be fluid, in the sense that they 
are highly likely to change over time. So what may have been deemed as a lower risk previously can become more of a risk over time and vice versa. And this data may give 
grounds to NatWest reasonably believing Mr Ss security had been compromised on the 
occasions they restricted the payment. Im persuaded this is evidenced as Mr S had 
previously used his card online with the supermarket several times without the transaction 
being flagged, then it was flagged several times, then Mr S confirmed to our investigator that 
he had been able to use his card with the retailer again, without the payment being 
restricted, until he experienced the transactions being flagged again.  
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr S has that NatWest has bugs in their system. As Mr 
S is aware, Im unable to complete a technical investigation into their fraud prevention 
systems. But I asked NatWest if there were any known bugs in their system regarding issues 
that Mr S was experiencing. NatWest told me they were confident that there were no issues 
as they would see a large number of complaints about consistently flagged genuine 
transactions if this was the case. They also confirmed that their system is working as it was 
designed. NatWest added that in the instances Mr S payments were restricted, that the 
system suspected Mr Ss card was being used fraudulently and their fraud system does not 
just consider Mr Ss account activity, but also considers wider fraud trends. 
So Im persuaded that Mr Ss payments were restricted for a legitimate reason, rather than 
the result of a mistake or errors with their system. I must make it clear that NatWest have not 
accused Mr S of being part of any fraud or scam. The account terms and condition allow 
NatWest to act when they have security concerns, so Im not persuaded they were unfair to 
take the actions that they did, even though this unfortunately led to Mr S being 
inconvenienced. So it follows I dont require NatWest to do anything else.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman