DRN-3371876
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wrongfully restricted payments being 
made to an account he held with a third-party company without giving sufficient notice.
What happened
Mr R is a customer of Santander. He also holds an account with a third-party company which 
buys, trades and holds cryptocurrencies. He used his Santander account to make payments 
to the third-party company. Mr R says the third-party company also holds non-
cryptocurrency investments which he could purchase.
In May 2021, Santander placed a stop on Mr Rs card transactions to the third-party 
company. Mr R contacted Santander to remove the block, and it was lifted. Mr R says as a 
result of the temporary block, he missed out on the cheaper price he could have paid if he 
was able to purchase the product he wanted at the time.
Santander acknowledged Mr Rs experience could have been better when he called them, 
and so credited him with £75 into his account for the inconvenience caused.
In June 2021, further payments Mr R attempted to make to the third-party company were 
stopped.
Santander say that they have automated systems in place to protect customers from fraud 
and that this is routine procedure to protect both Mr Rs funds and the bank. They also say 
that they would not look to cover any losses Mr R says he incurred from not being able to 
make a payment when he wanted to. They say this is because investments are not 
guaranteed to provide a profit.
Santander again stopped payments to the third-party company, following a warning given by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to consumers. Mr R believes the immediate 
restriction of payments to be unreasonable and believes Santander hasnt acted in 
accordance with its own procedures. 
Mr R says he is still unable to make payments to the third-party company using his 
Santander account.
Mr R complained to Santander. Santander responded saying their priority is to protect its 
customers from losing money, including those who may consider themselves as being 
knowledgeable on the subject of cryptocurrency. They say they stopped payments to the 
third-party company to help protect its customers from fraud, following the FCAs warning to 
consumers. They say they are obligated to have processes and controls in place to prevent 
fraud and financial crime and they believe their decision is in line with all applicable law and 
regulation that they must adhere to.
Mr R, unhappy with Santanders response brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator found that Santander didnt need to do anything further and the £75 they 
offered was a fair way to resolve the matter. She explained that she carefully considered 
whether Santander had followed their terms and conditions regarding stopping payments 
and she found that they had.
Mr R disagreed and requested his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. And so it 
has been passed to me to decide on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
There are aspects of Mr Rs complaint I havent commented on  and thats deliberate. What 
follows are my comments on what I believe to be the main points to consider to resolve this 
complaint in a fair way.
Ive reviewed Santanders general terms and conditions which is available on their website. 
Ive noted it says that they can refuse any payment instruction if they reasonably suspect it 
relates to fraud or any other criminal act. Ive also noted they explain that they can make 
changes to their terms by taking into account any actual, or reasonably expected, change in 
law or regulation (including any decision by a regulator or similar body).
Santander initially stopped some payments Mr R wished to make to the third-party company. 
Later, once Mr R contacted Santander, the payments were allowed. Santander explained to 
Mr R that they have automated systems in place to protect customers from fraud and that 
this is routine procedure to protect both his funds and the bank. They say these systems are 
there all the time and will stop payments regardless of who they are to, the amount or where 
they are going.
Santander also acknowledged Mr Rs experience could have been better when he called 
them. They say they tried to refer the call through to a different department, but it got 
disconnected. So, they credited Mr R with £75 into his account.
I dont think Santanders response to be unreasonable here. They explained to Mr R why 
certain transactions may get declined and I cant see anything to suggest Santander has 
acted outside of its terms. They also explained why they wouldnt look to cover the difference 
Mr R says he incurred from not being able to make the payment when he wanted to. I think 
their response was reasonable as there is no guarantee any payment towards an investment 
will turn to a profit. And considering the inconvenience caused to Mr R when he complained 
and the time it took them to acknowledge their mistake on the phone, I think Santanders 
offer was fair for the service Mr R received.
Some time later, Santander restricted all payments to the third-party company, following a 
warning given by the FCA to consumers.
Santander say the decision to stop payments to the third-party company was to help protect 
their customers from fraud. They say this step was taken to ensure they are doing everything 
they can to protect their customers and help keep their money safe. They say the FCA 
warned of the high risks associated with investment in crypto assets, and that money held in 
customers crypto wallets is unlikely to be protected by the Financial Ombudsman Service 
and Financial Services Compensation Scheme if something goes wrong. They also say they 
had seen large increases in fraudulent activity in cryptocurrency in recent months.Santander have a duty to protect their customers and their money from fraudulent and 
criminal activity. Stopping payments to the third-party company was a commercial decision 
made by Santander, following an FCA announcement. I can see from the announcement the 
FCA published, it is alongside information about investing in cryptocurrency more generally 
and the risks involved with it.
Having considered what Santander has said, I dont think their responses and actions they 
took to be unreasonable. I appreciate Mr Rs frustration with having payments stopped, with 
at times not receiving notifications from Santander. But, ultimately, given these measures 
were taken to protect Mr R from making a payment involving a possible fraudulent activity, I 
think Santanders actions were fair. It is up to a business to make a commercial decision 
about the risks it is willing to take and our service doesnt have the power to change these. 
But Im satisfied that Santander has acted fairly and reasonably, in line with its terms and 
conditions. 
Santander offered £75 for the customer service issues Mr R experienced when he called 
them about the blocked earlier payments. I think this is fair in the circumstances. In this 
instance I wont be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman