DRN-2304927
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M say they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
with a joint-mortgage they took out in 1994. They say they never agreed to the cover and 
didnt even know it existed on their mortgage account until checking many years later.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mrs and Mr M its unlikely 
to be upheld. Mrs and Mr M disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
I can see that Mrs and Mr M feel very strongly that Nationwide added the PPI to their 
mortgage without their consent. And I can understand they genuinely believe that to be the 
case. Nevertheless, the sale of the mortgage and PPI took place some 26 years ago and 
whilst I understand their points of complaint, Im going to take into account that the passage 
of time is very relevant to what Mrs and Mr M can remember now.
I say this because neither they nor Nationwide have retained much of the mortgage sale 
documentation, although I do have access to some of Nationwides computerised records. 
Thats not unusual, or indeed unreasonable, given how long ago were talking about. 
However, Ive seen quite a few similar allegations to this and so I understand quite a bit 
about the procedures and types of documents that were typically used in the 1990s by 
Nationwide. Essentially however, there simply isnt a lot of hard evidence left to refer to in 
this case and so Ive also used my considerable experience of PPI to think about what is 
more likely to have happened.
The main allegation here is that the PPI was added without consent and that Mrs and Mr M 
knew absolutely nothing about it. Im afraid I consider that scenario quite unlikely for a 
number of reasons. 
Firstly, I see that only Mr M was covered by the PPI even though this was a joint-mortgage. 
To me, this is more reflective of there being a discussion, at the point of sale, about having 
mortgage protection. I think they decided that covering Mr M fitted with their requirements.
I also note the PPI policy was cancelled in November 1997. I cant be sure of the 
circumstances of this happening, but as Mrs and Mr Ms central allegation is that 
Nationwide covertly added the cover without asking them, I dont think it would then have 
unilaterally cancelled it. I think its more likely the cancellation stemmed from Mrs and Mr M 
determining that they no longer wanted or needed this type of protection and they wanted to 
save on the monthly premiums. And so, this obviously means that cancelling the PPI would 
mean them knowing they had a policy to cancel in the first place.
Thirdly, I note that at the time Nationwide was probably using a third-party insurer for these 
policies. Theres no dispute the PPI was sold here, so those agreeing to have such cover 
would have therefore received documentation from the insurer, such as the policy schedule 
and the PPI rules about making a claim. I consider it improbable that Mrs and Mr M would 
have received absolutely nothing at all, although I accept that they may honestly not 
remember any of this now  even the cancellation is from 23 years ago.
Finally, I mentioned what I know usually happened with these types of sales. Nationwide 
confirms that certain post-sale documentation would have flowed from a PPI sale like this  
examples include references to the PPI charges on the annual mortgage statement. 
Nationwide sent me examples from the time period in question.
I think all these things, taken collectively, show its much more likely that Mrs and Mr M 
knew they had this type of cover with their mortgage in the 1990s. The circumstances show 
me that the optional nature would have probably been clear to them and they bought the 
PPI because it was something they wanted to have at the time.
Having found that their agreement was most likely obtained, I looked at the other features 
of this case. Mrs and Mr M say the PPI wasnt needed. However, theres no evidence this 
was an advised sale and my experience of the Nationwide PPI sales like this from the 
1990s is that these were non-advised. This means it was Mrs and Mr M themselves to 
decide whether they wanted the policy, based on them being given information about it. 
Nationwide didnt need to ensure the policy was suitable  although this, in my view, is a 
moot point, since I think it was suitable anyway.
Mr M appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. The price seems to me to be comparable 
with similar policies from around that time period and Ive seen nothing that suggests it 
wasnt affordable for them. I also note that in the event of a successful claim, the cover was 
payable for up to 24 months, which was for relatively long when benchmarked against 
some other types of similar PPI cover. This would have been in addition to  and much 
longer than - any other means Mr M already had in place at the time. Mr M probably did 
have relatively generous sickness protection with his then-job, but the policy was still of use 
for the above reasons and their mortgage was a significant financial commitment.
In summary, I do accept that all this will be disappointing for Mrs and Mr M and I certainly 
dont doubt they believe they were mis-sold the cover. But other than them saying so, there 
simply isnt any evidence in support of this. 
As Ive described, the probable circumstances make it much more likely they would have 
needed to agree to the cover and would have been aware of its existence. I dont think its 
plausible they knew nothing about the policy.
Ive considered everything theyve told us with great care, including the information relating 
to Mr Ms employment. There is isnt enough evidence to uphold this complaint. My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ms complaint. 
I dont direct Nationwide Building Society to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman