DRN-3275063
The complaint
Mr S complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided him with unaffordable lending.
What happened
AvantCredit provided a loan to Mr S as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableLoan status
23/08/2018 £4,750 24 months £295.02 £7,080.61. outstanding
When Mr S complained to AvantCredit it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that 
AvantCredit shouldnt have provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained why he was 
recommending that the complaint should be upheld and he set out directions indicating what 
AvantCredit should do to put things right. 
AvantCredit disagreed. It mainly said that it carried out a detailed affordability assessment 
which included asking Mr S about his monthly expenses and factoring in the cost of his 
credit commitments seen on his credit report. AvantCredit said Mr S had ample disposable 
income to be able to afford the loan repayments for this loan. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Ss complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
I have reviewed the information AvantCredit gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. 
Alongside asking Mr S what he spent each month on regular outgoings and servicing his 
existing credit commitments, AvantCredit also carried out its own credit checks. AvantCredit 
said it saw a recent bank statement to verify Mr Ss income and I can see it relied on the net 
monthly income figure it saw in its credit checks.  
Like our adjudicator, I think AvantCredit should have been concerned to see that when Mr S 
applied for this loan the credit checks it obtained showed that he had 3 maxed out credit 
cards which had been stuck at or over the limit for the last few months. It was also apparent 
that Mr S had been relying on his credit cards for cash advances, which is a particularly 
expensive way to obtain spending money. And he had taken out a number of payday loans 
in the run up this loan.
This seems to be significantly at odds with the information AvantCredit had gathered 
suggesting that Mr S had ample spare cash each month. And I think AvantCredit needed to 
do more to ensure it had a proper understanding of Mr Ss overall financial situation to be 
satisfied he could afford the loan
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Bank statements provided by Mr S are a useful guide to understanding his overall financial 
situation at the time. These show his average income was around £3,500 in the months 
leading up to this loan  so less than the £3,900 monthly figure AvantCredit had recorded.
The bank statements also show that Mr S was paying significantly more towards credit 
commitments than AvantCredit understood based just on the credit report it had obtained. It 
was evident that Mr S was paying a significant proportion of his monthly income to service 
his existing credit commitments. He was also paying significant sums out of his account 
each month - Mr S told us this money was spent on gambling. All in all, Mr Ss monthly 
outgoings were more than his monthly income from wages  so this alone suggests that this 
loan would have been unaffordable. And despite boosting the funds in his account with 
multiple other loans, a proportionate check would likely have revealed to AvantCredit that 
Mr S was making no inroads into his four figure overdraft and reliant on new borrowing to 
meet his spending needs.
I think thats borne out by the fact that Mr S had taken out around 15 other loans in the 
months leading up to him applying for this loan. 
To sum up, I think all the indications were that Mr S was over-reliant on credit he couldnt 
afford and he needed to keep on borrowing in order to be able to meet his existing credit 
commitments. And I believe that if AvantCredit had done a proportionate check it ought 
reasonably to have been aware that taking further, costly lending was likely to be detrimental 
to Mr S and recognised that it shouldnt have provided this loan. 
So, I am upholding Mr Ss complaint that he should not have been given the loan. Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the capital amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not 
have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr S shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed.
If AvantCredit sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, AvantCredit should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr S made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then AvantCredit should try and arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr S 
bearing in mind its obligation to treat Mr S sympathetically and fairly if he still 
needs further time to pay
    whilst its fair that Mr Ss credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So AvantCredit should remove any 
negative information recorded on Mr Ss credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as AvantCredit to take 
the steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman