DRN-3043474
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that they were misled into buying two holiday club memberships, 
which never provided the benefits they were promised. Because the purchases were 
financed by loans from GE Money Home Lending Limited, they say that it is liable to them in 
the same way as the sellers. 
What happened
In February and November 2007 Mr and Mrs W bought two holiday club memberships from 
a company, C, based in Spain. To finance the purchases, Mr and Mrs W took out loans with 
GE Money; C acted as the intermediary. 
In August 2018 and January 2019 Mr and Mrs W complained to GE Money about the second 
and first sale respectively. They said they had been misled about the benefits and that they 
had not received what they paid for. GE Money was, they said, liable under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in the same way as the seller.  
GE Money said that, as it had not paid C, section 75 did not apply and it therefore had no 
liability to Mr and Mrs W. As well as saying that section 75 did not apply, it said too that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service could not consider a complaint about the first loan, because it 
was made before the service had any power to consider complaints about consumer credit. 
Further, it said that both complaints had been brought outside the relevant time limits. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He thought that this service did 
have power to consider the complaint but that it was reasonable of GE Money to take court 
time limits into account and decline to investigate further. Mr and Mrs W did not accept the 
investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service acquired its general powers to consider complaints 
about consumer credit on 6 April 2007. Before that, we could only consider such complaints 
if, for example, the provision of credit was ancillary to another activity, such as providing 
banking services. As GE Money has identified, the first loan was made before 6 April 2007. 
However, the event giving rise to the complaint here was not, in my view, the making of the 
loan itself. Rather, it was the response of GE Money to the claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. The complaint is, in short, that GE Money did not meet the claim; that 
did not happen until early 2019. 
Our own rules say that we cannot consider a complaint unless it is referred to us within six 
years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which the 
complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had cause for complaint. As I 
have indicated, I think the complaint here is about GE Moneys responses to the section 75 
claims, not about the underlying breaches of contract and misrepresentations alleged by Mr 
and Mrs W. Mr and Mrs W referred that complaint to this service well within six years of 
receiving GE Moneys responses. 
I have therefore considered GE Moneys responses to the claims.
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
It is clear in this case that the loans financed the purchase of the club memberships. 
However, Mr and Mrs Ws contracts appear to have been with C. GE Moneys records 
indicate that it made payment to F, a company which provides services to a number of 
timeshare and holiday club providers. It seems likely therefore that any pre-existing 
arrangements GE Money had were with F, not C. If that is the case, section 75 would not 
apply. 
Even where payment is made to someone other than the supplier, section 75 can still apply 
where the supplier and the payee are associates, as set out in section 184 of the Act. 
Broadly speaking, a company is an associate of another if they are under the same control. I 
am not aware of any such link between C and F.
I have nevertheless considered what the position would be if C and F are in fact linked in the 
way I have described. In particular, I have considered the likely effect of the Limitation Act 
1980 on Mr and Mrs Ws claims for breach of contract and for misrepresentation against C. 
In very simple terms, a claim for breach of contract arises where one party to a contract does 
not do what they have agreed to do. Mr and Mrs W have made unspecified claims that C did 
not provide anything under the holiday club membership. A misrepresentation is, in very 
broad terms, a statement of fact which is untrue and which induces someone into a contract. 
Mr and Mrs W say that C told them there would never be a problem with the availability of 
accommodation and that maintenance fees would not increase by more than the annual rate 
of inflation. 
Under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation or 
breach of contract cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any misrepresentation in this case would have been made before 
the sales of the holiday club memberships  that is, in or around February and October 
2007. And Mr and Mrs W say that C failed virtually from the outset to provide the services it 
had agreed to provide. On the face of it, therefore, their claims against C arose many years 
before they complained to GE Money or referred their complaint to this service.
In the circumstances, I think it is most unlikely that any court claim which Mr and Mrs W 
might bring against C or against GE Money would succeed. A court is likely to conclude that 
it was brought outside the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act. In my view, therefore, GE 
Moneys response to the section 75 claims was reasonable. In saying that, I stress that it is 
not for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs W have a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against C. Nor is it for me to decide whether any such claim might be 
outside the relevant time limits in the Limitation Act. Those are matters, if at all, for a court. 
My conclusion is only that, given the likely outcome in court, GE Moneys response was a 
fair one.  My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require GE Money Home Lending 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman