DRN-3368493
The complaint
Miss S complains that PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay Solutions (Monese) 
closed her bank account and took around two months to transfer her money to another 
account. 
What happened
Miss S had an account with Monese. On 24 June 2021 Monese sent Miss S and email to 
say it had taken the decision to close her account. On 5 August 2021 Miss S provided bank 
details for the £275 that was in her account to be transferred.
After Miss S contacted Monese again, it transferred her funds on 25 October 2021. Miss S 
complained and Monese offered her £25 for the inconvenience caused along with £4.59 of 
interest. 
Miss S referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
recommended Monese increase the settlement by £75 to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Monese didnt agree, so Miss S complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss S was shocked to find her account was closed. But the terms and 
conditions, which have already been set out in full by the investigator, set out the 
circumstances under which Monese can close an account. Im satisfied Monese terms 
meant it could take the decision to close Miss S account. I havent been persuaded that 
Monese treated Miss S unfairly by taking that decision. 
It took over two months for Monese to transfer Miss S funds. I understand why Monese says 
this wasnt Miss S main account and the absence of that money didnt impact her. But I think 
its fair to note that not only was there a delay, but it took chasing from Miss S to obtain her 
money. I also think its reasonable to take the length of the delay into account. Im satisfied 
Miss D did experience some inconvenience that isnt reflected in an award of £25. 
In my view, £100 more fairly reflects the impact of the delay and issues raised on Miss S. As 
a result, Im going to uphold Miss S complaint and tell Monese to increase the award for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to a total of £100. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss S complaint and direct PrePay Technologies Limited  
trading as Prepay Solutions to pay Miss S a total of £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused (less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman