DRN-2341188
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs V are unhappy with the way Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) handled their claim 
for an escape of water.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs V had home insurance covering buildings and contents with Zurich. The policy 
was in joint names but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr H throughout my decision.
Mr H suffered an escape of water from his bathroom which caused extensive damage to the 
bathroom, kitchen and living room. He made a claim under his policy which Zurich accepted. 
But Mr H was unhappy with the delays, pressure to accept a cash settlement, and the 
compensation Zurich offered.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr H will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, Mr H asked that I consider his other complaint, raised with us, about Zurich. Ive 
looked briefly at the complaint, which I understand is about the cash settlement Zurich paid 
him after he brought this complaint. I must make it clear that my decision is only about the 
issues which Mr H complained about and Zurich addressed in its final response letter to him 
of March 2020. I have not taken into consideration the new complaint issues, which will be 
addressed separately by Zurich in the first instance. So, it should be noted that any 
compensation awarded here doesnt reflect any inconvenience Mr H may have experienced 
beyond the date of that letter, nor does it address any part of his complaint about the cash 
settlement it has now made.
Zurich accepts that it didnt handle Mr Hs claim as well as it shouldve done. In recognition 
of that, and by way of apology, it offered Mr H £300, but he didnt think that was enough. 
After our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint, Zurich increased its offer of 
compensation by a further £2000, which our investigator thought was fair. But Mr H felt that it 
still wasnt enough to compensate him and his family for the distress and inconvenience.
So, Ive thought carefully about the delays, mistakes and likely impact on Mr H to decide 
whether Zurichs compensation offer is fair. Ive listed some of the key points here:
Zurichs contractor missed items from the scope of work on more than one occasion, 
causing Mr H to lose faith in its ability to appropriately assess the work needed and 
complete the repairs fully.
Mr H felt he was being pressured to accept a cash settlement far below the quote 
Zurich had asked him to get for the repairs. I can understand why Mr H would have 
doubts about Zurichs reasons for doing so, adding to his existing concerns about the 
claim.
It was almost a year from the date of the leak before Zurich appointed a loss 
adjuster. Given the concerns over the scope of work and low cash settlement offers, 
and that Zurichs offer didnt come close to matching Mr Hs independent 
assessment, I wouldve expected Zurich to appoint a loss adjuster much sooner.
Zurich offered a cash settlement even though its appointed loss adjuster said a cash 
settlement wasnt appropriate in the circumstances. I can understand why Mr H 
would be concerned that Zurich wasnt going to fully indemnify him for his loss.
While its clear Zurich made mistakes, I dont think its wholly responsible for everything that 
contributed to Mr Hs loss, and it responded appropriately in its offer to pay for his 
independent repair assessment and disturbance allowance. But I can see Mr H wasnt able 
to accept some earlier appointments or make progress with the claim as quickly as he 
mightve liked, because of hospital trips leading up to and after the birth of his child. 
The timeline of events isnt particularly clear, and Mr H hasnt clarified this for me, but the 
water damage got worse during the delays. It seems the leak wasnt repaired until some 
months later, and its possible further water damage was due to continued use of the 
bathroom. But this hasnt been confirmed.
And, although Mr H felt Zurichs cash offer wasnt enough to make good the damage, he 
refused its offer to complete the repair. I accept that hed lost faith in the contractor because 
of the mistakes made scoping the work, but I think some normality couldve been restored 
sooner had he given Zurich that opportunity.
That said, I can understand that Mr H wouldve been expecting Zurich to handle his claim 
promptly and fairly without causing him additional inconvenience. Given his family 
circumstances at the time of the leak, especially, I can appreciate that it wouldve been an 
additional upset and frustration that couldve been avoided. 
Overall, I think Zurich shouldve handled Mr Hs claim better than it did and I think 
compensation is warranted. I know Mr H calculated Zurichs offer as £4 per day for the 
disruption, which he thinks is nowhere near enough. But my decision isnt based on a daily 
rate  its based on the circumstances as a whole. Zurich paid for Mr Hs independent 
damage assessment and disturbance allowance while he and his family lived with relatives 
and, as I mentioned earlier, the final cash settlement for the repairs is a separate issue. So, 
taking into consideration the inconvenience caused and the delays handling Mr Hs claim, I 
think Zurichs offer of £2300 by way of apology is fair and reasonable and I wont be asking it 
to increase its offer.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman