DRN-2301266
The complaint
Mr M complains about harassment from Lowell Financial Ltd (Lowell) in relation to a debt it 
acquired in his name. 
What happened
On 25 February 2019 Lowell purchased Mr Ms debt of £147.02 from another business. The 
original debt related to an unpaid catalogue account. On 11 March 2019 Lowell and the 
original lender sent Mr M a Notice of Assignment confirming the change in ownership. 
Lowell wrote to Mr M and requested he make contact to discuss repayment of the debt. On 
21 June 2019 a direct debit was set up via Lowells website for £20 a month. Lowell received 
a £20 payment on 1 August 2019 and another on 1 September 2019 but they were later 
claimed back via a direct debit indemnity claim. Other direct debits were returned unpaid. In 
March, April and May 2020 Mr M made payments of £1 towards the debt. 
Mr M asked Lowell to send him a copy of the original credit agreement but it wasnt able to 
obtain one. 
Mr M complained and Lowell responded on 14 February 2020. Lowell said it retained the 
right to contact Mr M about the outstanding balance he owed. Mr M referred his complaint to 
our service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator didnt agree that Lowell 
had acted unfairly by contacted Mr M for repayment of the debt or that it had harassed him. 
Mr M asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M feels Lowells contact is upsetting, but I havent found that its requests for 
repayment have been unreasonable. Lowell and the original lender both wrote to Mr M in 
March 2019 to confirm the debt had been acquired. The original lender explained Lowell 
would be responsible for collecting the outstanding balance going forward. 
Mr M says Lowell has harassed him but I havent found the level of contact was 
unreasonable. Lowell wrote to Mr M about the outstanding balance on several occasions but 
I think that reflects its desire to make contact and arrange repayment of the debt. I can also 
see that Lowell only took the step of contacting Mr M by phone after a direct debit payment 
plan hed set up was cancelled. And it removed Mr Ms phone number from its systems 
when he asked it to. Whilst I can see Mr M finds the contact upsetting, Im satisfied Lowell 
has a legitimate reason to contact him and I havent found evidence of harassment. 
I havent found that Lowell has harassed Mr M and Im satisfied its requests for repayment 
were reasonable.  As Im satisfied Lowell has dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly, Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman