DRN-2822707
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt offer cover for breakdown because 
his policy wasnt renewed.
What happened
Mr S previously held a breakdown policy with UKI. The original policy period was between 
7 September 2019 and 7 September 2020. Mr S says UKI sent him a copy of a welcome 
letter dated 9 September 2020, as well as a policy booklet, which he thought were renewal 
documents. Mr S believed hed renewed his policy online. But, when Mr S called UKI on 
4 October 2020 due to a breakdown, UKI said he wasnt covered.
UKI says it wrote to Mr S in August 2020 that it wasnt willing to renew the breakdown cover 
due to the number of callouts Mr S had made in the past. UKI said there was no limit in the 
number of callouts Mr S could have under the policy, as long as they werent repeat callouts 
for the same problem. But UKI thought several of the callouts were for the same problem. 
So, it decided not to offer Mr S a renewal.
UKI also says theres no record of Mr S renewing the policy  for example, by getting a 
quote online. UKI says that had Mr S tried to renew his policy online, he wouldnt have been 
able to as a stop had been placed on this. UKI says the renewal letter Mr S has was sent to 
him when he made a Subject Access Request, but unfortunately it related to his previous 
policy. The renewal documents referred to the period of cover to be from 2019 until 2020  
so, the previous policy period.
UKI says Mr S bought a new breakdown policy on 4 October 2020 which started the next 
day. As the callout in question happened on 4 October 2020  before the policy was live  
there was no cover in place at the time.
Mr S says it would be clear to any reasonable person that the documents he had were 
renewal documents, and that he was covered. Mr S wants UKI to cover the costs he incurred 
to other parties to have his car recovered, as well as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She hadnt seen enough to say that Mr S did 
renew his breakdown policy, and she didnt think the renewal letter Mr S got through a 
Subject Access Request was enough to say he was covered. Our investigator also didnt 
think UKI had done anything wrong when it didnt offer Mr S a renewal due to the number of 
similar callouts Mr S made during the previous policy year.
Mr S didnt agree with our investigators findings. He says she misunderstood the complaint. 
Mr S forwarded an earlier email to us in which he summarised his complaint as follows:
My complaint concerns the failure of [UKI] to offer cover when I broke down, due to 
paperwork issued which I genuinely believed confirmed I was covered. The number of 
callouts issue is a side issue.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I can see that Mr S has asked for more time to send further information before I issue my 
decision. But having considered everything, Im satisfied I have enough information to reach 
a decision thats fair and reasonable  as Im required to do. And Im satisfied Mr S has had 
the opportunity to make representations before and after the investigator issued her view on 
the complaint. So, Im issuing my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI says Mr S previous breakdown cover wasnt renewed, and his new policy didnt start 
until 5 October 2020  which was after the breakdown in question. The only documentary 
evidence Ive seen to suggest that Mr S had a policy at the time of the event is the renewal 
letter Mr S has sent a copy of both to us and UKI.
UKI has explained this letter was sent as part of a Subject Access Request to Mr S, but the 
policy wasnt actually renewed. I can also see that the period of cover in this letter refers to 
a past policy period  between 2019 and 2020.
I dont think the renewal letter dated 9 September 2020 is enough to show that Mr S held 
breakdown cover with UKI on 4 October 2020. Im persuaded by UKIs argument that Mr S 
received this as part of a Subject Access Request, and it related to the previous policy 
period. So, I dont think that UKI did anything wrong by not covering Mr S breakdown on that 
day.
I accept that Mr S genuinely thought he was covered. But I dont think this means UKI needs 
to now pay his claim. This is because theres no evidence of Mr S renewing the policy, so I 
dont think UKI was on risk at the time.
Ive also thought about UKIs decision not to offer a renewal due to the number of callouts 
Mr S made, despite the policy offering to have no limit on these. But I can see that the policy 
terms state that this is offered as long as they werent repeat callouts for the same problem.
UKI has shown that Mr S made eight callouts during the 2019 to 2020 policy year. Three of 
these were for battery fault, and three were for starter motor. Considering these, and the 
policy terms, I dont think UKI has done anything wrong by not offering to renew Mr S policy.
Taking everything into account, I dont think UKI has treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman