DRN-2700797
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded an entry about him on a fraud 
prevention database in connection with his mortgage.
What happened
Mr S applied to renew his motor insurance, and was turned down. He then discovered that 
Barclays had also made an entry about him on the fraud prevention database CIFAS in 
2015. He complained to Barclays that it had made the entry and hadnt told him it had done 
so.
Mr S had two mortgages with Barclays, and in 2015 applied for a third. The two existing 
mortgages were on properties Ill call 5W and 2R. Both were residential mortgages. Mr S 
applied for a third mortgage, this time buy to let, giving his home address as a property Ill 
call 69P. So Barclays had concerns that he wasnt living in his residential properties.
Mr S said that he had applied for permission to let out 5W in 2015. And he said he had also 
had permission to let 2R  though that mortgage had been repaid in 2018. 
Barclays agreed it had granted permission to let on 2R in 2014. But it said it had no record of 
having granted permission to let on 5W  and it was policy not to do so with two residential 
properties at the same time. It said Mr S was in breach of the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage on 5W. And it considered he had been misusing his mortgage products.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair that Barclays had placed a marker on CIFAS. So he 
said it should be removed. Barclays didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Mr S was letting out both 2R and 5W and not living at either property, 
even though both had residential mortgages.
When Mr S applied for permission to let 2R in 2014, he gave his address on the form as 69P 
 not 5W. 
Mr S has said that he lived at 2R until 2014, and had also lived at 5W for some time. But due 
to changes in his parents health and his work situation, he moved to 69P, his fathers 
property (and on the same street as his mother).
Mr S applied for permission to let 5W in 2015. Barclays says it turned that application down 
because it wouldnt allow permission to let on two separate mortgages. Mr S says he was 
never told about this. He had discussed his situation with his relationship manager and 
believed permission would be granted, so when he didnt hear anything he assumed all was 
well. But Barclays says he knew or should have known that permission to let had been 
turned down and he should have been living in the property.
The CIFAS database is one of the industry wide fraud prevention databases. It plays a very 
important role in allowing information sharing about suspected financial crime across the 
financial services industry  helping protect the integrity of the system.
But for the same reasons, recording an entry about an individual can have serious 
consequences. And for that reason, there are safeguards. The databases principles for 
members are published on its website and  among other things  set out the standard 
required for making an entry.
One of the principles says that a member  such as Barclays  should only make a report 
where there are reasonable grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime has been 
committed or attempted. And the evidence to support those grounds must be clear, 
relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently report the conduct of the 
subject to the police.
In other words, an entry on the database requires good evidence of criminal conduct.
Even if I take Barclays case at its height, I dont think it can reasonably be said that it has 
shown the threshold has been met.
If Barclays is right, Mr S let out his residential properties without its consent. And that would 
put him in breach of his mortgage contract  and entitle Barclays to take various actions, 
including terminating the mortgage and repossessing the property to recover the debt. 
But breach of a mortgage contract is not a crime. Barclays has not provided any evidence 
that Mr S has committed or attempted fraud or any other crime. Nor has it sought to argue 
that he did so; it has argued that he has misused his mortgages. And while misusing existing 
facilities is one of the categories that can be recorded on the database, its still subject to the 
principle that there must be relevant and rigorous evidence to give rise to reasonable 
grounds to suspect fraud or crime. Im not persuaded in the circumstances that it was fair for 
Barclays to make a report.
Putting things right
As Im not persuaded it was fair to make a report, it follows that its fair that the record should 
be removed now.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to remove any entry it has made on a fraud protection database in 
connection with Mr S renting out property subject to his residential mortgages.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman