DRN-2564687
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund the money shes 
lost to a scammer.
What happened?
I understand that Ms H made the following faster payments from her Halifax account, in 
order to purchase a vehicle (the payments): 
Transaction amount Transaction date
£1,000 3 January 2019
£1,000 8 January 2019
£1,100 10 January 2019
£500 1 February 2019
She also withdrew £600 from her account using a cash machine on 4 January 2019 and paid 
the money over to the seller in person.
Ms H says she didnt receive the vehicle, and the seller stopped corresponding with her. 
When she discovered that the seller had previously been imprisoned for fraud, she 
contacted Halifax for help. But the bank just fobbed her off. 
She says she has been left struggling mentally and financially, and she would like Halifax to 
refund the money shes lost.
Halifax has said that: 
it didnt make any errors in handling the payments.
the payments arent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM).
it tried to recover Ms Hs funds from the receiving banks, but no funds remained in 
the beneficiary accounts.
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator didnt recommend that Halifax refund the money Ms H has lost. Ms H was 
unhappy with this outcome. She referred to the CRM and said she has fallen victim to a 
scam.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM. Under the CRM, the 
starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an 
Authorised Push Payment scam. Ms H has been the victim of this type of scam, but the 
CRM wasnt in force at the time she made the payments. So it doesnt apply in this case.
Its common ground that Ms H authorised the payments. She made them using mobile 
banking on her registered device. So even though Ms H was the victim of a scam, the 
payments were authorised under the Payment Services Regulations 2017. Halifax had an 
obligation to follow Ms Hs payment instructions, and Ms H is presumed liable for her loss in 
the first instance. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that Halifax 
should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
So Halifax should have been on the look-out for unusual and out of character transactions. 
Ive reviewed Ms Hs account statements in the months leading up to the scam and thought 
about the value and nature of the payments. Having done so, Im not persuaded that the 
payments were so suspicious or so unusual in comparison to normal account activity that 
they ought to have alerted Halifax that Ms H may be at risk of financial harm. Ms H made 
several transactions of the same type as the payments in the months leading up to the 
scam, albeit mostly inter-account. The payments themselves were fairly low value and they 
didnt significantly reduce the account balance. Looking at everything, I dont think Halifax 
acted unreasonably in processing the payments without making further enquiries.
Ive seen evidence that Ms H reported the fraud to Halifax in the late afternoon on 
29 March 2019, and that Halifax contacted the receiving banks to try to recover her funds 
that same afternoon. Halifax received responses from the receiving banks that none of 
Ms Hs funds remained in the beneficiary accounts to recover.
Im really sorry to hear that Ms H has been the victim of a scam. I appreciate how distressing 
this situation must have been for her. But it is my role to decide if Halifax has done anything 
wrong here and overall, I dont think it has. I cant hold Halifax responsible for Ms H having 
fallen victim to a scam. She authorised the payments, and she withdrew cash from her 
account and handed it over to the scammer. I dont think Halifax could reasonably have been 
expected to intervene. I also think Halifax acted promptly to try to help Ms H and recover her 
money when she made it aware of what had happened, and thats all that can fairly be 
expected of it.
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable of me to ask 
Halifax to refund Ms Hs loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman