DRN-4195614
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Ls Claims Ltd trading as Ingram Toft (Ingram Toft) failed to pursue an 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending claim on her behalf after it was rejected by her lender.
What happened
In May 2021 Mrs T said she instructed Ingram Toft to act on her behalf in making 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending claims with several of her lenders. Mrs T said after one of 
her lenders Ill call B rejected her claim Ingram Toft failed to send her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for them to consider the merits of her complaint. Mrs T said 
she didnt find out about the rejection until over six months later which meant she was too 
late to be able to refer her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. She complained 
to Ingram Toft.
Ingram Toft said they didnt receive the final response letter from B they said if they had 
they would have referred Mrs Ts complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service as theyve 
shown theyd done for other rejected claims that shed with them. Mrs T referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator said by failing to refer Mrs Ts complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service within the time allowed, Mrs T had lost the opportunity for the service to consider the 
merits of her complaint against B. For this she said Ingram Toft should pay Mrs T £250 for 
loss of opportunity.
Ingram Toft acknowledged our investigators outcome but didnt say whether they accepted it 
or wanted any further representations considered. Mrs Ts complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
In May 2021 I can see Mrs T signed a letter of authority (LoA) instructing Ingram Toft to act 
on her behalf in making unaffordable/irresponsible lending claims with her lenders, including 
B. From Ingram Tofts records I can see that upon receipt of a rejection of a claim from the 
lender they would usually look to escalate the complaint about the lending agreement to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Theyd do this by seeking further authority from Mrs T for 
them to pursue her complaint about the rejection with the service. 
I can see that this happened with a couple of Mrs Ts lenders, after her claim was rejected by 
them. But Ingram Toft didnt escalate Bs rejection to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Ingram Toft said this was because they didnt receive a final response letter from B. Ingram 
Toft said they only found out about the rejection when they actively pursued Mrs Ts claim 
with B in May 2022. Theyd asked Mrs T to sign another LoA in May 2022 and sent this 
along with a complaint to B about the loan accounts Mrs T had with them.
In response B told Ingram Toft the matter had already been resolved and included a copy 
of the final response letter they said theyd sent to Ingram Toft in July 2021. I can see from 
Ingram Tofts records that in September 2021 they told Mrs T they were still waiting for a 
response from B. It wasnt until October 2022 Ingram Toft told Mrs T about Bs rejection. I 
cant see that they explained to Mrs T what this meant for her complaint.  
The Financial Ombudsman Service operates according to a set of rules made by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). These rules are set out in a section of the FCAs 
Handbook called Dispute Resolution: Complaints ( DISP). The DISP rules include certain 
time limits. DISP 2.8.2 says that a complaint must be referred to the service within six 
months of the date of the businesss final response. Bs final response letter was dated    
05 July 2021 so Mrs T would have had up to 05 January 2022 for Ingram Toft to have 
referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service on her behalf. I cant see that 
Ingram Toft asked B about the status of her claim until May 2022, and said they didnt 
know about the rejection of her claim until June 2022. So, Mrs Ts complaint about Bs 
rejection couldnt be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service for them to consider 
whether this was fair or reasonable within the time allowed. 
While I accept Ingram Tofts comments, I can see the final response letter from B dated 
July 2021, is addressed to Ingram Tofts registered offices. The same address I can see on 
emails theyve sent to Mrs T and to B. So, Ive no reason to doubt the final response letter 
was sent. And I dont think its fair that Mrs T should lose out for administrative issues. The 
Claims Management Code of Business (CMCOB) is the relevant guidance. CMCOB 6.1.5R 
says:
A firm must notify the customer of: (b) any material development in the progress of 
the customers claim; 
CMCOB 6.1.9 (1) says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least once 
every six months, in a durable medium.
And CMCOB 6.1.10 (2)
The firm should give updates under CMCOB 6.1.9R until such time as the claim is finally 
determined or settled, or is withdrawn or discontinued.
Its clear from Ingram Tofts records that they didnt fully comply with the guidance as there is 
a period of over 12 months from September 2021when they didnt update Mrs T about her 
claim. And they havent provided any evidence that they asked B for any meaningful 
update about the status of her claim between May 2021 and  May 2022. If they had they 
would have been made aware of the final response letter being sent to them, probably in 
time for Mrs Ts complaint to be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Putting things right
I cant know whether Mrs Ts unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaint would have been 
upheld by the Financial Ombudsman Service. But I do think shes lost the opportunity for the merits of her complaint to be considered. For the distress and inconvenience this has 
caused Ingram Toft should pay Mrs T £250.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and ask Ls Claims Ltd trading as Ingram Toft to pay Mrs T £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman