DRN-2242216
The complaint
Mr A says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) incorrectly transferred his loan account to 
its recoveries team and recorded a default on his credit file after it was told he hadnt entered 
an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) as originally planned. Hes said the mistake 
affected his credit score and him financially. 
What happened
Mr A took out a loan in October 2014. As he missed some repayments, the loan went into 
arrears and in January 2018, he entered an IVA. Mr A has explained the IVA was cancelled 
shortly afterwards as he brought his repayments up to date. But RBS transferred the loan 
account to its recoveries department and registered a default on his file. Mr A flagged what 
had happened to RBS and it reversed this action. But around 24 May 2018, its said it 
transferred the loan account back to its recoveries department incorrectly.
Mr A made a complaint to RBS around December 2018. And in its final response letter dated 
January 2019, it apologised and said it had updated its records and removed the default. But 
when Mr A complained again in June 2019 RBS accepted the problem had happened again 
and offered him £75 as compensation for the error.
Unsatisfied with RBS response, Mr A came to our service. Whilst our investigator was 
looking into things, Mr A sent us screenshots to show the default had been registered again. 
Although RBS removed it when our investigator highlighted the problem, it kept reappearing 
each month. RBS couldnt explain why or stop it until around November 2019. So it offered 
Mr A £150 to make up for what was happening.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. He said RBS should increase the amount it had 
offered Mr A to £250 which means it would be paying £325 in total. Mr A didnt agree with 
our investigators opinion. He said RBS should refund him every loan repayment he had 
made since around November 2018 plus any interest incurred because he would have been 
able to refinance his borrowing with a lower rate loan if his credit score was better. And that 
would mean he couldve afforded to pay more towards his credit card account or his 
pension. He also said the situation has caused him a significant amount of stress. As the 
complaint wasnt resolved at that stage, it was passed to me to review. 
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2020. I explained I thought the 
complaint should be partially upheld in summary because:
RBS hadnt disputed it incorrectly reported a default on Mr As credit file for just under 
two years.
Mr A was in regular contact with RBS, had raised two complaints and signed up to 
several credit reference agencies to regularly check for incorrect records. And I 
thought this would have all been distressing and very inconvenient for him.
I didnt think the original amount awarded fully reflected the significant distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr A. 
I thought directing RBS to refund Mr As loan repayments would put him in a better 
position than he wouldve been in if there was no error as hed had use of the money.
I hadnt seen enough to make me think it was only because of the error made that 
Mr A wasnt able to secure a better deal  I could see other differences in his 
financial records that may have affected his credit score. And there are many factors 
lenders consider when deciding what terms and whether to accept loan applications. 
To put things right in this case, I thought RBS should pay Mr A a total of £575. It had already 
paid him £75 so I thought it should pay a further £500. And I thought it should reimburse him 
the amount hes paid to access his credit files between February 2018 and November 2019 
upon receipt of satisfactory evidence from him.
responses to my provisional decision
I asked both parties to make any further comments before I reached a final decision. RBS 
explained it didnt have further comments to make about the outcome. Mr A said at the time 
the IVA was cancelled he made a five-year financial plan for himself. But because of whats 
happened, his plan has been delayed by 18 months so hes not been able to get borrowing 
with a better rate of interest as quickly as he otherwise wouldve. He said he understands 
there are other factors that wouldve contributed to his credit score. But he thinks RBS 
should do more to get him back on track with his financial plan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything Mr As said in response to my provisional decision. And whilst I 
understand its going to be disappointing for him, I still think the complaint should be upheld 
in part only. 
I understand Mr As said he had a plan  which if things hadnt gone wrong, he would be 
further along as he thinks he wouldve been able to secure borrowing at a lower rate earlier. 
But Im not persuaded by what hes said. There are several things lenders consider as part 
of their lending decisions. This determines not only whether they agree to the application but 
on what terms. And based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied its more likely in this case it 
was only the default on Mr As file that stopped him from getting the lending he wouldve 
wanted. 
So overall, having looked at the responses Ive received, I havent changed my conclusions 
set out in my provisional decision. And for the reasons Ive explained above and in my 
provisional decision, I partially uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
RBS should pay Mr A a total of £575 as compensation for what hes been put through. As its 
already paid Mr A £75, this means it needs to pay him a further £500. And it should 
reimburse him the amount hes paid to access his credit files between February 2018 and 
November 2019 upon receipt of satisfactory evidence.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr As complaint in part and direct The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to put things right by doing what Ive said above.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 December 2020.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman