DRN-3367196
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) handled his claim for 
accidental damage to his mobile phone.
What happened
Mr P has a packaged bank account which provides cover for mobile phones. In July 2021 he 
made a claim on his mobile phone policy as hed accidentally damaged his screen.
AGI accepted the claim and asked Mr P to send in the phone for repair. The phone was 
received on 23 July 2021. An engineer assessed the phone and deemed it beyond repair on 
28 July 2021 as the part needed to complete the repair was out of stock.
The same day Mr P called following a text he had received, AGI explained the phone 
wouldnt be repaired and they didnt have the same handset, Samsung A51, in stock. They 
offered an alternative which was the Samsung Galaxy S9 Plus. They also gave Mr P the 
option of a cash settlement, initially offering £170 and later £269.99.
Mr P didnt accept the replacement handset as he felt it wasnt up to the same specification 
of the phone he had. He also felt £269.99 wasnt enough to replace his phone considering 
he had to pay £100 excess in making the claim. As a resolution he wanted an effective 
alternative phone, a reasonable cash offer or for his phone to be returned to him. He was 
also looking for compensation for the inconvenience caused.
He escalated his concerns, but AGI maintained their position. Mr P remained unhappy so 
referred his concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt think AGI needed to take any 
action. As Mr P was unhappy with this, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I have considered all the evidence, I havent commented on everything. Instead Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
It is for AGI to decide how to settle a claim. They have a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and the terms and conditions of the policy set out how they will settle 
claims. It says:
Following a successful claim XXX will repair or replace your handset up to a 
maximum value of £2,000 (including VAT) if your phone is lost, stolen, damaged or 
suffers breakdown (including faults).
XXX will repair the mobile phone (where possible) or replace it with a mobile 
phone of the same make, model and memory size, from new or refurbished stock. 
If XXX cannot do this you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent 
specification.
AGI were initially looking to repair the phone but as the replacement part was out of stock it 
couldnt be repaired. Instead they offered an alternative phone as they didnt have the same 
model as the one Mr P had in stock. The terms suggest a choice of models would be offered 
but AGI have explained that the model offered as a replacement was the only one they had 
available at the time with equivalent specifications. 
As well as offering another phone with equivalent specifications they also offered a cash 
settlement. I think this was the right thing to do so Mr P was able to choose. However, the 
initial cash settlement offered was lower than it should have been. AGI did rectify this within 
the day and offered Mr P £269.99 which was more in line with the market value of his phone.
Having looked at information AGI provided I can see that a new Samsung Galaxy A51 could 
be purchased from a reputable retailer for £269.00. So the cash settlement offered isnt 
unreasonable.
I understand Mr P feels that as he has already paid £100 excess he is out of pocket. 
However, the terms and conditions of the policy is clear that £100 excess applies for each 
successful claim. And even if the handset was replaced or repaired the £100 was still 
payable.
After the complaint was referred to our service AGI also offered two additional handsets as a 
replacement, the Google Pixel 3 XL or the Huawei P30 Pro. Having looked at all the phones 
offered as an alternative Im satisfied it was reasonable to offer them as a replacement given 
their specifications.
I know that Mr P wasnt given alternative options at the start of the claim but it wasnt 
possible to do so as they didnt have stock of phones suitable as a replacement. Thats why 
AGI offered a cash settlement. Mr P has said he wasnt told he could wait until alternatives 
were available. This isnt something that would generally be offered as AGI have a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. But Mr P could have asked about this if it 
was something he was considering.
Its clear at the start of the claim things didnt run smoothly but AGI quickly put things right by 
offering a reasonable resolution to the claim both in a replacement phone and cash 
settlement. I can understand the claim process was likely frustrating for Mr P especially 
when call backs were requested. However, the agent explained why she wasnt able to call 
Mr P back. AGI apologised for the level of service received which I think is enough in the 
circumstances.
I understand why Mr P wasnt confident accepting the offers made as they had changed a 
few times but Im satisfied he has been treated fairly taking account of the terms of the policy 
and the resolutions offered to settle the claim. 
Mr P has questioned why AGI didnt seek the part from elsewhere to repair his phone. 
Generally, insurers have approved repairers they work with under which they likely agree 
terms of business. But ultimately it is for them to decide how to settle the claim.
Im aware Mr P has asked for his phone back so he can arrange for a repair himself. But as 
the claim has already started and the phone inspected by an approved repairer, I dont think 
its unreasonable they arent able to do this. And they have offered a reasonable settlement 
to resolve the claim. I leave it to Mr P to decide if he wants to accept the cash settlement of 
£269.99 or one of the alternative handsets offered.My final decision
My final decision is that Assurant General Insurance Limited have offered a reasonable 
settlement to resolve Mr Ps claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman