DRN-2794285
The complaint
Mr and Ms H complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt given a cash refund for 
the premiums they paid for their annual-multi trip travel insurance policies. 
As Mr H and Ms H are insured under separate policies both are complainants.
What happened
Ms H bought two annual-multi trip travel insurance policies, insured by Great Lakes. 
Ms H bought a policy for herself on 28 January 2020, to cover any trips of up to 35 days 
duration taken in Europe. The policy year started on 16 March 2020 and ended on 15 March 
2021. 
Ms H paid £145.42 for her annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered her 
declared medical conditions. The premium Ms H paid for the standard level of travel 
insurance cover included a discount of £43.67.  
Ms H bought a policy for Mr H on 27 February 2020, to cover any trips of up to 35 days 
duration taken in Europe. The policy year started on 16 March 2020 and ended on 15 March 
2021. 
Ms H paid £329.93 for the annual multi-trip travel insurance cover for Mr H, which covered 
his declared medical conditions. The premium Ms H paid for the standard level of travel 
insurance cover for Mr H included a discount of £27.97. 
Ms H says that on 14 March 2020 the airline cancelled their holiday flights and they received 
a full refund. On 1 April 2020 Ms H contacted the broker to ask that rather than the policies 
be cancelled the policies start date could be postponed until 13 July 2020 when they had 
another flight booked. Great Lakes said the postponement Ms H asked for wasnt possible. 
As those flights were then also cancelled in May 2020 Mr and Ms H wanted to cancel the 
policies and have a cash refund of the premiums.
Great Lakes said it wouldnt provide a cash refund of the premiums as even when Ms H 
initially enquired about cancellation of the policies on 1 April the 14 day cooling off period 
had expired and its policy terms said no refund will be issued outside that period
Ultimately Great Lakes said it would offer Mr and Ms H:
1. a pro rata credit voucher towards buying a new 15-month annual policy for the price 
of 12 months, at the current market rates, or
2. a pro rata credit voucher towards buying a deferred annual policy. This will be for a 
12-month policy, at the current market rates. Ms and Mr H could choose to start the 
cover at any time within 12 months of purchasing the policy, or
3. as they may not want to travel abroad at the moment, a pro rata credit voucher 
towards buying a new UK only annual policy with the potential to upgrade the 
destination area at a later date subject to the policy terms and conditions.
Great Lakes said for the purposes of calculating the pro-rata credit it would take the date of 
the policies cancellation as being 1 April 2020 when Ms H first enquired about policy 
cancellation.
Mr and Ms H disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They made the following main 
points:
they wouldnt have cancelled the policies within the 14 days of the policies inception 
as they hadnt known there would be government restrictions due to Covid-19
their policies had now expired so Great Lakes should refund the premiums as it had 
given them no cover under the policies
they understood some other insurers were offering a proportion of premium refund
they wouldnt need a policy for travel in the UK as they only take out travel insurance 
to cover medical expenses and in the UK they have the NHS
Ms H said she hadnt wanted cancellation cover as by the time they had paid the 
excesses the claim value would be nominal but she had been told she couldnt take 
out a policy without cancellation cover.
Before I made my decision I asked Great Lakes to give some more detail about the terms of 
the voucher and for its calculation of the pro rata credits for Mr and Ms H.
Great Lakes said the voucher is to be used immediately on one of the three options and the 
voucher wasnt transferrable unless Mr and Ms H could provide information which showed  
Great Lakes should consider a transfer. The offers are for a limited time only and were 
currently still available but could be withdrawn at any time. Great Lakes provided its 
calculations which showed a pro rata credit for Ms H of £137.13 and for Mr H of £314.24.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contract like the one Mr and Ms H held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Ms H didnt cancel their travel insurance policies within 14 days. 
The policy terms and conditions 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Ms Hs insurance policies with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mr and Ms Hs cancellation rights under the contracts of insurance are more favourable to 
them than is required by industry rules. But Ms Hs policy was purchased on 28 January 
2020 and Mr Hs policy was purchased on 27 February 2020. Although it appears that both 
policies were not cancelled Great Lakes has taken the date of cancellation for both policies 
as 1 April 2020 when Ms H first enquired about cancellation, which is fair. This was more 
than 14 days after Ms H bought each policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider 
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of 
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
This means I dont think Mr and Ms H are entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms 
and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand why any future travel plans which Mr and Ms H might have had during the remainder of the policy year  and therefore the need for these annual multi-trip insurance 
policies  changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought about 
whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and 
the terms and conditions of Mr and Ms Hs contract because of the exceptional and 
extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Ms Hs contracts with Great Lakes 
to be performed  cover under both policies started on 16 March 2020.  
Although it appears that neither of Mr H or Ms Hs policies were actually cancelled, 
Great Lakes has for its offer purposes taken the policies cancellation date to be 1 April 2020, 
when Ms H first enquired about cancellation, which is fair to Mr and Ms H. So for the 
purpose of my explanation Ill refer to the date of policy cancellation/end of cover as being 
1 April 2020 which is the notional date of cancellation. Otherwise, if Great Lakes hadnt used 
the 1 April as the notional policy cancellation date as the policies ran to their expiry date the 
pro rata credit would be nil.
Mr and Ms H were insured from 16 March 2020 for travelling on any number of trips of up to 
35 days duration which they may have taken in the policy cover year. Because of the way 
annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many such 
trips Mr and Ms H took (unless they made a claim under their policy). There may have been 
many trips or there may have been none, but Great Lakes was covering the risk of a claim 
during the time the policy was in force.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mr and Ms H for cancellation of any holidays which 
they had booked and were due to take from 16 March 2020 until 15 March 2021, Mr and 
Ms H would have been covered if they had to cancel any number of holidays because of any 
listed events insured under the policies including, for example, Mr and Ms H falling ill with a 
declared pre-existing medical condition. 
So, Great Lakes covered the risk of Mr and Ms H making a successful cancellation claim for 
any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays, from 
16 March 2020 to 1 April 2020, the notional date of the policies cancellation. Its a 
fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk 
concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of 
what Mr and Ms Hs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered.
Ms H says she didnt want to take out cancellation cover but was told she had to. I dont 
think that makes a difference to what Ive said above about Great Lakes giving cancellation 
cover as Ms H chose to buy the policies having been told she needed to have cancellation 
cover. It was open to her to seek alternative cover elsewhere if the policy wasnt right for her, 
although most travel insurance policies on the market include cover for cancellation as 
standard. 
However, after 1 April 2020, the notional date of the policies cancellation, due to Covid-19 
Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under Mr and Ms Hs insurance policies for their holidays. 
One holiday had already been cancelled due to Covid-19 and Great Lakes hasnt paid a 
claim in relation to that. Their later holiday was also cancelled and theres no evidence that 
Great Lakes paid a claim in relation to that holiday either. Great Lakes was therefore no 
longer carrying the risk of holidays being cancelled for any other insured reason. And, as the 
holidays were no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was also no longer carrying the risk of any claim being made while Mr and Ms H were travelling abroad.
Although the policies werent actually cancelled and ran until expiry, for the purposes of  
Great Lakes offer it was not providing cancellation cover for any holidays which Mr and 
Ms H may have had booked, of for any travelling that they may have done either abroad or 
within the UK from 1 April 2020. 
So, based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Ms H 
with a pro-rata refund of the premiums they paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance 
policies from 1 April 2020, which Great Lakes had agreed as being the date Ms H first 
enquired about the policies cancellation.
How the refund should be paid 
In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr and Ms Hs 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I understand Mr and Ms H's reasons for doing so, it was their decision to want to 
cancel the insurance policy. They entered into contracts with Great Lakes, paying premiums 
in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policies. 
Paying a refund by way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved 
to a future date.    
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mr and Ms H. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that 
voucher being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. 
The offer which Great Lakes has offered are vouchers for a choice of different policies as 
detailed above. The voucher can be used by Mr and Ms H and may be transferrable to a 
third party if Mr and Ms H can provide evidence to Great Lakes that its reasonable to 
transfer.
I understand Mr and Ms H had no need to cancel the policies within the 14 day cooling off 
period for each policy. But Ive explained above why I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider cancellation outside of the 14 days due to the 
Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances and to refund the premiums in 
cash. Ms H said their policies had expired so Great Lakes should refund the premiums as it 
had given them no cover under the policies. Ive explained above why I dont agree that 
Great Lakes gave no cover and Great Lakes is offering a pro rata credit voucher so Mr and 
Ms H can buy future travel insurance cover. 
Even if Ms H only buys travel insurance for medical expenses cover abroad Great Lakes 
offer isnt just for a voucher to buy a policy which only covers UK travel, its given alternative 
options. Although Ms H understands some other insurers were offering a proportion of 
premium refunds in cash that doesnt mean Great Lakes offer is unreasonable as it goes 
beyond what they are required to do by the contract of insurance and the relevant industry 
rules and guidelines.  
I understand why Mr and Ms H may not wish to use a voucher. However, ultimately under 
the industry rules, guidelines and policy terms Great Lakes doesnt need to give Mr or Ms H 
any refund, whether cash or voucher. Ive taken into account Mr and Ms Hs comments on 
their lack of travel plans for the future and their comments about the availability of the NHS 
in the UK. But I dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably restrictive, so I think the voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances.
The calculation of the voucher 
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and 
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period 
of cover. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its annual multi-trip travel insurance policies. And Im 
satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Ms H unfairly or any differently to other 
customers in similar circumstances. 
The vouchers values have been calculated based on Mr and Ms Hs unused period of their 
travel insurance cover. 
The premium Ms H paid for her policy and for Mr Hs policy was for a period of 
approximately 365 days from 16 March 2020 to 15 March 2021. 
The value of the vouchers which Great Lakes has offered to Ms H and Mr H equate to the 
premiums equivalent to 349 unused days of cover from the notional date the policies were 
cancelled, 1 April 2020, until the original end date of the insurance policy on 15 March 2021. 
This reflects the fact that Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policies 
from the notional date the policies were cancelled. 
I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be asking Great Lakes to 
do anything further.
My final decision
I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman