DRN-2029727
The complaint
Miss B complains that Santander UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Miss B in connection with a
mortgage. Miss B says she took out the cover in 1986 at the same time as her mortgage, 
but Santanders records suggest the policy didnt start until 1989. The policy provided 
cover for Miss B if she couldnt work because of unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as 
those set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Miss Bs needs?
- Did Santander give Miss B the information she needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether
Miss B is worse off as a result. That is, would she have done something different  such as 
not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs case and Ive set out my reasons below.
I can see that Miss B has put time and effort into her complaint, and that she has strong 
feelings about the way in which the policy was sold. I can also appreciate her frustration with 
the lack of documentary evidence from Santander, and why she might feel that her 
recollection of events isnt being properly considered.
Id like to reassure Miss B that Ive thought carefully about everything shes said. And as Ive 
explained above, where the evidence is limited I have to consider what I think is most likely 
to have happened - on the balance of probabilities and taking into account what we know 
about the businesss sales processes at the time. 
Its not unusual for us to have to take that approach in complaints where the policy was sold 
many years ago, and there is limited available evidence.
Miss B has said the policy was sold when she arranged her mortgage in 1986. But 
Santanders internal records suggest it didnt start until 1989. The complaint has been 
assessed on the basis that the policy was sold during a meeting, but Miss B says she didnt 
attend any meetings with Santander 1989.
Given the amount of time thats passed since the policy was sold, Santander cant say for 
sure how the policy was sold. I dont think thats unreasonable. But I think its treated Miss 
Bs complaint on the basis that it was sold during a meeting, because an assessment on that 
basis is likely to give the most favourable outcome to the customer.
Im also mindful that it wasnt unusual for PPI policies to be sold some time after a mortgage 
had started. Lenders sometimes carried out PPI promotions during the life of the mortgage 
product. Given the internal records Ive seen, on balance I think its likely that Miss Bs PPI 
policy started in 1989.
But even if I were to accept that it started in 1986, that doesnt change my overall 
conclusions about the complaint.
Miss B says Santander didnt make it clear to her that the PPI was optional. The difficulty I 
have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Miss B and Santander when the 
policy was sold. In light of the amount of time thats passed since the policy was sold 
(whether that was 1986 or 1989) and without anything else to support what Miss B has told 
me, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that Santander didnt make 
her aware she had a choice about buying the policy.
Santander has accepted that it advised Miss B to take out the policy and it doesnt look 
like it was unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I 
say this because:
-There is nothing to suggest Miss B wasnt eligible for the policy.
 
- Miss B says she didnt need the PPI because she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employer if she couldnt work because of sickness or accident. But the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to her employer benefits, and would have allowed her 
to use those benefits to cover other expenses if things went wrong. 
So I think Miss B wouldve had some use for the policy despite her existing 
arrangements. 
- There is nothing to suggest Miss B wouldve been affected by the conditions limiting 
the policys main benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people 
with pre-existing medical conditions. As she could have benefited from the full extent 
of the cover I think it unlikely she needed better advice or information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Miss B before she agreed to 
buy it. But the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Miss B would have made a different decision if better 
information about the cost had been provided.
Its possible the information Santander gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, its unlikely that Miss B was affected by any of 
the exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it 
unlikely Miss B would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided  overall, I think she would still have taken out the policy.
Miss B has told me that she took out the PPI in connection with an endowment mortgage 
that was subsequently found to have been mis-sold. But the PPI was a separate product to 
the mortgage. And its likely Miss B wouldve needed an alternative form of mortgage to 
buy her property, with corresponding protection for the mortgage repayments. So Im not 
persuaded that the mis-sale of her endowment mortgage meant that the PPI was also mis-
sold.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman