DRN-3347036
The complaint
Mr O complains that British Gas Services Limited (BG) damaged a filter in his boiler, which 
they then removed but didnt directly replace under his HomeCare insurance policy. He feels 
this contributed to his boiler needing to be replaced.
What happened
Mr O had HomeCare insurance with BG on a property he rented out. This provided boiler 
and controls cover, including an annual service and gas safety certificate. 
Mr O said that in January 2020 BG damaged a filter in his boiler and caused it to leak. He 
said that in December 2020 BG were called out to fix the leak. They removed the filter and 
replaced it with piping. Mr O said he wasnt aware that the filter had been removed and not 
replaced. 
BG said they told the person who was present for the engineer visit that the filter had been 
removed. And that this was reflected in the engineers visit notes.
In May 2021 BG emailed Mr O about damage to the property which they felt couldve been 
caused by a minor leak theyd missed. Theyd previously declined to accept liability for 
damage caused by the leak. BG said they would arrange to attend the property to assess 
the damage and put it right.
In July 2021 the boiler broke down. Mr O had it replaced by a third party. That party told Mr 
O that the existing central heating filter had been removed and bypassed before theyd 
installed the new boiler. 
BG said it wasnt responsible for the leaking filter. And said that a direct replacement wasnt 
included under the terms of the policy.
Mr O complained to BG. They called Mr O to explain why their engineer had cut out the filter 
and replaced it with a pipe. At this point, BG said that Mr O suggested that a previous BG 
engineer had created the leak. BG said they would investigate. Mr O said he wanted BG to 
compensate him for the cost of installing the new boiler. And the cost of buying and installing 
a replacement filter. 
In their final response letter, dated 29 December 2021, BG didnt uphold his complaint. They 
didnt agree that they were responsible for Mr O needing a new boiler. They felt theyd 
highlighted the poor condition of the boiler during previous visits. As Mr O had a new boiler 
with its own warranty, BG cancelled his policy and refunded him the payments hed made to 
them since the new boiler was installed.
Mr O complained to this service. In his first view, our investigator felt that his complaint 
should be upheld. He felt that BG had acted correctly and followed the terms of the policy 
when theyd removed the filter. But thought that theyd accepted liability for the damage that 
had been caused to the boiler. He felt BG should pay Mr O the reasonable cost of replacing 
the boiler on a like for like basis. 
BG didnt agree. They said their engineer didnt break the filter. So they didnt consider that 
they should do anything further.
Our investigator asked BG to explain why they had appeared to accept liability for the leak in 
their 19 May 2021 email. They said that the email showed that theyd agreed to deal with 
resultant property damage. But felt that the component had failed, causing the leak. And 
therefore they didnt agree they were responsible for its replacement. BG provided the job 
notes from the engineers visit in December 2020. These showed that there had been a leak 
before the engineer visited.
Our investigator issued a second view in which he considered what BG had said and 
provided. But he still considered that the complaint should be upheld. 
BG didnt agree. So the complaint came to me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 2 March 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. I dont agree with our investigator that BG should 
be held responsible for the leaking filter. Ill explain why.
Did BG do what they were supposed to in December 2020?
Mr O said that BGs engineer removed the filter within his boiler without his consent in 
December 2020. He said he only found out about this when he had his old boiler replaced. 
He said BG didnt put the boiler back to its original state. And felt that this had contributed to 
it breaking down in July 2021.
BG said that during the December 2020 visit, their engineer noted that a filter that had been 
installed by a third party was leaking. According to the terms and conditions of the policy, the 
engineer shouldve either put piping on the boiler or quoted for a new filter. As the engineer 
couldnt fit a new filter without Mr Os permission, and because he couldnt get in touch with 
him, he put piping on the boiler. I can confirm that this was the correct process as replacing 
the filter wouldve been classed as chargeable upgrade work, which wasnt covered under 
the policy. 
BG said that their engineer wouldve left the job sheet with the responsible adult present at 
the time of the visit. And that it wasnt their responsibility to ensure that Mr O was informed 
about what had happened. They noted that the policy terms state the following:
Authority to carry out work
If youre not at the property when our engineer visits, you must make sure that there is 
somebody else present who can give instructions to our engineer on your behalf and you 
must ensure you obtain any job sheets or advice that the engineer leaves with that person.
If you are a tenant, it is your responsibility to ensure that you have obtained the relevant 
consent from your landlord to enable you to give instructions to our engineer and that you 
pass any job sheets or advice from the engineer back to the landlord.  
It is your responsibility to get consent from any relevant third parties (such as a neighbour) 
where you and they, for example, share a water supply pipe or driveway.Based on the policy terms, Ive seen no evidence that BG didnt follow the correct process 
when they replaced the faulty filter with piping.
However, Mr O considers that BGs earlier actions caused the filter to leak in the first place. 
Clearly if BG did break the filter it would only be fair and reasonable for me to uphold this 
complaint, despite the terms and conditions. So Ive next considered whether BG broke the 
filter.
Did BG break the filter?
From what Ive seen, there is no certainty about how and when the filter started leaking. So 
its not clear how the filter became faulty. 
BGs position is that the component failed and needed replacing. They dont feel that they 
should be held accountable for the filter failure. Mr O considers that BG damaged the filter 
prior to the December 2020 engineers visit. He feels that as BG broke it, they shouldve 
replaced it. And he considers that the removal of the filter contributed to the boiler 
breakdown. He said that his boiler had clogged up very quickly after the filter had been 
removed. 
From what I understand, Mr Os position is that BG damaged the filter in his boiler during a 
January 2020 visit. Mr O said that in January 2020 he didnt know the filter had been 
damaged by BGs engineer. But that BG admitted to causing this damage in their May 2021 
email to him. 
Mr O said that BG had lied that his boiler was outdated. He said that the boiler was new. And 
had been installed less than five years earlier. He felt BGs engineers had ruined the boiler. 
He said that on one visit BG had tried to sell him a filter, which he said they said he didnt 
have. And that when hed pointed out where the filter was the engineer had cleaned it which 
had damaged it.
BG disagreed. They said that the filter hadnt been damaged by the engineer.  And said that 
the component had failed, causing the leak. They also said that theyd been correct to 
replace the failed filter in the way that they had.
BG also said the filter was leaking when their engineer attended and needed to be replaced. 
They said that the online appointment booking showed that there was a leak already 
present. They considered that this was evidence that the filter was already damaged.
BG also said that theyd advised Mr O that if his tenant was constantly topping up the 
pressure it would be evident there was an issue. And questioned why theyd not been called 
to attend. They said that prior to his complaint, Mr O had two appointments where their 
engineers informed him that hed benefit from a new boiler due to its poor condition. These 
appointments were carried out on 28 February 2018 and 30 October 2019. They said that 
since then, hed had 15 further appointments where their engineers recommended an 
upgrade to his system due to its poor condition. But that Mr O had declined these 
recommendations. They felt that this showed that Mr O wouldve needed a new boiler 
regardless of what had happened with the filter. BGs experts said they: were comfortable 
that the customer needs a new boiler due to the age and efficiency of the old one and not 
because of anything we have done wrong. Its clear that the boiler has lived its full expected 
life cycle and didnt owe the customer anything.  
Ive carefully considered all the information both parties have provided. And reviewed the 
May 2021 email that BG sent to Mr O. The email was about Mr Os claim for property 
damage. It said: we agreed that there was potential that we were unable to see the leak coming from the filter due to it being hidden out of the way.  As the leak was minor, we 
believe that there was potential for this to cause damage and go unnoticed. So BG admitted 
that they had missed a boiler leak they potentially couldve noticed. Because of this, they 
accepted responsibility for the property damage that leak had caused. 
The email went on to say: Due to these reasons, we have changed the outcome and agreed 
to accept the liability as we do agree that we touched the filter in January, then in July before 
finally removing it in December of 2020.  Mr O took this to mean that BG had accepted that 
their engineer had damaged the filter during the January 2020 visit. But BG disagreed. They 
said there was no reason that they should be held liable. 
My reading of the May 2021 email is that when BG said: we do agree that we touched the 
filter in January, then in July before finally removing it in December of 2020, that they meant 
that they shouldve spotted the leaking part earlier. I dont agree with Mr O  or with our 
investigator  that this meant that BG accepted that they had broken the filter by touching it. 
And Im not persuaded that theres evidence that BG did anything to cause the filter to break. 
I acknowledge that Mr O said that BG had cleaned it and that had damaged it. But Ive no 
evidence that he reported his concerns to BG at the time.  
From what Ive seen, BG have slightly misunderstood the situation here. And Im not 
persuaded by their argument that the December 2020 engineers visit proved that the filter 
was already leaking before they attended the property. We know this to be the case from 
other evidence, for example, notes from the 13 June 2020 visit which said: Repair leaking 
[filter name].
In line with our investigator, I cant be sure how the filter was damaged. But unlike our 
investigator, I dont consider that BG accepted responsibility for the damaged filter when 
they said that their engineer had touched it while carrying out work. So, based on the 
evidence that Ive seen, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to say that its more likely than not 
that BG damaged the filter.
In summary, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence showing that BG damaged the 
filter. And Im satisfied that BG followed the terms and conditions of Mr Os policy when they 
replaced the filter with piping. Therefore I dont intend to uphold Mr Os complaint.
Response to my provisional decision
BG agreed with my provisional decision.
Mr O didnt agree with the decision. 
He shared a video of the broken filter lid, which he said wasn't properly sealed up after the 
BG engineer had opened it to clean the filter. He said theyd broken the seal cover. He said 
the video clearly showed a leak from the top of filter. And that it showed there was no 
mechanical fault. He felt BGs position was that the filter had failed due to a mechanical fault. 
Mr O also shared a photo that he said showed the BG engineer cleaning the filter in January 
2020. 
Mr O said BG didnt leave a note to explain that the filter had been removed and not 
replaced. So he wasnt told that the filter was removed and wouldn't be replaced. He said 
BG had called him to ask if he had a copy of the note theyd left behind the day it was 
removed. But he didnt have one. He felt BG had lied about ever leaving a note. 
He said that the BG engineer whod visited the property on 16 December 2020 had told him 
that the engineer whod cleaned the filter in January 2020 had left the filter unsealed. He also shared the email BG had sent him with the details of the work done on 16 December 
2002. This said: 
Engineer comments: CODE6 cut out leaking 3rd party filter, re-piped, behind kitchen 
cupboard, hard to access.
Mr O felt that this didnt explain that the filter had been removed and not replaced. He also 
said that the engineer had noted that access was difficult. He felt this meant the filter was out 
of sight and therefore difficult for anyone to notice the poor job the previous engineer, who 
cleaned the boiler back in January 2020, had done. He asked our investigator to forward the 
note BG had left at the property on the day of the December 2020 visit. Our investigator got 
permission from BG to share this with Mr O.
Mr O questioned how BG couldve previously accepted liability for damaging his filter but 
now not agree to replace it. He felt they were lying about what had happened. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered what Mr O has said. And the new evidence hes provided, including 
the video and photograph. 
I know this will disappoint Mr O, but while I acknowledge that he believes that BG broke the 
filter, I still dont consider that theres enough evidence to show how, or when, the filter was 
broken. Ive also not seen evidence that BG ever said that the part had failed due to a 
mechanical fault. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to hold BG responsible for 
breaking the filter.
Regarding Mr Os points about whether BG alerted him to the removal without replacement 
of the filter, I consider I covered this in my provisional decision. But I note that the engineers 
comments on the email sent to Mr O do show that the filter had been removed and that the 
boiler had been re-piped. I acknowledge that Mr O didnt take this email to mean his filter 
hadnt been replaced.
Regarding Mr Os point about BG accepting theyd broken the filter. I covered this in my 
provisional decision. BG have confirmed they only accepted they shouldve noticed the leak. 
At no point did they accept theyd broken the filter.
Having reviewed all of the new information provided by Mr O, I remain of the view I set out in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman