DRN-3303213
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo), wont refund the money she lost after falling 
victim to an authorised push payment (APP) investment scam whereby she sent money to 
two accounts held at Monzo.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Miss R fell victim to a social media investment scam. As part of the scam, 
Miss R made three payments from her bank account, to two accounts held at Monzo.
Miss R made the following payments to the following accounts held at Monzo:
Account 1:
Time Date Amount
19:10pm 27 January 2021 £650
Account 2:
Time Date Amount
22:45pm 27 January 2021 £1,000
22:45pm 27 January 2021 £875
After the scam was revealed, Miss R complained to her Bank and also raised concerns 
about Monzo, where the receiving bank accounts were held. 
Miss Rs Bank is signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). And Monzo, while not a signatory, has also agreed 
to abide by the principles of the CRM Code. 
The CRM Code was implemented to reduce the occurrence of APP scams. It sets out what 
is expected of the Sending Firm when payments are made which includes a consideration 
of whether a customer met their requisite level of care when making the payment. And it also 
sets out the obligations for the Receiving Firm to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt 
of funds from APP scams in order to prevent accounts from being opened, or used, to 
launder the proceeds of APP scams. 
Where there is a failing by either the Sending Firm or Receiving Firm, they may be required 
to reimburse the customer. And the customer may also be required to share some 
responsibility for the loss if it is determined that they also failed to meet their requisite level of 
care under the CRM Code.
Monzo, once notified of the fraud, restricted the accounts in question. Monzo was able to 
recover £0.46 from one of the accounts, as that was all that remained. Monzo wasnt able to 
recover any funds from the other account as all the funds had already been moved on or 
withdrawn.
Miss R, after complaining to her Bank, ultimately received 50% of her losses  as it 
considered it could have done more in the circumstances, but also felt Miss R should share 
some responsibility. Our service looked at Miss Rs complaint about her Bank (as the 
Sending Firm) under a separate reference and considered the offer of 50% was fair.
Miss R says Monzo, as the Receiving Firm, should also share some responsibility. Miss R 
wants it to refund her the remaining loss as she considers two of its accounts were opened 
and used fraudulently.
Monzo didnt agree that it was liable for any remaining loss Miss R incurred. It said it had 
complied with regulatory obligations and followed its internal procedures correctly. It also 
advised that once it was notified of fraud it took the appropriate actions. Monzo also said that 
it carried out an investigation into the accounts but due to data protection regulations it 
wasnt able to share any details of its investigation, the outcome or the actions it took. 
Miss R referred her complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into things and 
didnt recommend that Monzo needed to do anything further. Overall, she was satisfied 
Monzo had met the standards required of it under the CRM Code and wasnt responsible for 
Miss Rs losses as it couldnt reasonably have done more to prevent Miss Rs loss. She was 
also satisfied it had responded appropriately to the notification of fraud. 
Miss R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Monzo  as the Receiving Firm 
of the accounts where Miss R made payments to. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss R but Im not upholding her complaint about Monzo. I know 
shes been the victim of a cruel scam and I dont doubt that these events have had a 
significant impact on her. But I dont believe Monzo has acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
answering of the complaint. Im satisfied Monzo has met its requirements under the 
CRM Code and therefore isnt liable for Miss Rs losses. Ill explain why.
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Monzo, are required to
conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2)
and to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing
of terrorism requirements.Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the
relationship).
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that Monzo have agreed to 
abide by the principles of.
The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
 
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being 
used to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures 
to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. 
Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they 
may be the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond 
in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for 
criminal purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are 
being, used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving 
Firm, the receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures 
set out in the Best Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if Monzo met the standards required of it 
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether Monzo opened the receiving account 
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should 
have given Monzo any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act 
appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of 
the above, I have to consider whether Monzos acts or omissions fairly resulted in Miss Rs 
loss.I would like to point out to Miss R at this point, that while Monzo has provided our service 
with information about the receiving bank accounts  it has done so in confidence. This is to 
allow us to discharge our investigatory functions and Monzo has provided that which is 
necessary for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our service 
cant share any information about the beneficiaries, the receiving bank accounts or any 
investigation and action Monzo subsequently took. However I would like to assure Miss R I 
have thoroughly reviewed and considered all the information provided before reaching my 
decision.
  
Prevention - The account opening process
To help decide whether or not a bank failed to prevent the loss of an APP victim when
opening the beneficiary account, we would generally ask to see evidence that; it correctly
followed its account opening procedures; carried out checks to verify the identity of the
named account holder; and did its due diligence when opening the account.
I appreciate Miss R has said she doesnt think Monzo has followed correct procedures as 
accounts were opened and were subsequently used fraudulently. But in the circumstances 
of this complaint, Im satisfied that Monzo carried out checks to verify the identity of the 
named account holder and did its due diligence when opening the beneficiary accounts. 
There wasnt anything at the time that I think reasonably couldve alerted Monzo that the 
accounts it was opening would later be used fraudulently. So Im satisfied Monzo has taken 
reasonable steps to prevent the accounts being opened for criminal purposes and it didnt 
miss an opportunity to prevent Miss Rs loss when opening the accounts.
Detection - Account activity
The primary duty of a bank is to follow their customers instructions and make payments as
directed in line with the mandate  which is usually set out in the terms and conditions of the
account. The CRM Code sets out that Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts 
which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. This ties in with long standing 
regulatory and legal obligations Banks and Building Societies have to monitor their business 
relationships and to be alert to other risks - such as fraud, which would include giving 
consideration to unusual and out of character transactions.
Ive looked at the account history for both beneficiary accounts and I cant say there was any 
account activity that I think would reasonably have stood out to Monzo as suspicious or 
significantly outside of what might be expected for accounts of that type. Im also satisfied 
there was no notification of fraud on the accounts prior to the payments Miss R made into 
the accounts and no other red flags where it could reasonably be argued that Monzo might 
have had sufficient grounds to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers 
payment instructions.
So, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied Monzo has demonstrated that it has taken reasonable 
steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, used to receive APP scam funds. I also 
dont think Monzo ought reasonably to have had concerns where I would have expected it to 
have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could have prevented Miss Rs loss in this way 
either.Response to notification of fraud
The Best Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a 
speedy manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds 
remain for recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied Monzo took the necessary 
actions required of it and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, only £0.46 of Miss Rs 
funds remained in one of the beneficiary accounts which was returned to Miss R. And no 
funds remained in the other beneficiary account as they had already been moved on / 
withdrawn from the account.
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, 
Monzo responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards. 
And I dont think I can fairly say Monzo didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP 
fraud.
Overall, while Miss R was the unfortunate victim of a scam, Im satisfied that Monzo met the 
standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think Monzo couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Miss Rs money. And it 
responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think they are 
liable to reimburse Miss R for her remaining loss under the CRM Code or otherwise.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman