DRN-4023743
The complaint
Mr J complains about the way Equifax Limited handled disputes he raised in relation to 
fraudulent entries and incorrect information on his credit file.
 
What happened
Last year, Mr J contacted Equifax and explained hed been the victim of fraud. Mr J has told 
us he contacted the lenders and businesses involved to raise concerns about various entries 
on his credit file. Mr J also contacted Equifax and asked it to remove the disputed entries. Mr 
J supplied correspondence from the businesses involved and also gave Equifax details of 
the complaint handlers who were handling his cases. 
Equifax says it raised disputes with all the businesses Mr J contacted it about. Some of the 
businesses responded and asked Mr J to contact them directly to discuss his dispute. Other 
businesses failed to respond and Equifax removed the disputed data. And some businesses 
responded and confirmed the entries could be removed from Mr Js credit file. 
Equifax referred Mr J back to the businesses involved where it didnt receive confirmation 
that the disputed data could be removed from his credit file. 
Mr J went on to complain and said Equifax had taken too long and failed to take the 
necessary action after he forwarded evidence from the businesses involved. Equifax sent Mr 
J a final response and set out the action it had taken following the various disputes raised. 
Equifax said it had taken action to remove disputed information when responses werent 
received or the businesses confirmed they could do so. But Equifax said there were 
instances where the businesses failed to give permission to remove the information. 
Equifax also said it had tried to use a Notice of Disassociation to remove third party 
information from Mr Js credit file. But due to the level of similarities between the third party 
and Mr J the process didnt work. Equifax said that when the Notice of Disassociation was 
removed the disputed third partys details no longer showed on his credit file. 
Equifax apologised that a dispute with one of the businesses involved had initially been 
raised in relation to the wrong account and offered Mr J £30 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr J referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Equifax had dealt with Mr Js disputes and complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr J asked to appeal and said it was action he took that led to the businesses involved 
correcting his credit file, not Equifax. Mr J also said Equifax had taken too long to deal with 
his disputes and correct his credit file. As Mr J asked to appeal, his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Ive read and considered everything Mr Js told us in bringing his complaint. Ive also looked 
at Equifaxs case file which contains details and timelines for all the disputes that were 
raised on his behalf. Ive seen the interaction Equifax had with the various businesses that 
were recording disputed information on Mr Js credit file along with the responses it received. 
I havent referred to each dispute individually as Im satisfied all parties are aware of the 
specific concerns Mr J had. But, in line with what Ive said above, Ive considered all the 
available information and focused on the different disputes Mr J raised to see whether 
Equifax dealt with them in a fair and reasonable manner. 
Mr Js explained that Equifax took too long to remove the disputed information from his credit 
file. I can see the situation went on for a long time. And there was a considerable level of 
back and forth between Mr J and Equifax during that time. But credit reference agencies 
cant remove or amend information reported by businesses on the basis that a request is 
made by the customer. Before the information reported can be changed or deleted, a dispute 
has to be raised with the business involved. So Ive looked at each of the disputes Mr J 
made to see whether Equifax disputed them, as its required to do under the rules. 
I can see Mr Js growing frustration that information wasnt quickly removed. But Im satisfied 
that Equifax contacted all the businesses he raised concerns about and initiated disputes as 
Mr J made them. There was time spent waiting for responses to be received. Where a 
business fails to respond, Equifax can delete the disputed data after a certain length of time. 
And that happened in a number of disputes Mr J raised. I understand other businesses 
mayve told Mr J theyd already contacted Equifax to amend the disputed information. But 
the dispute responses Equifax received said Mr J should contact the businesses to discuss 
the issue directly. I appreciate that meant it took longer to remove the disputed information. 
But as the businesses didnt respond to Equifax with confirmation the disputed entries could 
be removed, Im satisfied it took appropriate action by referring Mr J back to the businesses. 
Mr Js told us he thinks the process took too long. But the information Ive seen doesnt show 
unreasonable delays from Equifax overall or that it treated Mr J unfairly. 
In its final response, Equifax advised Mr J that one of the disputes he raised had originally 
been referred to the business in relation to the wrong account. I accept this caused some 
confusion and delay. But Equifax went on to revisit the dispute using the correct account 
details. And I can see it offered Mr J £30 for the distress and inconvenience caused when it 
sent him its final response. In my view, the £30 offer fairly reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr J and is a reasonable way to resolve his complaint. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr J but I havent been persuaded to increase the award. As Im satisfied Equifax 
has agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it 
to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Equifax Limited has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman