DRN-2973978
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Allianz Insurance Plc added an exclusion to her equine insurance 
policy part way through a claim, and it declined to cover her remaining costs.
  
What happened
Mrs S recalls she bought her horse in 2011. In April 2019, she took out an equine insurance 
policy, on-line. The policy was underwritten by Allianz. About six months later, she made a 
claim for veterinary costs, due to an abscess on the horses larynx. 
Allianz accepted the claim and covered some claimed costs. However, it later discovered the 
horse had undergone a tieback operation in 2010. Allianz says, had it been made aware of 
the tieback operation when the policy was taken out, it would have applied the following 
policy exclusion: claims resulting from or connected to the larynx.
Upon learning about the tieback, Allianz retrospectively added the exclusion to the policy 
and declined to cover further costs related to the abscess. Allianz accepted the abscess 
wasnt linked to the tieback, but it said the policy exclusion still applied.
Allianz points towards two questions that were answered no by Mrs S during the on-line 
application. Those two questions were, had the horse previously shown signs of injury or 
illness, and had he been seen by a veterinary professional for any reason. 
Mrs S complained about the claim decision. Allianz offered £75 compensation for delays and 
poor communication, but it maintained its claim decision. Mrs S remained unhappy, so she 
contacted our service. One of our investigators wasnt persuaded Mrs S knew about the 
tieback when she took out the policy, so she thought Allianz should settle the rest of the 
claim; and pay a further £150 compensation. 
Allianz disagreed with our investigators findings. It also noted Mrs S had answered no to a 
question about the horse having previously been insured, and shes made claims with other 
insurers, for £2,000, on policies taken out in 2014 and 2016. The claims were for an injured 
fetlock, sarcoids, and a tooth root infection. Allianz says those claims show the application 
questions about previous injury and illness; veterinary assistance; and previous insurance, 
werent answered honestly. 
Allianz asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. I issued a provisional decision explaining I intended to uphold the complaint. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Allianz hasnt referred to misrepresentation. But effectively, Allianz is of the view that, when 
Mrs S took out the policy, she made a misrepresentation.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) is the law 
relevant to this case. This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out an insurance policy.
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For a 
misrepresentation to be qualifying, the insurer has to show that if the misrepresentation 
hadnt been made, it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care; and the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
There are two alleged instances of misrepresentation here. The first instance relates to the 
horse previously being insured by Mrs S, and claims for veterinary bills for various injuries 
and illnesses. The second relates to the tieback operation, before Mrs S owned the horse. 
I will address these in turn.
Previous insurance and claims  during Mrs S ownership
I havent seen Allianz has put this alleged misrepresentation to Mrs S. However, if she did 
previously insure the horse, and make those claims, it follows that I dont consider her to 
have taken reasonable care when answering no to the three related questions.
Nonetheless, Allianz needs to show that, if this alleged misrepresentation hadnt been made, 
it would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all. Allianz hasnt provided such 
evidence or made such arguments. 
Therefore, based on the information available so far, the alleged misrepresentation about the 
previous insurance and claims doesnt lead me to the conclusion it was fair, or in-line with 
CIDRA, for Allianz to decline the remainder of the claim.
My final decision may be different if Allianz can show it would have offered cover on terms 
that wouldnt have covered the claim in dispute, or not offered cover at all, had it known 
about:
-Mrs S previous policies (or claims, if a follow up question would have been asked 
about claims during the application process); or
-the various injuries and illnesses, and veterinary attendance, whilst Mrs S owned the 
horse.
As such, I invite Mrs S to comment on her previous claims with different insurers, and to 
explain why she answered no to the three questions about previous injury and illness; 
veterinary assistance; and previous insurance, when taking out the policy.
Tieback operation  before Mrs S ownership
Mrs S says she wasnt aware her horse had undergone a tieback operation when she took 
the policy out. She says she first became aware in November 2019, after it was identified 
during an endoscope. However, Allianz says:
-The first veterinary practice has confirmed that, on 8 November 2019, prior to it 
performing the endoscope, Mrs S told it the horse had undergone a tieback.-The second veterinary practices notes detail that, on referral, on 30 January 2020, 
Mrs S notified the treating veterinary surgeon the horse had undergone a tieback 
during his race career prior to her ownership. 
-A social media post shows Mrs S daughter knew the horse during his race career, 
before Mrs S bought him, due to her employment at the racecourse.
-A tieback is a significant operation, and its something Mrs S would have been made 
aware of when buying the horse.
The clinical note from 8 November 2019, states: Endoscope today  identify tie-back LHS 
and chordectomy. In my view, the note doesnt show Mrs S was aware of the tieback prior 
to the endoscope. The note could equally be interpreted that it was discovered during the 
endoscope, as per Mrs S testimony.
An email from the first veterinary practice to Allianz, in April 2020, states: First time we were 
aware [of the tieback] was at our first endoscopy  history from owner was that it occurred 
before she purchased and when horse in training. However, Im not persuaded the email 
shows Mrs S was aware of the tieback prior to the endoscope. It follows that when Mrs S 
was made aware of the tieback following the endoscope, she would have realised it was 
undertaken whilst the horse was in training, if it hadnt happened during her ownership.
Our investigator also asked the first veterinary practice whether the vet was already aware of 
the tieback before the endoscope, or whether it was discovered during the endoscope. The 
practice confirmed he first saw signs of previous surgery during the endoscope. Whilst 
I accept the response isnt conclusive, in my view, it points towards the tieback being 
identified during the endoscope, rather than the vet being notified beforehand.
The second veterinary practices clinical note, from 30 January 2020, states: The horse has 
a history of a laryngeal tie back However, Mrs S was aware of the tieback following the 
November 2019 endoscope. So, what she later told the second veterinary practice when 
seeking a second opinion about the abscess, isnt evidence she knew about the tieback 
when the policy was taken out.
In respect of Mrs S daughters knowledge, Mrs S has explained her daughter was 17 at the 
time and doing work experience; and her role was limited to mucking out and cleaning tack. 
She says the horses medical history was confidential, and her daughter wasnt allowed to 
handle, ride, or move any of the horses. I accept what Mrs S says here. I dont consider it 
reasonable to assume that a young person doing work experience would have had any 
awareness of the operation.
I also havent seen anything that persuades me Mrs S was made aware of the tieback when 
buying the horse. Mrs S has provided Allianz with a copy of the horses passport, which pre-
dates her ownership and contains medical records, and I havent seen anything in this 
document that shows the horse had previously undergone an operation.
Having considered the arguments made by both parties, on balance, Im not persuaded 
Mrs S had knowledge of the tieback when she took the policy out. This means, Im not 
persuaded she failed to take reasonable care, in respect of disclosing the operation.
This also means, Im not persuaded Mrs S made a misrepresentation about the tieback. So,
I dont consider the actions taken by Allianz to be fair, or in-line with CIDRA.In response to my provisional decision, Mrs S explained:
- Her horse had only ever been insured by the same policy, so Allianz was already 
aware of the previous claims. Mrs S also doesnt remember answering no to the 
question about previous insurance.
- Whenever a vet attended, they asked for a brief medical history before looking at the 
horse, so if the tieback had been known it would have been documented in the 
veterinary notes.
Allianz made the following points:
- Allianz says the evidence shows that facts known to Mrs S werent disclosed; and the 
information provided has been conflicting, and new information has been provided at 
different stages of the complaint. Mrs S didnt inform Allianz of the previous claims, 
and this shows the likelihood of her not providing information she was aware of.
- Mrs S took out policies in 2014, 2016 and 2019. In 2014, Mrs S said she purchased 
the horse in January 2012. In 2016 and 2019, she said she purchased the horse in 
January 2011. Mrs S says she took ownership in 2011, which is either incorrect or 
she had the horse whilst it was still racing. It would therefore appear that the 2012 
date is more likely correct. An incorrect date of birth was also provided for all the 
policies (2005 instead of 2004).
- A note on 7 February 2020, by the second veterinary practice, confirms a discussion 
with the veterinary practice that undertook the tieback. The note explains an implant 
was placed during a tieback in the horses early race career; the implant failed; the 
horse wasnt considered worth continuing with; and there was no history of implant 
infection or removal.
- In terms of the email from the first veterinary practice to Allianz, in April 2020, Allianz 
questions why Mrs S would have specifically told the vet the tieback occurred before 
she purchased the horse and whilst it was in training, if she had no prior knowledge 
of the horses medical history; rather than simply advising she was unaware of it or 
when it happened, and that this was the first time she had known or heard of this 
operation being carried out.
- Allianz says it hasnt been shown the email from the first veterinary practice to our 
investigator which said the vet: first saw signs of previous surgery during the 
endoscope. 
- On 2 June 2020, Mrs S signed a complaint form for our service in which she advised 
she bought the horse in January 2011 as an ex-racehorse straight from the race 
yard. She also said on the form whilst scoping they told me he had a tie-back 
operation some many years previous.
- On 3 June 2020, Allianz sent an email to Mrs S clarifying its reasons for declining the 
claim and it provided her with a social media post that confirmed her daughter had 
knowledge of the horse. Mrs S has only now mentioned that her daughter was 17 
years old at the time and on work experience. Whether work or work experience, 
theres no doubt her daughter knew the horse from that time.
- On 10 June 2020, the second veterinary practice told Allianz that Mrs S was aware 
the horse couldnt whinny, but as a novice horse owner she wasnt aware of the 
significance. Allianz says this was the first time it had been made aware of this.- In our investigators assessment, our investigator stated that Mrs S said she did have 
knowledge of the possibility of previous surgery prior to the 2019 endoscope, as the 
vet nurse had advised her this was why the horse couldnt whinny.
- Allianz says that Mrs S stated it was the vet who told her the horse had undergone a 
tieback whist scoping, not the vet nurse as later mentioned. Allianz says it wasnt 
informed of this until our investigators assessment. 
- Allianzs external consultant equine vet has advised they have no doubt that a new 
owner would have been made aware of the condition at purchase. Allianz says this 
was a significant operation that had failed, and there appears to be no reason why 
Mrs S wouldnt have been advised of this at purchase. Allianz also says it seems 
unusual to purchase a horse without asking for the clinical history or considering 
having a vetting done first. 
- Allianz says the veterinary history wouldnt be in the passport, and there would be a 
separate record. The only medical reference in the passport is from 2004 and the 
vaccinations.
- One of the passport pages shows the owner or representative as Mrs S daughter, 
and the date appears to be 14 January 2010. Allianz suggested a clearer photo be 
provided and an explanation of the entry. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Previous insurance and claims  during Mrs S ownership
Allianz hasnt said it would have offered cover on different terms, or not offered cover at all, 
had it known about Mrs S previous policies or claims, or the injuries and illnesses, and 
veterinary attendance, whilst she owned the horse.
As such, the misrepresentation about the previous insurance and claims doesnt lead me to 
the conclusion it was fair, or in-line with CIDRA, for Allianz to decline the remainder of the 
claim.
Tieback operation  before Mrs S ownership
Its not my view that Mrs S has provided conflicting information during her submissions. 
I accept Mrs S has clarified certain matters at various points, but overall, I consider her 
testimony to have been consistent.
Based on the screenshots provided by Allianz, I accept Mrs S didnt take reasonable care 
when answering no to certain questions during her on-line application, but this in itself 
doesnt show Mrs S was aware of the tieback operation.
Mrs S recalls that she bought the horse in 2011. I agree with Allianz, on balance, its likely 
the horse was purchased in 2012. I say this because, in my view, the 2014 policy is more 
likely to have contained an accurate purchase date given it was taken out closer to that 
event. Also, a passport page appears to show a previous party still owned the horse in 
September 2011. In any event, its not disputed the tieback happened before Mrs S 
purchased the horse.Allianz has highlighted a veterinary note on 7 February 2020, which details a discussion 
between the second veterinary practice and the veterinary practice that undertook the 
tieback. However, this note doesnt show Mrs S knew about the operation when she 
purchased the horse or took the policy out.
Allianz has again questioned why Mrs S told the vet in November 2019, the tieback occurred 
before she purchased the horse and whilst it was in training, if she had no knowledge about 
it. However, my opinion about this remains the same. In my view, it follows that when Mrs S 
was made aware of the tieback, she would have realised it was undertaken whilst the horse 
was in training, if it hadnt happened during her ownership. I also consider it likely that her 
understanding would have been informed by the vet, who would have likely offered an 
opinion on when and why such an operation was carried out. 
Furthermore, the November 2019 note, and the April 2020 email, are brief and lack context. 
They dont show how the discussion between Mrs S and the vet developed and I remain of 
the view that neither shows Mrs S was aware of the tieback before the endoscope.
Allianz says it hasnt seen the email from the first veterinary practice to our investigator, after 
our investigator sought clarity about whether the vet was already aware of the tieback before 
the endoscope, or whether it was discovered during the endoscope. However, the email was 
set out in her assessment, and whilst we can provide a copy to Allianz if it wishes to see it, 
Im satisfied I dont require Allianzs comments on it.
Allianz has pointed towards Mrs S complaint form, in which she said: whilst scoping they 
told me he had a tie-back operation some many years previous. Im not sure of the point 
Allianz is trying to make here. Its clear in the complaint form that Mrs S is referring to the 
endoscope in November 2019. If anything, the complaint form supports she first became 
aware of the tieback during the endoscope.
Allianz says Mrs S has only now mentioned her daughter was on work experience. However, 
I havent seen shes been inconsistent about her daughter. Allianz made assumptions about 
Mrs S daughters role at the race yard, which Mrs S later clarified when writing to us. As set 
out in my provisional decision, I consider Mrs S daughters age at the time of working at the 
race yard, and her role, to be relevant when considering her likely knowledge.  
Allianz has highlighted a letter from the second veterinary practice, which explains that whilst 
Mrs S was aware the horse couldnt whinny normally, as a novice horse owner, she didnt 
understand the significance. Allianz says it hadnt previously been made aware of this 
information, but Im not sure of the point its trying to make. The letter supports Mrs S 
wouldnt have known about the tieback based on the horses ability to whinny.
Im also not sure of the point Allianz is trying to make in respect of what our investigator said 
in her assessment. Our investigator said that, Mrs S had explained the veterinary nurse had 
noted, just before the endoscope, her horse may have had a tieback. This was after Mrs S 
told the nurse the horse never whinnied when distressed. Allianz has made the point that 
Mrs S had previously said the vet had told her about the tieback following the endoscope, 
not the nurse had told her beforehand. However, whether the nurse offered this potential 
explanation before the endoscope and/or the vet confirmed afterwards, isnt important. 
Neither scenario shows Mrs S previously knew about the tieback, and nor are they 
particularly inconsistent versions of how or when she first became aware.Whilst I accept Allianzs external consultant vet is of the view that a new owner would have 
been made aware of the condition at purchase, I havent seen anything that shows Mrs S 
was made aware. I also havent seen anything that suggests, due to the implants failure, 
there were implications for the horses health. So, Allianzs vets comment doesnt, on 
balance, persuade me Mrs S was made aware of the tieback when buying the horse.
I also accept Allianzs point that it seems unusual to purchase a horse without asking for the 
clinical history or having a vetting done first; and I accept what it says about the veterinary 
history not being in the passport. But equally, Mrs S has consistently said she was a 
complete novice and she wasnt informed of any health problems.
Ive also seen the horse had been receiving treatment for the abscess for a couple of months 
before the endoscope. On balance, if Mrs S had known about the tieback, I consider it likely 
that she would have shared this information with her veterinary practice, given the abscess 
was in the same area. I consider it unlikely that Mrs S would have withheld this information, 
to the potential detriment of her horse. 
Allianz says that one of the passport pages appears to show the owner or representative as 
Mrs S daughter in January 2010. However, in my view, the handwritten date appears to be 
February 2020. This is consistent with my earlier observation about a previous party still 
owning the horse in September 2011, and Allianzs observation the horse was likely 
purchased by Mrs S in 2012. 
Also, as I understand it, the tieback was undertaken after January 2010; and its purpose was 
to enhance the horses racing performance. Theres no suggestion from any of the evidence 
that Mrs S or her daughter bought the horse as a racing venture. So, I dont consider it likely 
the handwritten date Allianz points towards is January 2010, as I can see no reason for the 
tieback to have happened after Mrs S or her daughter had acquired the horse.
So, in conclusion, having carefully considered all the submissions and the arguments made, 
Im still not persuaded Mrs S made a misrepresentation about the tieback. As such, I dont 
consider the actions taken by Allianz to be fair, or in-line with CIDRA.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Allianz Insurance Plc should:
- settle the rest of the claim, subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions;
- add 8% simple interesti per annum on the remaining settlement amount, from the 
dates Mrs S paid those bills, to the date of settlement; and
- pay Mrs S £225 compensation for the upset caused (if £75 has already been paid, a 
further £150 will be due)
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman
iIf Allianz Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from any interest paid, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. If requested, Allianz should also provide Mrs S with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so she can reclaim it from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.