DRN-3165298
The complaint
A community interest company, which Ill refer to as A complains that TSB Bank plc treated 
it unfairly by declining its Bounce Back Loan application. 
The complaint has been brought to us by one of As directors, Mr B. 
What happened
A held a business account with TSB. In mid-July 2020, it applied to the bank for a Bounce 
Back Loan. Shortly after As application had been submitted, TSB made the decision to 
decline the application as the bank had decided not to offer Bounce Back Loans to the not 
for profit Charities, Clubs and Societies business sector they felt A was part of.
Mr B didnt think this was fair, so he complained to TSB. He said A had banked with TSB for 
many years and as a community interest company (CIC) they had always made a profit, 
which was then passed onto a related charity so they could continue their work. He also said 
A had been significantly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and asked the bank to 
reconsider their decision. 
TSB didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said their decision to decline As application had 
been correct as A didnt meet their eligibility criteria as they werent providing Bounce Back 
Loans to not-for-profit organisations. 
Mr B didnt agree so he contacted the CIC regulator to ask for their help. The regulator 
confirmed in writing the business structure for CICs, including that they could generate 
income through conventional trading  and make a profit. So Mr B called TSB to provide this 
and asked for the decision to be reconsidered again.  
TSB didnt overturn the decision. They said it was their decision on which sectors to lend to 
and although A was a CIC, it was treated as not-for-profit as they donated any profits they 
made to a related charity. Mr B still thought this was unfair and asked this service to look into 
As complaint. TSB confirmed to our service that theyd previously looked at lending to the 
not-for-profit sector but as a lender they didnt think they could complete the necessary 
checks to a satisfactory standard. So in line with the Scheme rules, theyd decided not to 
offer Bounce Back Loans to this sector.   
Our investigator thought As complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt think it was unfair 
for TSB to decide not to offer Bounce Back Loans to the not-for-profit sector, as they werent 
satisfied as a lender, they could meet the necessary checking requirements. She also 
thought it had been reasonable for the bank to decline As application on the basis of this 
policy, given their close links to a charity. 
However, she thought TSB had given Mr B incorrect information about the reason for As 
declined application - which meant he had sought advice from the CIC regulator and spent 
time trying to get the decision overturned for the wrong reasons. So she thought TSB should 
pay A £150 compensation for the time its director had spent trying to resolve what he 
thought was a misunderstanding on the banks part. 
Neither party accepted our investigators view. TSB didnt think they had done anything 
wrong, so didnt agree to pay any compensation. And Mr B didnt think it was right to say 
thered been any difficulties in carrying out the necessary checks on A, given the information 
would be at TSBs disposal. He also said the compensation wasnt enough for the time hed 
spent trying to get the information to overturn the decision. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it in part, Ill explain why.
Mr B has said he feels it was an unfair decision by TSB not to lend to the not-for-profit 
sector. And for the bank to treat A as part of that sector, even when it does make a profit. I 
recognise why he may feel this way, but I cant reasonably say TSB have done anything 
wrong in declining As application.
TSB told us they initially did look at lending to the not for profit Charities, Clubs and 
Societies sector. But they bank thought they were unable to meet their regulatory obligations 
to an adequate standard due to the structures involved in the not for profit sector. Given the 
amount of checks the bank needed to undertake for Anti-Money Laundering and Know Your 
Customer for these types of organisations, TSB decided it wasnt feasible and decided not to 
offer Bounce Back Loans to businesses in this sector. I think it had discretion under the 
rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme to make such a decision, and given the banks 
explanation, I dont think it was unreasonable. 
Ive looked at the information Mr B has provided about A and I recognise why he feels they 
dont fit into the not-for-profit sector. Hes also explained that A makes profits  but also that 
these are passed on to a closely-related charity. TSB says that As connection with the 
charity meant the bank deemed A to be within the charities, clubs and societies sector. I 
think this was also a matter for the bank to decide and I dont think it was unreasonable. 
Mr B has told us he doesnt think it was fair for TSB to decline As application on the basis it 
was difficult for the bank to complete their checks for the not-for-profit sector - as TSB 
already held the required documentation for A. I recognise why Mr B feels this way, but its 
TSBs decision not to lend to the wider not-for-profit sector so it wouldnt be fair for the bank 
to use this as their eligibility criteria, and then pick and choose whether a borrower should be 
bound by it. In this case, I think TSB applied their criteria fairly, so Im satisfied TSBs 
decision to decline As application on this basis was reasonable.
However, whilst I dont think the decision to decline As application was unreasonable, I think 
TSB caused them inconvenience by providing an incorrect reason. TSB have said their 
website clearly explained they didnt lend to the not-for-profit sector and this was reconfirmed 
in their Final Response Letter. But A does make a profit as a CIC  its just that it passes the 
profits on instead of benefiting from them.  
So I think TSB were misleading in the reasoning given to A, as Mr B was legitimately 
concerned that the bank was declining their application on the basis they didnt make a 
profit. So he set about evidencing and explaining to the bank that A did make a profit, 
including writing to TSB and the CIC regulator and obtaining information from Companies 
House that would support As application as a profitable business. Like our investigator, I think if TSB had been clearer on their reason for declining As 
application, Mr B wouldnt have spent so much time trying to clarify what he felt was the 
banks misunderstanding of As business structure and profits. So I think A was caused 
inconvenience by one of its directors spending so much time and effort trying to provide 
information which wasnt going to change TSBs decision. 
I acknowledge Mr B said he feels the compensation amount offered by the investigator 
wasnt enough for the impact caused. However, as a service we can only make awards to 
the person or business bringing the complaint to us  in this case, A. Whilst I acknowledge 
TSBs error may have caused additional distress and inconvenience to Mr B and the other 
parties involved, I can only look at the impact on A itself as the complainant. So, given the 
circumstances of the complaint, I think TSB should pay A £150 for the inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct TSB Bank plc to pay A £150 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman