DRN-1928849
 
The complaint
Mr H1 and his brother Mr H2, as trustees, complain on behalf of Mrs and Mr Hs (their 
parents) estate.
Mr H1 says their parents were given unsuitable advice by Sun Life Assurance Company 
of Canada (U.K.) Limited, formerly Lincoln National, to take out an Inheritance Tax (IHT) 
Policy as part of their IHT planning.
 
What happened
In my provisional decision of 14 May 2020, a copy of which is attached and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint. 
I said that on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Sun Life said, I wasnt 
satisfied that Mr H1s and Mr H2s parents were made aware that these IHT bonds werent a 
permanent solution to their IHT issues, unless they reinvested the bonds in trust for IHT 
purposes on reversion, rather than just reinvest and live for seven years.
I also said:
"On balance I think Mr H1s and H2s parents probably thought that the reversion process
was just a feature that would allow them to have access to their money if they needed it, 
rather than losing all control over it - as is often the case with putting money in trust for the
benefit of others.
But Ive seen nothing to suggest that their circumstances changed such that they needed 
money from the bonds when they reverted. Instead it seems clear they wanted to re-invest 
the money at the respective reversionary dates most likely because they wanted ongoing 
IHT liability protection.
Although Ive seen nothing specific to say that if they didnt want to access the funds at
maturity the bonds would still be in trust for IHT purposes  notwithstanding the reversionary 
letters that came at least three years after the investment started  Ive also seen nothing to 
suggest that they wouldnt. In other words, I dont think they were made aware that 
reinvesting their money, didnt mean it would remain in trust for IHT purposes, unless they 
took specific measures to ring fence the funds from their estate.
I dont think Mr H1s and H2s parents wouldve wanted to do anything different to how the
bonds were originally set up in trust. Having taken steps to protect their money from IHT, the 
question arises as to why  when they had no apparent use for the money  would they 
willingly allow their money to fall back in to their estate? The suggestion that theyd deliberately do so, knowing their money was no longer protected, doesnt make any sense to 
me.
In other words, the fact that upon maturity they chose to keep the money invested suggests
that they chose to keep the money in trust. As far as I can see there was nothing preventing
them from assigning the money, there was no particular reason why they wouldnt want Mr
H1 and Mr H2 to have the money sooner upon reversion.
If their parents had been advised correctly  in other words told that this would happen
unless they set up another trust  I think theyd set up another trust so that the funds were
exempt from IHT and not simply place it in trust into the estate. Im not persuaded that they
reinvested the money so that any IHT liability that arose from the estate could be paid
quicker as suggested by Sun Life.
I accept Mr H1s account that based upon the 1994 welcome letter, and other documents,
he (and his parents) thought that his parents investment would be completely exempt from
IHT liability if they lived for seven years, and therefore not have to pay any IHT upon 
reversion if they reinvested the money. Despite what Sun Life says so far about this Ive not
seen any evidence that persuades me otherwise...
...I appreciate that Sun Life says Mr H1 shouldve known how the recommendation worked,
but on balance I dont think he did, even though he was also a beneficiary and had an
interest in the funds.
 
Given that Mr H1, was supposed to be the person who knew how things worked, but didnt, 
this doesnt give me any confidence that his parents knew, or ought reasonably to have
known, how the policy worked and what they needed to do in order to continue to keep their
bonds exempt from IHT.". 
 
So I said that Sun Life should pay the IHT liability arising from these bonds reverting back to 
Mrs and Mr Hs estate, subject to proof from H M Revenue & Customs.
Sun Life responded and said that it agreed with my findings and had no further points to add. 
Mr H1 also responded and said that he agreed with the uphold but sought clarification in 
relation to the following: 
Hes supplied a copy of the H M Revenue and Customs tax statement for the entire 
estate but wondered whether this will this be enough.
Hes not sure if this point is important or not, but the valuations of the bonds post his 
fathers passing varies slightly. The gross sum actually paid to the estate by Sun Life 
was £84,869.41. If this figure is used in calculating the tax paid on the bond funds it 
will be slightly different from their calculated sum. 
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of no new evidence my conclusion regarding this complaint, remains 
as set out previously. I think the complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons, and Sun 
Life should pay the IHT liability arising from these bonds reverting back to Mrs and Mr Hs 
estate. 
Im aware that Mr H1 and Mr H2 have already provided evidence from H M Revenue and 
Customs as to the IHT liability which I think should be sufficient, as Ive heard no objection 
from Sun Life. 
I appreciate what Mr H1 says about the valuation of the bonds but Im sure Sun Life will take 
this into account along with the information from the HMRC, and it will let Mr H1 and Mr H2 
know if theres anything else it needs from them. 
 
Putting things right
I think Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should pay the inheritance 
tax liability arising from these bonds reverting back to Mrs and Mr Hs estate, subject to 
proof from H M Revenue & Customs.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
I think Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should pay redress as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H1 and Mr 
H2 to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
 
 
 
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman