DRN-4081856
The complaint
Mr M and Miss S complain that Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Company 
(hereafter Chaucer) unfairly declined their cancellation claim. 
What happened
Both sides are aware of what happened, so Ill only set out the background to this complaint 
in brief. 
Mr M and Miss S had a single trip travel insurance policy underwritten by Chaucer. The 
policy was bought on 19 January 2022 and provided cover between 10 to 25 May 2022; the 
same dates Mr M and Miss S had booked for a trip to America. 
On 8 February 2022 Mr M and Miss S cancelled their trip. They submitted a cancellation 
claim shortly afterwards, and explained Mr Ms pre-existing anxiety had worsened over the 
months that had followed his Nans death in November 2021. 
Chaucer declined the claim. It said Mr Ms Nan had passed away prior to the policy being 
purchased and there was no evidence to show when his anxiety was exacerbated. Mr M and 
Miss S complained and explained that while the grief hadnt affected Mr M immediately, he 
was having numerous panic attacks at the point of cancelling, but Chaucer maintained its 
position. 
Our investigator thought the claim had been declined fairly. They said Chaucer was entitled 
to decline the claim if the exacerbation of Mr Ms anxiety was caused by an event prior to the 
policy being purchased. And, they said they hadnt seen any medical evidence to 
demonstrate that the anxiety was triggered or made worse after the cover start date either. 
Mr M and Miss S disagreed with that opinion and said theyd always used the same 
business for their travel insurance policies, this was the first time theyd needed to claim, and 
they felt let down given what had happened. They asked for the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman too, so the matter is now for me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same outcome as the investigator before me. Ill now 
explain why. 
Chaucer has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly and to not reject them 
unreasonably. The cover available to Mr M and Miss S was detailed in their policy certificate 
and their policy terms and conditions. I wont set out the entirety of those documents here, 
but I can see that the start of their cancellation cover was described in the terms and 
conditions as being:
Period of cover
On single trip policies cover for cancellation starts at the time you book the trip or pay the 
insurance premium, whichever is later. Cover for cancellation ends as soon as you start 
your trip.
The terms and conditions also detailed this exclusion:
General exclusions
 We will not cover the following:
1. ()
2. ()
3. ()
4. Any claim relating to an incident or circumstances which were in the public domain or you 
were aware of, at the time you purchased this insurance, or at the time of booking any trip, 
which could reasonably be expected to lead to a claim.
Chaucer told Mr M and Miss S that it didnt consider the death of Mr Ms Nan to be the 
proximate cause of their claim. Given the timeline of events here I dont think that was 
unreasonable. Mr Ms Nan passed away in November 2021. So, Mr M and Miss S would 
have been aware of that when their policy was purchased some three months later in 
February 2022, and I note their policy had also explained: 
The incident giving rise to the claim must have been unexpected and not something you 
were aware of when you purchased this insurance.   
Chaucer considered Mr Ms anxiety to be the proximate case of the claim. However, it also 
explained that without medical evidence to confirm an exacerbation date it wasnt able to 
consider the claim in relation to the anxiety. I dont think this was unreasonable either.
Mr Ms GP had told Chaucer the illness that made the cancellation medically necessary and 
prevented travel was anxiety, death of grandmother, grandfather at end of life. I appreciate 
Mr M had also told Chaucer that the grief didnt affect his anxiety until the months following 
the death as well. But as far as I understand matters no medical evidence was made 
available to corroborate that, and Mr Ms GP had already explained they were neither 
consulted about nor gave any advice around cancellation of the trip being necessary. 
Mr Ms anxiety was accepted as a pre-existing condition under the policy. But given there 
wasnt any medical evidence to demonstrate when it was exacerbated Im not persuaded 
Chaucer approached this aspect of the claim unfairly either.  
I recognise of course that Mr M and Miss S may be further disappointed by the above. I want 
to highlight that none of my findings are intended to detract from the impact of the grief 
detailed in this complaint  my condolences go out the family. But in all the circumstances I 
cant fairy agree that Chaucers declination was unreasonable. And I hope Mr M and Miss S 
will understand why Ive reached this position.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 Jade Alexander
Ombudsman