DRN-3124705
The complaint
Mrs C complains that MBNA Limited didnt provide her with the service it should have after 
she contacted it make it aware of her circumstances. 
What happened
Mrs C had a credit card with MBNA. In April 2021 she contacted MBNA to say was off work 
and had depression and was concerned she might miss a payment and wanted to seek 
advice. Following this call, she received a letters about the interest being applied to her 
account (even though she says she chose the account as it had 0% interest until September 
2022); missed payments being reported to the credit reference agencies; and that her credit 
limit would be reduced. Mrs C says he hadnt missed any payments and that these letters 
added to her anxiety. She says her mental health hadnt been considered in the dealings 
with her and she hasnt been treated fairly.
MBNA issued a final response letter in June 2021. In response to the issues raised by Mrs C 
it apologised that its letters caused upset and confusion. It noted Mrs C had been sent a 
letter about her account coming off hold and that this would have been confusing given it 
was on a promotional 0% interest rate until September 2022. It said its accounts were 
subject to regular reviews and that based on the information received at the time a credit 
limit decrease was applied.  
Our investigator didnt think that MBNA had done anything wrong by decreasing Mrs Cs 
credit limit and noted this had previously been reduced in January 2021 before Mrs C had 
contacted MBNA about her situation. 
Our investigator considered the letters that had been sent to Mrs C and thought these were 
confusing. She noted that letters were sent on three occasions and understood why these 
had caused Mrs C anxiety and concern about her payments. She said that MBNA had 
confirmed that Mrs Cs account had been well run and that no adverse information had been 
reported to the credit reference agencies. However, she thought MBNA could have done 
more to recognise the impact the letters had on Mrs C and didnt think the apology was 
enough in this case. Our investigator recommended MBNA pay Mrs C £200 compensation. 
Mrs C didnt accept the offer of £200 compensation and asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed. She reiterated that she wasnt treated as an individual at any time by MBNA and 
that her circumstances werent taken into account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has explained that it took a lot for her to contact MBNA in April 2021 to explain her 
situation and her mental health condition. I can see that it would have taken a lot of courage 
and strength to make the call and why, when she felt her situation wasnt taken into account 
in MBNAs subsequent correspondence, she was so upset.
I have noted Mrs Cs comments about her credit limit being reduced. While I understand why 
she was concerned I can also see that a reduction was applied in January 2021 before she 
contacted MNBNA to explain her circumstances. MBNA has explained that it undertakes 
regular reviews of its accounts and this is something we would expect to happen. It is 
MBNAs decision as to who it provides credit to and the amount and I do not find I have 
enough to say that Mrs C was treated unfairly in regard to this part of the complaint.
However, I do find that Mrs C has been caused unnecessary distress by receiving generic 
letters which didnt fully reflect her situation. I have looked at the letters which refer to 
interest being stopped even though Mrs C has explained she had a promotional 0% rate until 
September 2022, missed payments and information being passed to the credit reference 
agencies. MBNA has confirmed that Mrs Cs promotional interest rate wasnt affected and 
that she had managed her account well and no adverse information had been reported. 
While this will be reassuring for Mrs C, I think receiving the letters following her call about 
her circumstances will have caused her distress.
MBNA has apologised for the upset caused by the generic letters and said that it would 
provide feedback regarding this. But given the impact on Mrs C by the information in the 
letters, I do not think an apology is enough in this case. I understand and acknowledge 
Mrs Cs comment about her individual circumstances not being taken into account even 
though she had explained these to MBNA and am sorry to hear of the upset and anxiety this 
has caused her. 
I understand why Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators recommendation of £200 
compensation, but in this case I think this is reasonable. I say this as although I 
acknowledge the upset Mrs C has been caused, MBNA has explained the issue was due to 
the required generic letters being sent and that feedback will be given. It has also confirmed 
that no adverse information has been recorded and Mrs Cs account was in good order, 
therefore I cannot say that Mrs C has been caused any financial loss or that her credit file 
has been adversely affected. Therefore, on balance, while I note Mrs Cs comments, I think 
that £200 is a reasonable amount of compensation for the issues raised.
Putting things right
MBNA Limited should pay Mrs C £200 compensation, as it has agreed, for the upset and 
anxiety its letters caused her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. MBNA Limited should take the actions above 
in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman