DRN-3740176
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that RCI Financial Services Limited trading as Renault Finance (RCI) 
didnt inform him that if he withdrew from his agreement, hed need to repay the dealer 
contribution directly to the dealer.
Mr C has been represented. For clarity, Ive only referred to Mr C throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr C acquired a car under a 49 month hire purchase agreement with RCI on 27 June 2022. 
The car cost around £25,074. The dealer made a contribution of £1,750 towards the 
purchase which reduced the total amount of credit being borrowed by Mr C to £23,324. 
Under the agreement, Mr C was required to make 47 payments of £330.42, followed by one 
payment of £330.58 and a final payment of £10,841.17 if he wanted to keep the car.
Shortly after acquiring the car, Mr C contacted RCI and told it he wanted to withdraw from 
the agreement and settle the finance in full. Following this, RCI wrote to Mr C and said he 
had 30 days from 27 June 2022 to settle the finance in full. It told Mr C he needed to pay 
£23,324 in addition to daily interest of £3.05, which was accruing from the date the 
agreement was signed until the date the agreement was paid.
Following this, Mr C contacted RCI in July 2022 and said he wanted to reverse his request to 
withdraw from the agreement, as the dealer had asked him to repay the dealership 
contribution. But RCI said it couldnt do this. Mr C complained to RCI and said it didnt tell 
him he needed to directly repay the dealer any dealer contribution it had made, if he 
exercised his right to withdraw from the agreement. 
RCI issued its response to Mr Cs complaint and said it had clearly told Mr C that hed need 
to repay the supplying dealer the dealer contribution if he withdrew from the agreement. So it 
didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with this, Mr C referred his complaint to this service. He reiterated his complaint 
and said when he acquired the car, the dealer would only reduce the price of the car if he 
took out a hire purchase agreement. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought that RCI had clearly explained that the 
dealer contribution amount would need to be repaid by Mr C if he withdrew from the 
agreement. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said he was mentally impacted when he was told he had to repay the 
dealer contribution and he was unhappy with RCIs vagueness throughout. 
As Mr C remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. 
What I need to decide in this case is whether RCI told Mr C hed need to repay the dealer 
contribution directly to the dealer if he exercised his right to withdraw from the agreement. If 
it didnt, Ill need to think about whats fair to put things right. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Cs agreement say:
Right of Withdrawal
You have a right to withdraw from this Agreement without having to give a reason. The right 
to withdraw starts on the date of this Agreement and ends on the expiry of 14 days 
beginning with the date after that day.
12.2 You have a right to withdraw from this Agreement in accordance with the rights set out 
under the heading Right of Withdrawal on page 2. If you wish to do so, you must repay the 
amount set out in this section with any other allowances we have made in relation to this 
Agreement, including, without limitation, any finance deposit allowance or contribution and/or 
any other sums or allowances together with interest within 30 days beginning from the day 
after you provide us with notice that you wish to withdraw.
These terms and conditions make it clear that Mr C exercises his right to withdraw from the 
agreement, which he did, hell need to repay any finance deposit allowance or contribution. 
The cash price of the car was £25,074 and the amount of credit provided by RCI to Mr C 
was £23,324. Mr C in his testimony has confirmed he was told hed only be provided with a 
discount on the price of the car if he took out the hire purchase agreement. The agreement 
Mr C entered into confirms hed need to repay a dealer contribution if he exercised his right 
to withdraw from it and so Im satisfied Mr C was made aware hed need to repay the £1,750 
dealer contribution he received when he withdrew from the agreement.
I agree the finance agreement terms and conditions dont make it clear who the dealer 
contribution needs to be paid to if Mr C withdrew from the agreement. But Mr C called RCI 
before he exercised his right to withdraw. Ive listened to this phone call to understand what 
Mr C was told by RCI about the dealer contribution and who it would need to be paid to 
before he exercised his right to withdraw from the agreement.
During the call, RCI told Mr C that if he exercised his right to withdraw from the agreement, 
he would need to pay it directly for the full amount owed. It then told him the dealer 
contribution would need to be paid directly to the dealership. Its exact words were, if your 
finance agreement was subject to deposit contribution you may need to supply this to the 
supplying dealer. 
However, Mr C then queried his understanding of what RCI meant. When he did this, he said 
he was confused and asked RCI about whether he needed to find another way of making a 
payment for the car to the dealership, as he would be making the payment to RCI. But RCI 
correctly told him he would need to pay it instead. This is because it had provided the 
finance under the agreement and was the legal owner of the car until Mr C paid it for it. RCI 
didnt mention the dealer contribution when Mr C queried his understanding and Mr C didnt 
mention the dealer contribution when he queried his understanding. So Im not satisfied that 
RCI provided any incorrect information during the call. 
Overall, Im sorry to hear about the impact to Mr C of being chased by the dealer for 
repayment of the dealer contribution. But because I think RCI provided Mr C with correct 
information about who he needed to repay the dealer contribution to, it follows that I dont 
think it needs to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman