DRN-4201622
The complaint
Mr D complains Lloyds Bank PLC defaulted his loan.
What happened
Mr Ds held an account with Lloyds for some considerable time. Mr D also held a loan with 
Lloyds. Mr D fell into financial difficulties during Covid lockdowns, and Lloyds agreed a Covid 
plan on his loan.
This plan was for the maximum allowable six months, and Mr D didnt need to make 
payments during this period. Interest continued to accrue, but arrears werent built up.
The six-month plan ended in June 2021, but Mr D needed further help with his loan.
Mr D spoke to Lloyds, and it completed an income and expenditure, and it was clear Mr D 
couldnt make payments towards his loan. Lloyds agreed a further three-month plan, where 
Mr D didnt have to make payments to his loan.
Lloyds told Mr D his direct debit would remain active, and try to collect payments, so it 
advised Mr D to cancel the direct debit. And Lloyds told Mr D to call back, before the plan 
expired in September. Lloyds wrote to Mr D to confirm the plan and when it ended.
In this letter Lloyds said Mr D would be behind with payments to his loan.
Lloyds then wrote to Mr D in September 2021 to say his plan had ended and there were 
arrears due on the loan. In the letter, Lloyds asked Mr D to contact it.
Mr D didnt contact Lloyds, so it sent a further four letters, including a default notice, but Mr D 
still didnt contact Lloyds. Lloyds defaulted Mr Ds loan on 10 November 2021.
Mr D complained to Lloyds about the default and felt Lloyds should have contacted him on 
the phone about his default. Mr D thought something as important as a default shouldnt be 
sent out by post, especially when post wasnt as regular as it once was.
Lloyds sent a final response to Mr D, saying it had written to Mr D several times, and posted 
these letters on his online banking. Lloyds said it hadnt made a mistake in defaulting the 
loan so it wouldnt remove the default.
Mr D referred his complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld as Lloyds had, in their opinion, 
done enough to warn Mr D his loan would default. 
Mr D didnt agree, and said he thought Lloyds has acted too quickly in defaulting his loan. 
Mr D had a long-lasting relationship with Lloyds and felt it was unfair to say this relationship 
had broken down to the extent of a default.
A second investigator picked up Mr Ds complaint and assessed Mr Ds complaint again. 
This investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld either, and said they were 
satisfied Mr D had enough warning about the arrears in both a call and the letters.
The investigator felt Lloyds had followed the right process for a default, and didnt ask Lloyds 
to remove the default. 
Mr D said hed been experiencing some difficult personal circumstances at the time of the 
default. And Mr D said the impact of the default was disproportionate when considering his 
previous dealings with Lloyds.
Mr D felt a call, or a text, could have avoided the default, and Lloyds interpretation of the 
rules around defaults was very narrow. Mr D asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has sent in lots of submissions for his complaint, including referencing the Standards of 
Lending Practice, The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) Principles for the Reporting 
of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies.
And Mr D has sent in several letters to outline his concerns at the way hes been treated by 
Lloyds. I dont intend to answer all Mr Ds points, as an informal service I can decide a 
complaint on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
But Id like to assure Mr D Ive carefully read all his submissions and the associated 
guidance, as well as other guidance, rules and regulations around how businesses should 
deal with consumers in financial difficulties.
Mr D initially had a Covid plan for six months. This meant Mr D didnt need to make 
payments to his loan, and arrears didnt build up. Lloyds continued to charge interest, in line 
with this type of plan. But this plan didnt affect the later default of Mr Ds loan.
When Mr D entered the three-month plan, he had a call with Lloyds. Ive listened to this call, 
as did the investigator and Mr Ds been sent a copy.
In this call Mr D runs through his income and expenditure, and its clear he couldnt, at that 
time, make payments to his loan. Lloyds agrees to a plan where no payments are required 
for three months. This plan appears to be exactly what Mr D wanted.
I think Lloyds is clear, in the call, arrears will continue to build up whilst the plan is in place 
and a further plan will be needed at the end to reduce or pay off the arrears. And Lloyds is 
clear the new plan it agrees is different to Mr Ds previous, Covid plan.
I also think Lloyds is clear that failure to pay the arrears building up through the plan, or 
agree a new plan, may mean the loan is closed and a default is applied.
Mr D takes a note of when the plan ends and when he needs to contact Lloyds. Mr D also 
agrees to cancel the direct debit, which it appears he did.Mr D doesnt make any payments to the loan for the next three months, as agreed with 
Lloyds. But Mr D doesnt contact Lloyds when his plan ends.
Mr D has said Lloyds took his contact number as one of the first things during the call. Mr D 
feels Lloyds could have used that number to contact him about the plan ending and 
subsequent default.
In the call, Lloyds says its taking the number for Mr D in case the line drops. I dont think 
there was any agreement to contact Mr D, going forward, by phone.
Because Mr D didnt contact Lloyds, it writes out to him. Ive seen copies of the letters Lloyds 
sent Mr D and notes to show when these letters were sent. Im satisfied Lloyds sent Mr D 
several letters once his three-month plan ended.
And Im satisfied these letters were posted to the right address and added to Mr Ds online 
banking. Mr Ds sent this service copies of some of the letters hes seen online.
A default notice is required to be sent out, in writing, if an account is due to default. This 
requirement is laid out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974, sections 87 to 89. I think Lloyds 
had to send Mr D this notice by post.
And although I agree post isnt always a reliable method, it seems Mr D received some of 
the letters Lloyds sent. With these letters, and the online notifications, I think Lloyds gave 
Mr D sufficient notice he was in arrears on his loan, and it was due to default.
The ICO rules say an account may be defaulted when someone is three months in arrears 
and normally by the time someones six months in arrears. Mr D was three months in arrears 
on his loan when his plan ended, payments had been missed in June, July and August.
Mr D was due to make payments in September and October but didnt. Lloyds defaulted 
Mr Ds loan in November, when Mr D was five months in arrears. I dont think Lloyds 
defaulted Mr D too early, and I think the default was in line with the guidance.
And I dont think Lloyds took too narrow a view of the guidance. Mr D hadnt made any 
payments to his loan for five months and hadnt contacted Lloyds despite the letters it had 
sent out and posted online.
In the circumstances, I think Lloyds applied the guidance fairly. 
I acknowledge Mr Ds long relationship with Lloyds, and it must have been a stressful and 
upsetting time for Mr D. But, in the circumstances, I dont think this long relationship means 
Lloyds should have treated Mr D differently or given him more time to clear the arrears.
I think Lloyds provided appropriate support when Mr D explained he couldnt make payments 
to his loan. In the circumstances, I think Lloyds treated Mr D fairly by agreeing a three-month 
plan where he didnt need to make payments to his loan.
And I think Lloyds gave Mr D enough warning his plan had expired, arrears were present on 
the loan and a default was due to be applied, unless Mr D took action. Lloyds hadnt 
received any payments or contact from Mr D for five months, I think it reasonable for Lloyds 
to look to default the loan.
Mr D mentions his conversation with the complaint handler, prior to the final response being sent. Mr Ds loan had already defaulted. Mr D says Lloyds could, at this point, chosen to 
have reinstated the loan and remove the default.
Lloyds could have chosen to do this, and equally could have chosen not to. In the 
circumstances, Lloyds chose not to remove the default as it felt it had been applied correctly. 
I have to decide whether the decision not to remove was fair.
I realise a default will have a significant, and long-lasting effect on Mr Ds credit file. Because 
of this, Id like to assure Mr D Ive thought very carefully about this effect whilst deciding 
whats fair in the individual circumstances of his complaint.
But, having done this, I dont think Lloyds has treated Mr D unfairly considering the individual 
circumstances of the complaint, so I wont be asking it to remove the default on Mr Ds loan.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman