DRN-3936478
The complaint
C, a limited company complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc caused delays when C initiated 
transfers between its accounts. C also complains that the bank unfairly charged it for foreign 
exchange losses.
C is represented by its directors.
What happened
In April 2022, C initiated a transfer with a value of nearly €2,000,000 from its euro to its 
sterling account. C says the funds didnt transfer as expected, so it initiated further payments 
to move the funds, but these attempts were unsuccessful. 
After multiple attempts, C contacted its HSBC relationship manager and spoke to the banks 
business banking team. C says HSBC couldnt identify why the transfers hadnt completed. 
C then went on to complete the transfer in full by breaking it down into two payments. For 
ease, Ive set out a brief timeline of the transactions at the end of this section.
C complained to HSBC because it had made a loss  the exchange rate for the initial 
transfer was more favourable and C says it lost out on just under £10,000 because the first 
transfer was unsuccessful. Given the latter payments had been successful, HSBC had to 
cancel the initial attempts C made due to a lack of funds and had to reverse the foreign 
exchange deals that had been booked by the bank for these payments. HSBC experienced 
foreign exchange losses because of this and C complained that the bank passed these 
losses onto C.
HSBC couldnt explain what caused the delay, but later pointed to security checks as the 
reason. The bank initially offered C £50 compensation because it recognised that it didnt 
give C clear information on why the initial transfers didnt complete straight away. HSBC 
says that C shouldnt have made further attempts at transferring the funds while the initial 
payment was pending. HSBC didnt agree that it was solely responsible for the losses C had 
to cover and offered to contribute £3,000 towards the costs. C didnt agree and asked this 
service for an independent review of the complaint.
One of our investigators decided that HSBC should cover all of Cs losses  which includes 
the difference in the transfer value because the exchange rate had changed, as well as the 
foreign exchange losses HSBC asked C to pay for. The investigator felt that C acted 
reasonably when it made multiple attempts to transfer the funds and that the bank acted 
unfairly when it couldnt give a clear reason for the delay.
HSBC didnt agree and pointed to its cut-off time for such payments. Because the bank 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Timeline:
Date/Time Value Comments
4 April 2022 15:54 €1,900,000 Referred to as transfer A, 
payment later cancelled.
5 April 2022 12:06 €1,900,000 Referred to as transfer B, 
payment later cancelled.
5 April 2022 12:36 €100,000 Referred to as transfer C, 
successful payment.
5 April 2022 12:59 n/a C called relationship 
manager and spoke to 
business banking team.
6 April 2022 11:05 €1,800,000 Referred to as transfer D, 
successful payment.
My provisional findings
I recently issued my provisional decision. In summary, I said:
C initiated two additional transfers before transfer A had been processed. The 
information C was presented with at the time was enough to inform C that transfer A 
was due to be processed the next day. Moreover, the banks terms indicate that C 
had missed the relevant cut-off time for transfer A to be processed the same day. So 
I concluded that it was unreasonable for C to have attempted further transfers until it 
knew whether transfer A had been processed or that it failed. 
When C contacted HSBC, the bank informed C that the transfers couldnt be 
cancelled but it couldnt explain why there was a delay. C went on to initiate a further 
transfer too, and I concluded that this was unreasonable for C to have done so, given 
the information the bank had provided in the call.
Although Id concluded that the bank hadnt caused any unreasonable delays in 
processing the transfers, I did comment that it was unclear why the initial 
transactions didnt appear on Cs statements, despite HSBC saying that all three had 
been released on 5 April. Only transfer C and transfer D seem to have gone through 
successfully. 
C experienced losses because it couldnt take advantage of the more favourable 
exchange rate that was available when transfer A was initiated. HSBC also passed 
on foreign exchange losses to C because it had to cancel the first two payments. Id 
concluded that these losses werent because of something HSBC had done wrong.
I also acknowledged the lack of clarity offered by HSBC to C around the time, but 
agreed that the compensation offer the bank had put forward was a fair resolution to 
this complaint.
 
HSBC accepted my provisional findings. C accepted it acted with haste when it initiated 
multiple transfers around the same time. However, C put forward a valid query asking why 
transfer C went through successfully, ahead of transfer A and transfer B  despite all three 
being released on 5 April. I asked HSBC to look into this further and informed the bank that Im minded to make an 
award, if it was unable to provide a reasonable explanation. HSBC couldnt provide an 
explanation within the timescale I had set. So Ive moved forward with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part.
In its original submission, HSBC told us that transfers A, B & C were processed as follows:
Transfer A  5 April 2022 17:30, released as per checks
Transfer B  5 April 2022 18:45, released as per checks
Transfer C  5 April 2022 18:49, released as per checks
HSBC hasnt been able to explain why transfer C successfully processed ahead of the 
former transfers, despite being released around an hour later than the first two that C had 
initiated. Without any other reasonable explanation, I can only fairly conclude that HSBC 
incorrectly allowed transfer C to go through ahead of transfer A. Had the bank correctly 
processed transfer A, it seems likely to me that this payment wouldve gone through 
successfully, as C had sufficient funds in its account at the time. 
Transfer D was initiated the day after the first three transfers had been released, but again 
this payment was successful ahead of the others. And this leads me to conclude that 
something went wrong, even though HSBC hasnt been able to explain what this may have 
been.
Had HSBC processed transfer A correctly and allowed it to go through ahead of the latter 
payments, C wouldve been able to take advantage of the more favourable exchange rate 
that was available at the time. C says it lost out on around £10,000 because transfer A 
wasnt processed correctly, so Ill be asking HSBC to reimburse this loss.
Im still of the view that C unreasonably initiated multiple transfers around the same time. 
Had C not done so, it seems to me that C wouldve avoided the costs it incurred when HSBC 
held C liable for the banks foreign exchange losses. Even if HSBC had processed transfer A 
correctly  given that C initiated multiple transfers and that the remaining transfers wouldve 
required cancelling, its likely that C wouldve still been required to cover the banks foreign 
exchange losses. Although I think this is fair, as Ive said, transfer A shouldve processed 
successfully, so I dont think its fair that C covers the foreign exchange loss for this payment 
 even though the payment itself was cancelled. 
For these reasons, Ive decided that HSBCs wrongdoing caused some of the losses C 
experienced. So Im instructing the bank to reimburse C for these losses. 
Putting things right
HSBC shouldve processed transfer A correctly. Because it failed to do so, C was unable to 
take advantage of a more favourable exchange rate. HSBC later cancelled transfer A and 
unfairly passed on the foreign exchange loss to C.
To put things right, HSBC should:
Treat transfer A as if it had processed successfully.Calculate the difference in the exchange rate value C received from transfers C and 
D combined, in comparison to what C wouldve received for transfer A. HSBC should 
pay the value of this difference to C, including 8% interest, calculated from the date 
transfer A was released (5 April 2022) to the date of settlement.
HSBC should refund the foreign exchange loss it passed on to C for transfer A  I 
understand this to be €8,524.84  HSBC should add 8% interest to this, calculated 
from the date it charged C this figure to the date of settlement.
I remain of the opinion that the existing compensation of £50 is fair. So if HSBC 
hasnt paid this to C already, it should now do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint in part. If C accepts, HSBC UK 
Bank Plc should settle this complaint in line with what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman