DRN-2129691
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
In 2010 Mr and Mrs Z took out PPI as part of a total mortgage protection plan (TMPP) to 
protect their mortgage repayments. The policy covered Mr Z in the event of disability and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Mr and Mrs Z disagree so the 
complaint comes to me for a final decision. 
Mr and Mrs Zs main concerns are that during their meeting with a Halifax advisor they 
werent made aware that the PPI was optional and were told they needed PPI. 
Mr and Mrs Z told us they had other ways to pay the mortgage if Mr Z wasnt able to work 
and that they didnt need PPI so it shouldnt have been offered and sold to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Zs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Ive taken carefully into account what they remember. But it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Mr and Mrs Z to recall exactly what was discussed at the time. This means that what 
they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I have to look at 
all the available information and take into account the wider circumstances.  
Halifax sold Mr and Mrs Z the PPI when they took out their mortgage at a Halifax branch.
Theres only limited paperwork from the sale  Halifax cant provide anything signed by 
Mr and Mrs Z to show how they applied for the PPI. But thats not a reason for me to uphold 
the complaint. 
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax normally used around the time 
Mr and Mrs Z took out this cover. And we already know from looking at other cases what the 
usual process was when Halifax sold TMPP. Ive no clear reason to think that Halifax 
wouldnt have followed its normal sales process here. 
It looks like PPI was explained and recommended to Mr and Mrs Z by the Halifax advisor 
they spoke to because Ive seen a record of that discussion. 
And then Halifax wrote to them shortly after this meeting to confirm theyd been accepted for 
cover and set out details of the insurance theyd bought. This welcome pack clearly shows 
that Mr and Mrs Z had taken out mortgage repayments cover. 
The letter starts by saying: Thank you for choosing optional mortgage repayments cover
Under the heading Important Information set out in bold type it says:
This product is optional; it is not a condition of your mortgage. 
Its easy to understand why Mr and Mrs Z mightve forgotten some of these details now as 
they took out this mortgage ten years ago. And I dont know exactly what was discussed with 
the advisor. But, based on all the information Ive seen, I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs Z 
aware the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs Z chose to take it out for Mr Z as part of the 
TMPP package they signed up to.  
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs Z to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable 
for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances when the policy was sold. 
Mrs Z wasnt working so only Mr Z was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and 
the PPI terms and conditions that applied.
Mr Z had some sick pay entitlement through work. But this doesnt mean that Halifaxs 
recommendation was unsuitable. 
The policy wouldve paid out (on top of any work benefits) for up to 12 months per claim if 
Mr Z couldnt work as a result of accident or sickness. I think that couldve been useful as it 
doesnt look like Mr Zs sick pay was guaranteed  he said he had to make up lost hours in 
order to qualify for sick pay. In any event, PPI couldve helped cover any extra costs Mr Z 
mightve had as a result of being too sick or disabled to work. 
As well as this, the policy couldve paid out in the event that Mr Z became unexpectedly 
unemployed. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits from his employer wouldnt have helped Mr Z if he was 
off work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money he mightve 
got if hed lost his job, giving Mr and Mrs Z some additional financial security in those 
circumstances.
And, although Mr Z also had life insurance through his employer, PPI provided a different 
sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances. So this information doesnt make me 
think that PPI wasnt suitable for him. 
Mr Z couldve made repeated claims under the policy giving long term protection for the 
mortgage. 
There was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs Z took out this mortgage that they would always 
have savings to rely on because everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. And it 
looks like they preferred not to spend savings, or they had other plans for that money, since 
they took out this mortgage rather than invest all their savings to reduce their borrowing. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs Z could depend on being able to continue to keep savings 
intact to spend on other things or to provide financial security for the future. 
I've taken into account that Mrs Z had guaranteed pension income each month. But it looks 
like Mr Z contributed the most to the joint household income and the mortgage was taken out 
when he was in paid work. I think its likely that Mr and Mrs Z mightve soon found it difficult 
to keep up the mortgage monthly repayments if Mr Z wasnt able to work. 
So having PPI gave Mr and Mrs Z significantly better cover than they wouldve had if theyd 
just been relying on Mr Zs work benefits. I think this wouldve been important to them at the 
time as the mortgage was a substantial long term commitment they expected to be paying 
for many years. And, looking at Mr and Mrs Zs circumstances at the time, I think the policy 
couldve been useful to them and it was suitable for them. 
Its possible some information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs Z about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But Mr Z wasnt affected by 
any of the usual conditions that mightve limited the policys main benefits. 
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put 
Mr Z off buying PPI.
Cost details were set out in the paperwork Halifax sent Mr and Mrs Z showing what theyd 
have to pay to get the benefit amount they wanted. 
The costs for each part of the TMPP were set out separately and Mr and Mrs Z set up 
payment arrangements at their bank to pay for the policy. So, I think they mustve been 
happy with the PPI cost when they chose to take out the policy. 
And they opted for PPI knowing what their other means were when they had a choice about 
whether to include PPI as part of the TMPP. 
So it appears that Mr and Mrs Z did want to have disability and unemployment cover at the 
time. 
Bearing in mind the cost and the monthly benefit if a successful claim was made I think the 
policy offered Mr and Mrs Z worthwhile benefits. Ive seen nothing to suggest the policy was 
unaffordable for them. 
Overall, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs Z wouldve made a different decision about whether to 
take out PPI if clearer information had been provided.  
This means I dont find that Mr and Mrs Z have lost out as a result of anything that Halifax 
did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ive taken carefully into account everything Mr and Mrs Z have said in response to the 
adjudicators view. But what they say doesnt change my decision as I am just dealing here 
with their mis-selling complaint and looking at how PPI was sold to them in 2010. 
I can see our adjudicator has explained that its up to policy holders to keep their existing 
cover arrangements under review (which Halifax prompted Mr and Mrs Z to do each year). 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z and Mr Z to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman