DRN-2575718
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds (Red Sands) 
decision to decline cover for her pet insurance claim. She wants Red Sands to cover the 
treatment costs. 
All references to Red Sands include agents appointed to act on Red Sands behalf.
What happened
Ms C took her pet dog to the vet in August 2020 as she noticed she was limping. The vet 
examined her and carried out x-rays and said Ms Cs dog would need surgery. The vet then 
carried out surgery. Ms C made a claim for the treatment to her dogs leg but this was 
declined by Red Sands on the basis this related to a pre-existing condition.  
Ms C complained to Red Sands and they responded to say her dogs clinical notes showed 
the condition being claimed for was first noted before the policy started. They didnt uphold 
the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms C. He thought that Red Sands hadnt acted unfairly 
in declining Ms Cs claim. Ms C disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms C will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Ms Cs pet insurance policy. There is a section which refers to claims 
which arent covered under the policy, and under a heading Significant Exclusions or 
Limitations it says: 
Any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing condition(s) or for an accident, 
injury or illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the commencement 
date of the policy or within 14 days of the commencement date.   
The claim for Ms Cs dogs treatment relates to Investigate & treat lameness right back leg. 
Red Sands declined to cover this claim on the basis it relates to a pre-existing condition Ms 
Cs dog had before the policy started. So, Ive looked into whether Red Sands decision is 
fair and reasonable. 
  
Ms C took out pet insurance in 2013 and I can see Red Sands refer to entries in her dogs 
clinical notes which they say relate to the treatment she is claiming for. In 2010 there is a 
note which refers to medially luxating patellas. A later note in 2011 also refers to this. Red 
Sands also refer to entries in the clinical notes in August 2020 which make reference to the 
pre-existing condition. A note made by the vet who carried out the surgery says, On exam 
prior to surgery [Ms Cs dog] presents grade 3 medial luxating patella on her RIGHT stifle 
together with CCL instability. Red Sands say these notes show the claim relates to a pre-
existing condition.      
After Red Sands decline the claim, I can see Ms Cs dogs vet  who carried out the surgery 
- writes to Red Sands to give some background to the reasons for the surgery. The vet says 
Ms Cs dog had acute lameness on her right hind limb due to the rupture of her Cranial 
Cruciate Ligament (CCL). The vet says the clinical findings of swelling and pain were related 
to the CCL rupture and not the pre-existing luxating patella. The vet says, during the 
procedure, it was their own decision to correct the luxating patella in order to stabilise the 
stifle. The vet says, the fact that in Ms Cs dogs case, correcting the luxating patella was 
enough, doesnt make it the primary cause.    
Insurers often appoint experts experienced in this type of work to look at the claim, and thats 
what Red Sands did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Red Sands to rely 
on the experts comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. Following comments 
from Ms Cs dogs vet, Red Sands sought the opinion of an independent consultant vet. And, 
the independent vet provided a report which says: 
Given that this stifle was fully stabilised by correcting the patellar luxation only, using 
surgery that could not have had an effect on cruciate performance, instability here 
was directly attributable to patella ligament issues, not cruciate disease.
The notes refer to the surgery being done with the specific aim being correcting the 
patella luxation. Grade 3 medial luxating patella corrected via Tibial Crest 
Transposition. Also trochleoplasty performed. These claims should be linked and 
treated as patella luxation, I think.  
The report from the independent vet shows they took into account the clinical notes relating 
to Ms Cs dog and they are of the opinion the treatment being claimed for is linked to the pre-
existing condition noted. So, taking this into account, I cant say Red Sands have acted 
unfairly in declining Ms Cs claim. Theyve relied on an experts opinion which has taken into 
consideration all material and relevant information to arrive at a view. And, the view the 
expert has formed is that Ms Cs dog had a pre-existing condition which is linked to 
treatment which is the subject of the claim. I note Ms C says the condition noted in 2010 
hasnt been an issue and her dog hasnt had problems with her legs for ten years. I have 
noted this but nothing I have seen challenges, or otherwise leads me to doubt, the opinion of 
the expert provided by Red Sands. 
I can see Ms C refers to the opinion of the vet who carried out the surgery and, in particular, 
their view that the reason for the surgery wasnt related to the luxating patella. Its clear there 
is a difference in opinion here between the two vets and Ive also taken into account that 
both vets are independent. My role is to decide whether Red Sands have acted fairly and 
reasonably. I think Red Sands have taken fair and reasonable steps to consider Ms Cs 
claim and reached a decision based on expert opinion. And, given that I havent seen any 
evidence to persuade me there has been an error by Red Sands, I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
I note Ms C wants our service to contact the vet who carried out the surgery. Im sorry to 
disappoint Ms C but I dont think thats a line of enquiry we need to make in this case. Ive 
seen Ms Cs dogs vets opinion and also taken that into account in my decision. I can see 
Ms C queries the opinion of the vet instructed by Red Sands as their opinion has been 
based on a review of notes. I do acknowledge that and agree the report has been prepared following a review of notes. But, its important to note that the documents reviewed are Ms 
Cs dogs clinical notes which are a contemporaneous account of her dogs clinical history. 
And, its reasonable for a vet to rely on the clinical notes as being a true and accurate 
representation of what was seen and heard at the time of each consultation.     
Ms C has my sympathy as I can see from her correspondence this has been a very 
upsetting event for her. My role is to decide whether Red Sands have acted fairly and 
reasonably. And, for the reasons I have set out, I think they have so I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman