DRN-2869114
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy with the service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC in respect of her 
mortgage when her husband sadly died in 2018. Ill refer to Ms Ds late husband as Mr A. 
Shes said:
Barclays told her the early repayment charge (ERC) would be waived if she 
redeemed her mortgage, but then charged her the ERC.
She wasnt allowed to pay a lump sum off the mortgage to make it easier to manage.
Barclays didnt check how she would cope with the mortgage, and how she was, 
following her husbands death.
She wasnt able to extend a mortgage payment holiday because a unique reference 
code had been sent to Mr As phone which was no longer operational.
Barclays sent letters addressed to Mr A in the years after his death.
I hope Ms D will accept my condolences for her loss.
  
What happened
Ms D and Mr A took out this mortgage in September 2016 when they bought their property.
In early 2018 they took out a new interest rate product. At that time the outstanding 
mortgage was noted to be about £575,000 and they took a rate that was fixed at 1.92% until 
30 April 2023. The mortgage offer said if the mortgage was repaid before 30 April 2023 then 
there would be an ERC of 3% of the amount repaid.
Mr A sadly died suddenly in August 2018, and Ms D put the property on the market a few 
weeks later. Unfortunately, the property didnt sell until January 2021.
Ms Ds solicitor obtained a redemption statement in December 2020, and Ms D complained 
about the ERC showing on it saying shed been told after Mr A died that the ERC would be 
waived. She also raised other service concerns with Barclays.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint and so Ms D referred matters to us.
Our investigator looked into everything. He said that whilst Barclays had got some things 
wrong, he didnt think those changed anything overall as he felt Ms D would always have 
incurred the ERC. He did, however, say Barclays should pay £250 for the upset caused to 
Ms D by it sending letters addressed to Mr A.
Barclays accepted our investigators findings. Ms D didnt agree and so it has been passed 
to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Ms D wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that 
I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and we look at things independently without 
taking sides. 
Barclays told her the early repayment charge (ERC) would be waived if she redeemed her 
mortgage, but then charged her the ERC.
Its not in dispute that Ms D was told that the ERC would be waived when she redeemed her 
mortgage as she was selling her property due to the sad death of Mr A.
Ms D has said the mortgage offer and terms and conditions document dont state that the 
ERC would only be waived if the mortgage was redeemed in the twelve months following a 
customers death. As our investigator explained, that information wouldnt be in those 
documents as it doesnt form part of Ms Ds mortgage contract, it is just something Barclays 
does on a discretionary basis to try to help recently bereaved customers who might not be 
able to afford the mortgage on their own. 
It isnt a contractual right and so I cant say Barclays must offer that. The contract states that 
if the mortgage is repaid before 30 April 2023 then there would be an ERC. Barclays would 
be within its rights to simply keep to that. Instead, as a way of trying to assist those in need, 
it waives the ERC if a mortgage is repaid within twelve months of a joint borrowers death.
Ms D wasnt given the full picture, as if she had been then she would have been told the 
ERC would only be waived if the mortgage was repaid before August 2019. This is what we 
call a misrepresentation. Barclays gave incorrect information (that is, misrepresented the 
gesture it was willing to make as it didnt explain the ERC waiver was time limited) to Ms D. 
When were looking at complaints about misrepresentation we consider the appropriate 
remedy is to place the consumer in the position they would be in if the incorrect information 
hadnt been given. We dont put them in the position they would be in if the misinformation 
had been correct (that is, that Ms D could redeem her mortgage at any time without incurring 
the ERC), or in a position where theyve gained from this misinformation.
Ms D was told she wouldnt incur an ERC if she repaid her mortgage but wasnt told that was 
only up until August 2019; that was the misrepresentation. Had that not happened she would 
have been given the correct information; that is, if she repaid the mortgage after 
August 2019 then she would incur the ERC as per the mortgage contract. So the appropriate 
remedy is to put Ms D in that position  that is, that there would be no ERC before August 
2019 and an ERC after that point  and then decide what I think she may have done 
differently if she had that knowledge at the time.
Ms D has said she couldnt sell the house any sooner, so she could never have been in a 
position to repay the mortgage in full before August 2019. To that end, the ERC that she 
paid in January 2021 would always have been due as the mortgage hadnt been redeemed 
before August 2019. Ms D has been clear that she needed to sell the property so it seems  on balance  the outcome would most likely have been the same; Ms D would have sold the 
property in January 2021 and incurred the ERC.
Were not the regulator so it isnt my role to fine or punish Barclays if its staff give the wrong 
information, or arent aware of all its policies and processes. Ms D could never have been in 
the position where she repaid her mortgage after August 2019 but before 30 April 2023 
without incurring the ERC for doing so. For that reason, I cant uphold this part of her 
complaint as she was correctly charged the fee.
She wasnt allowed to pay a lump sum off the mortgage to make it easier to manage.
Ms D has said she wasnt allowed to pay a lump sum off her mortgage when she asked 
about doing so in branch.
It isnt entirely clear what happened here or exactly what was said, as matters have got 
confused with the ERC issue Ive covered above. To that end our investigator asked Ms D 
some questions about this issue.
It would seem unusual that Ms D was told she couldnt pay a lump sum off her mortgage as 
that is a fairly normal transaction that Id expect a member of branch staff to know could be 
done, so it may be there was confusion here as Ms D, when answering our investigator said:
 Barclays did not allow me to pay this money back, they were extremely curt with me and 
the only explanation was that I had taken over a year since my husbands passing to pay 
it back.
I can only guess at what might have happened, and it may be that Ms D and the branch staff 
member were talking at crossed-purposes, with the staff member saying the sum couldnt be 
paid off without an ERC being incurred, and Ms D thinking they were saying the sum couldnt 
be paid off at all. 
Ms D has also provided us with some snippings from the terms and conditions of her 
account, making reference to these as part of her complaint. One of those snippings states:
If you wish you can repay the whole or part of your loan before the end of the mortgage 
term.
Ms D has then included a snipping of the section relating to a full repayment of the 
mortgage, but not the part that explains about repaying part of the mortgage. Having 
considered everything Im satisfied that it would have been clear from the terms and 
conditions document that Ms D could repay part of the mortgage if she wanted to do so 
(albeit she would incur an ERC for doing so). Theres also a section on Barclays website 
about how to overpay a mortgage, which explains a one-off overpayment can be made by 
online banking, or via the Barclays app.
Ms D has made reference to the fact this happened over a year after Mr A died so, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, an ERC would have been incurred on the amount Ms D 
repaid; after August 2019 she couldnt have paid off around £250,000 without being charged 
an ERC.
As I explained above, our investigator asked Ms D some questions about what happened, 
one of those questions being what she would have done if shed been told she could pay 
£250,000 off her mortgage, but that she would incur an ERC if she did so. Ms D replied that 
she wouldnt have made the payment.Putting everything together, I cant be sure if Ms D was given incorrect information or 
whether this was just a misunderstanding. But in any event it seems, on balance, that Ms D 
wouldnt have done anything differently. Thats because, by her own admission, the point 
she asked about paying £250,000 off was after August 2019 so she would have been 
charged an ERC, and shes said she wouldnt have made the payment if shed been told she 
would incur an ERC. For that reason I cant uphold this part of her complaint.
Barclays didnt check how she would cope with the mortgage, and how she was, following 
her husbands death.
Barclays wrote to Ms D on 19 September 2018, following the notification of Mr As death. In 
that Barclays said:
It would like to offer its sincere condolences to Ms D.
It understood it was a very difficult time for Ms D and it wanted to continue to help 
and support her. It said if she was worried about making her mortgage payments 
then she should get in contact and it would look to offer further assistance to her.
Its bereavement guide How we can help you at this difficult time was available 
online or in branch if Ms D needed it.
Barclays didnt need to do any more than this. Whilst Ms D would have liked further contact, 
another bereaved person might have found further contact or questions intrusive. If Ms D 
needed any further support, or felt she needed help with the mortgage then she could 
contact Barclays to discuss that, the options to contact the bereavement team could be 
found within the guide Barclays made reference to. For the reasons given I dont uphold this 
part of Ms Ds complaint.
She wasnt able to extend a mortgage payment holiday because a unique reference code 
had been sent to Mr As phone which was no longer operational
Its not clear what went wrong here as Barclays has said the only mobile phone number 
registered on Ms Ds account is hers. In any event, as our investigator explained Ms D could 
have resolved this situation by phoning Barclays. Whilst I understand Ms D was going 
through a very difficult time, and it is likely phone lines were busy at the time with other 
customers that also needed financial assistance, Barclays can only do something about an 
issue if it is made aware of it.
Ms D had a way to benefit from another payment deferral period if she needed to, and that 
was to phone Barclays to arrange it. I cant hold Barclays liable for Ms D not receiving a 
second payment deferral period as it didnt have the chance to try to put this right for her. In 
any event, if shed had a second payment deferral period then the redemption balance of her 
mortgage in January 2021 would have been higher by an equivalent amount.
Having considered everything I cant uphold this part of Ms Ds complaint.
Barclays sent letters addressed to Mr A in the years after his death.
I can understand how distressing Ms D would have found it receiving letters from Barclays 
that were addressed to Mr A. Im sorry she had to go through that.
Our investigator has suggested that Barclays should investigate what went wrong here. 
Whilst I cant order Barclays to do that as Im not the regulator so it isnt within my remit to do 
so, I would suggest to Barclays that it warrants an investigation if it hasnt already conducted one. To be clear, however, it is up to Barclays whether or not it acts on that suggestion as 
Ive no power to order it do. 
What I can do is order Barclays to pay some compensation to Ms D for the distress caused. 
But, as Ive previously explained, Ive no power to fine or punish a business, and our awards 
arent punitive. No monetary amount can undo what happened, or take back the distress that 
was caused to Ms D.
Our investigator recommended a sum of £250 be paid. Ms D didnt accept that saying:
I do not feel that the sum of £250 is anyway near adequate for past experiences bearing 
in mind that Barclays hand out £100 compensation for trivial complaint matters (example 
long waiting on the phone) and the longevity and complexity of my complaint - I would like 
this point also to be escalated within your organisation and a more suitable compensatory 
value applied given that I am also a Premier Barclays Customer.
As our investigator explained, Ms Ds standing as a Premier customer has no bearing on any 
award wed make here. Otherwise wed be potentially awarding higher compensation based 
on a persons financial status, and Im sure Ms D can understand how inherently unfair that 
would be. The net worth of a person has no bearing on how distressing theyd find receiving 
a letter addressed to their deceased spouse. 
Im not considering the past experiences or longevity and complexity of Ms Ds complaint, 
as the only point Ive upheld and therefore am considering redress for is the letters being 
sent to Mr A. I cant comment on the compensation Barclays may have paid for other issues. 
All Im doing is looking at what happened here. Having done so, whilst Ive a great deal of 
sympathy for Ms D, I agree with our investigator that a payment of £250 is fair and 
reasonable for the issue of the letters being sent to Mr A.
In summary
Id like to reiterate my condolences to Ms D, and I hope shell accept my best wishes for the 
future. Having considered everything, the only point Im able to uphold is that relating to the 
letters sent to Mr A and for that I order Barclays to pay £250 compensation.
 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £250 compensation 
to Ms D.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman