DRN-2126682
The complaint
Miss S has complained about her furniture warranty provider Amtrust Europe Limited 
because it declined her claim made for cat scratches on her sofa.
What happened
Miss S had a warranty for her sofa. She thought it covered her for unlimited pet damage. 
She made a couple of claims and repairs were completed. On 27 November 2019 she 
noticed some new damage had occurred. She completed a claim form and submitted it 
along with some photos.
A claim was created by the insurer on 12 December 2019. Miss S was initially offered a visit 
on 20 December 2019 but this was unsuitable for her, the next available appointment was 
2 January 2020.
The technician attended and took photos. He noted that Miss S said the cat keeps 
scratching the sofa. Amtrust considered the claim and declined it on the basis the damage 
claimed for hadnt resulted from a one-off incident. Miss S objected  she said it had been 
just one instance when she made the claim but more damage had occurred during the delay 
in the assessor attending. Miss S said Amtrust had tried to decline her two similar previous 
claims for similar reasons but then had accepted them. When Amtrust wouldnt change its 
view on this claim Miss S complained to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Amtrust had unreasonably 
delayed the visit. Further, given Miss Ss apparent lack of understanding of what she was 
covered for, that there had been previous similar claims and that further damage had been 
caused during the time that had passed before the visit, she felt it was unlikely that the 
damage claimed for on 27 November 2019 had resulted from a one-off incident. 
Miss S left a voicemail for the investigator explaining she was unhappy. Our investigator 
asked Miss S to talk about her concerns or email us with them so we could better 
understand her position. Despite several attempted calls to Miss S and the investigator 
sending her further emails, no detail was received from Miss S. The complaint was passed 
to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss S feels the damage she noticed on 27 November 2019 happened in 
one instance. I accept that she made what she felt was a genuine claim as covered by the 
policy. But Ive seen the photos she took in November and the ones taken by the assessor in 
January. It is clear further damage occurred. Whilst I note Miss S said she tried to prevent 
that and her attempts were just unsuccessful, that fact does suggest the sofa is always 
suffering from continued and repeated episodes of damage. As does the fact of two previous 
claims for similar damage. 
Thats not to say if you spilled paint on the sofa whilst painting the ceiling, and then again 
when painting the walls, for example, that you couldnt claim for both. But that is not the 
same as a pet with access to furniture that is in the habit of scratching at it. Which seems to 
be the case here. 
Im not persuaded that if Amtrust had attended any sooner the outcome would have been 
any different. In any event Amtrust seems to have acted within a few days (a working week 
at least) of the claim arriving on its system and it doesnt surprise me that, at that time of 
year, there was a limited availability for appointments.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Miss S but Im satisfied that, in this 
instance, Amtrust acted fairly and reasonably when it declined her claim. Im not going to 
make it revise that position. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Amtrust Europe Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman