DRN-3588625
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) provided him with loans he 
couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Nat West provided the following loans to Mr B. 
Date Amount Total to repay Duration Monthly 
payments
March 2014 £5,700 £7,987.20 40 months £199.68
May 2014 £1,850 £2,266.80 20 Months £113.34
October 2018 £1,750 £2,275.20 24 months £94.80
June 2019 £5,900 £7,390.80 24 months £307.95
November 2019 £8,100 £8,409.69 27 months £311.47
November 2021 £14,950 £17,822.67 39 months Not provided
Mr B said that all of the loans were unaffordable, and that Nat West were therefore 
irresponsible to provide the credit.
Nat West disagreed. They say that when they approved each loan application they used a 
combination of credit reference agency, computer modelling, and self-reported information to 
assess the applications. They also saw Mr Bs bank statements as he banked with them and 
they were aware that loans were being provided to consolidate other credit commitments. 
They said that in all instances the evidence suggested Mr B would have sufficient disposable 
income to afford the loans they were providing.
Our investigator agreed with Nat West, but Mr B didnt. He accepted that the November 
2021 loan was affordable as hed received a significant promotion, but he didnt think the 
loan provided in November 2019 could be considered affordable as he said it was provided 
just a few months after Nat West had approved lending of £7,390. He said at that time his 
income was only £1,570 per month and his indebtedness was growing, partly because Nat 
West had also approved two new credit cards around that time. He said he wanted to appeal 
the November 2019 lending decision to an ombudsman.
The complaint has therefore been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr B has explained that he only wants me to consider the lending decision Nat West made 
in November 2019. 
I think Nat West completed reasonable and proportionate checks before they approved the 
loan. They reviewed Mr Bs credit file, assessed his performance on the loans theyd 
previously advanced, and gathered some information from Mr B about his income and 
circumstances. Nat West noted that Mr B was living with his parents and had no housing 
costs or dependants. They understood his income was about £1,570 and used statistical 
methods to estimate his expenditure. Having done so they decided that Mr B had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the loan and they didnt see any signs of financial distress on his 
credit file that may have suggested it was unwise to advance further credit.
Ive reviewed the information that Nat West had available to it and I dont think they were 
wrong to advance the credit. Mr Bs performance on his other credit commitments had been 
good. There were no missed payments, defaults, or County Court judgments on his credit 
file. His credit commitments had increased in the last few months and the credit available to 
him on his credit cards and overdraft was now about £7,850. 
The FCA's Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) applies to all credit-related regulated 
activities. Its section on Creditworthiness and Sustainability said at the time Mr B applied for 
this loan, that when considering whether credit was affordable a lender must assume the 
consumer draws down the entire credit limit available to them and it may consider the 
consumer repays that amount by instalments over a reasonable period. If Mr B had drawn 
down the whole credit limit and repaid over a reasonable three year period the instalments 
would have been about £220 a month. 
Mr B also had monthly credit commitments of about £64 towards insurance and a small loan.  
Adding the monthly payments on this new loan to his other monthly credit commitments and 
considering repayments towards the maximum draw down of the credit limits available to 
him, I think the information suggested Mr Bs outgoings to credit were in the region of £595 
per month.
Nat West used statistical means to calculate Mr Bs expenditure would be about £600 a 
month. I dont think the bank statements that would also have been available to them at the 
time would have increased that figure and Mr B didnt have housing costs or typical 
household bills as he was living with his parents.
All told I think those figures would suggest Mr B had sufficient disposable income to be able 
to afford this loan sustainably.
Ive considered whether Nat West should have taken account of the fact that Mr Bs reliance 
on credit had increased in recent months, but I dont think the additional credit applications 
should have been of concern at the time as I can see Mr Bs disposable income still 
represented quite a large proportion of his earnings. Bank statements would also have 
shown that Mr B was managing to maintain a positive balance at the end of each month.Overall, Im therefore not persuaded that Nat West were irresponsible when providing this 
credit and Im not asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman