DRN-2761673
The complaint
Mr C complains about the charges he was invoiced by PSA Finance UK Limited when he 
voluntarily terminated his conditional sale agreement.
What happened
Mr C obtained a second-hand car through a five-year conditional sale agreement with PSA 
in April 2018. In or around August 2020 he decided to voluntarily terminate the agreement 
and PSA arranged for the car to be collected. The car was inspected by PSAs agent and the 
following damage and missing items were identified:
Incomplete service history £200.00
Locking wheel nut key/nut missing £44.57
Remote key missing £100.00
Abort fee £135.00
Left front alloy wheel damage £65.00
Left rear alloy wheel damage £65.00
Total £609.57
Mr C disputed the charges. He said hed never been supplied with a locking wheel nut key or 
a second remote key; that he had evidence that the car had been serviced; that the abort fee 
was wrong; and that the car was second-hand when it was supplied to him, so had already 
been subjected to wear and tear.
PSA said the cars service book had not been stamped and that the damage to the alloy 
wheels had been clearly evidenced as outside of fair wear and tear. It said it would review 
the charges for the missing items if Mr C provided evidence that they hadnt been supplied to 
him. PSA agreed to remove the cost of the abort fee as it thought this had been unfairly 
charged.
Mr C referred his complaint to this service and said he reluctantly agreed to the charge for 
the incomplete service history  although the car had been serviced, hed failed to make 
sure the garage stamped the service book. He continued to dispute the remaining charges 
but explained hed paid the invoice (reduced to £474.57), to stop any debt collection 
proceedings.
Our investigator didnt recommend that he complaint should be upheld, concluding that PSA 
hadnt invoiced Mr C unfairly.
Mr C didnt agree. He said, in summary that:
He only received one key for the car and didnt receive a locking wheel nut. PSA told him 
he wouldnt be charged for items that hadnt been supplied.
He wasnt given anything to show what was supplied with the car; he shouldnt be 
charged for something PSA cant evidence were supplied, just as he cant evidence the 
key and locking wheel nut werent supplied.
The car was inspected as if it was supplied new but it was second hand when he 
obtained it.
He has not been treated fairly by the business, or by our investigator.
PSA referred the debt to a debt collection agency, even though it knew Mr C had 
referred his complaint to this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion of our investigator for these reasons:
Mr C reasonably knew he would be charged for any damage or missing items when he 
voluntarily terminated the agreement. He was able to fix any damage, or replace any missing 
items, before he returned the car.
Hes accepted the charge for the incomplete service history  reluctantly accepting that it 
was his responsibility to ensure the garage stamped the service book.
The inspection found evidence of scratches, scuffs and damage to two of the alloy wheels. 
Im satisfied from the photos that this damage exceeded the British Vehicle & Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. Mr C says the car was second hand 
when it was supplied to him so would have already been subject to wear and tear. Ive 
considered this carefully. The car was more than four years old when it was supplied to him 
and had been driven more than 30,000 miles. But Ive not seen anything to evidence that 
there was any damage to the car when it was supplied, or that any existing wear and tear 
exceeded BVRLAs fair wear and tear guidance. For this reason, I think its more likely than 
not that the damage to the two alloy wheels occurred while the car was in Mr Cs 
possession. It follows that I think PSA has acted fairly in invoicing Mr C for the two charges 
of £65.
Turning to the charges for the two missing items, I am aware Mr C feels particularly strongly 
that hes been charged unfairly for these. Its standard practice for a car to be supplied with 
two keys and, depending on the age of the car, with a locking wheel nut. It wouldnt have 
been possible to change the tyres without a locking wheel nut, so I think its more likely than 
not that this item would have been supplied when Mr C obtained the car. 
PSA offered to review its charges if Mr C was able to provide evidence that he had never 
received a second key and a locking wheel nut. Unfortunately, hes been unable to supply 
this evidence. Whilst I sympathise with his position, I have to be fair to both parties here and 
I dont think PSA has acted unfairly for charging Mr C for missing items which are generally 
supplied with a car as standard.
PSA sent Mr C a notice of default letter in September 2020 and Mr C says he was contacted 
by a debt collection agency. I dont find there was any obligation on PSA to suspend its debt 
collection activities whilst this service was investigating Mr Cs complaint. I note Mr C paid 
the invoice to prevent any further contact about it.
Im aware Mr C will be disappointed with my decision and hes said he will continue to 
pursue this matter. He can of course choose not to accept my decision it if he wants to 
pursue this matter through the courts.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman