DRN-1519819
The complaint
Miss R complains that the terms of a finance agreement she entered with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited were misrepresented.
What happened
In January 2017 Miss R paid a £500 deposit and signed a vehicle order form for a 24 month 
agreement with monthly payments of £233.
In February 2017 Miss R attended the dealership to collect the car and signed a hire 
agreement.
Miss R contacted the dealership before the end of the term to find out what was happening 
regarding inspection and collection. The dealership referred Miss R to VWFS who advised 
her that the agreement was 36 months and that the car wasnt due to be collected until the 
following year.
Miss R says she never intended to enter into a 36-month agreement and that she had 
already entered into another agreement for a new car thinking she was returning the old car 
after 24 months. She complained to VWFS.
VWFS said that although the vehicle order form stated 24 monthly payments of £233, the 
finance agreement stated 36 months. It said the agreement was binding and rejected the 
complaint.
Miss R remained unhappy and complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought it was more likely that Miss R wanted a 
234 months agreement. He recommended that VWFs end the agreement and pay 
compensation.
VWFS didnt agree. It said the agreement was legally binding and that Miss R shouldve read 
it before signing it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill focus on the circumstances at the time the agreement was incepted. Im unable to say 
what was discussed verbally. But one of the reasons why regulated credit agreements are 
put in writing is to obtain a record of what was discussed at the time.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer into entering as 
contract causing loss to be suffered. Ive considered what is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
On Miss Rs first visit to the dealership she signed, amongst other things, a vehicle order 
form. The form refers to a 24-month agreement. And Miss Rs testimony  which has been 
consistent throughout  is that she discussed a 24-month agreement with the dealership.
Miss R didnt sign the finance agreement until she returned to the dealership the following 
month to collect the car. The agreement states that it is for 36 months.
I would generally expect a consumer to read an agreement before signing it. Indeed, this is 
the point which VWFS has made. However, I think the circumstances of this case are 
different. 
Im persuaded that Miss R had asked for a 24-month agreement when she ordered the car. 
The vehicle order form supports this. As against that background, I dont think Miss R had 
any reason to think that the finance agreement would say anything other than 24 months. 
Neither VWFS nor the dealership has provided any explanation for the difference between 
the vehicle order form and the agreement. I think its likely that the dealership made an error 
in the proposal for finance when the agreement was requested from VWFS.
Taking all the circumstances of the case into consideration, I think its likely that the 
salesperson told Miss R she could enter into an agreement for 24 months. The vehicle order 
form supports this as does Miss Rs version of events.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Miss R wouldve entered into the agreement if she 
hadnt been led to believe that it would be for 24 months. Because of this I think theres been 
a misrepresentation.
Putting things right
Miss R has said that the car has been collected now but that shes received arrears letters 
and her credit file has been affected. As far as Im aware, Miss R hasnt paid the arrears.
The remedy for misrepresentation is to put the consumer back in the position they would be 
in had the misrepresentation not been made. 
So, I think VWFS should end the agreement and collect the car (if it hasnt done so already) 
and remove any arrears which accrued after the first 24 months. It should also remove any 
adverse information from Miss Rs credit file and pay compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
must:End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the car at no cost to Miss R
Remove any arrears which accrued after the first 24 months of the agreement
Remove any adverse information from Miss Rs credit file
Pay compensation of £150
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman