DRN-1549937
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has turned down a claim he 
made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr S made a claim on his home insurance policy for a laptop and watch he 
said were stolen from his home. 
RSA asked for information about the stolen items. It asked Mr S if he could provide proof 
hed owned the items hed claimed for. It appointed an investigator to look into the claim. 
Mr S didnt have any receipts to show hed owned the items. He said hed bought the laptop 
and the watch from people he knew, but he didnt know their names and couldnt get in touch 
with them. He didnt have any photos of the items, and he didnt have any serial numbers or 
guarantees etc. He did have the box for the watch, but he wasnt happy to send this onto 
RSA because he didnt want RSA to keep it. He was able to provide evidence of a money 
transfer of around £1250, but not of any cash withdrawals for the amounts he said hed paid 
for the items.
The claim for the watch was withdrawn. And RSA turned down Mr S claim for the laptop. It 
didnt think hed provided enough evidence to show he owned the laptop. Mr S wasnt happy 
with RSAs decision. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy clearly 
stated that RSA might ask for evidence to prove ownership of an item. He didnt think Mr S 
had provided enough evidence to show hed owned the laptop or watch. So he thought it 
was fair for RSA to turn down Mr S claim.
Mr S disagreed. He didnt think the investigator had listened to him. He said he hadnt 
withdrawn the claim for the watch  RSA had withdrawn it. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think it was fair for RSA 
to turn down Mr S claim. Ill explain why.
Generally, its for a policyholder to show theyve suffered the loss of or damage to something 
they owned and that that loss is covered by the terms of their policy.
In this case, Mr S claimed for the theft of items from his home. Theft is something thats 
covered by Mr S policy. But in order for Mr S claim to be paid, he needs to show, on balance, that he owned the laptop and watch hes claiming for.
I think Mr S policy is quite clear about the type of information RSA might need when its 
considering a claim. It says, in the Claims Conditions section of the policy:
To help us deal with your claim quickly; we may need more information. This could include:
Original purchase receipts, invoices, instructions
Booklets or photographs, bank or credit card statements, utility bills, prepurchase 
surveys, or plans or deeds of your property.
 
I also think the policy is clear that if a policyholder cant meet these conditions, a claim might 
not be paid or settlement might be reduced. Ive thought about both items Mr S has claimed 
for to decide if I think it was fair for RSA to conclude it didnt have enough evidence that Mr S 
owned the laptop and watch.
The watch
Both sides accept this part of the claim was withdrawn. RSA says Mr S withdrew it because 
he wouldnt be paid out more than £2000 for it. Mr S says RSA withdrew it. The notes Ive 
seen do suggest that Mr S let RSA know he wanted to withdraw his claim for the watch.
But I dont think its important which party withdrew the claim. Mr S didnt have a receipt for 
the watch. He also didnt have a guarantee for it, and he doesnt know the serial number. He 
said hed bought it from someone he didnt know, so he couldnt provide evidence that hed 
bought the watch. He hasnt provided RSA with any evidence of a withdrawal of cash from 
his account for the amount he says he paid for it. And Mr S doesnt have any photos of 
himself wearing the watch, which mightve shown he owned it.
Mr S does have a box for the watch. RSA offered to send Mr S a pre-paid envelope so he 
could send the box to it to be assessed by an expert. I wouldve expected RSA to consider 
this type of evidence of ownership, so Im pleased to see it did so here. But Mr S chose not 
to send the box in, because he didnt want RSA to keep it and because of the sentimental 
value of it. So I dont think RSA had the opportunity to consider this evidence when looking 
into whether to settle this part of the claim.
The watch was a high value, luxury item and I think RSA was entitled to be satisfied that Mr 
S owned it.  Based on all Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for RSA to conclude Mr S 
hadnt provided enough evidence to show hed owned the watch.
The laptop
Mr S told RSA that hed bought the laptop from someone he wasnt able to get in touch with. 
Hed bought it without a charger, and he didnt have a receipt. Again, there were no photos 
of the laptop to show Mr S had owned it. He said hed paid around £2200 for it  hed paid 
for some of it from his bank and some by cash. Mr S did provide RSA with information from 
his bank showing hed made a bank transfer of around £1250. But theres no information to 
show who the transfer was being made to or what it was for.
Sometimes, evidence of a bank transfer might be enough to show a policyholder owned the 
items theyve claimed for. But in this case, given the lack of detail about what this payment 
was for or who it was going to, taken together with the lack of evidence of a corresponding 
cash withdrawal, I dont think its enough to show Mr S owned this item. All in all, I dont think Mr S had provided RSA with enough evidence to show, on balance, 
hed owned the laptop. So I think it was fair for it to decide not to pay out for this item.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr S position, I think it was fair for RSA to decide he hadnt 
provided it with enough information to substantiate his claim. So I think it was fair for RSA to 
turn it down. This means I wont be telling RSA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman