DRN-2786186
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Very didnt refund 
her for an item bought on her credit account and then returned.
What happened
Mrs W ordered an item from Very on 19 November 2019 which arrived on 21 November. 
She says she decided to return the item as she thought she might be able to get a better 
price elsewhere. She says she completed the returns form and returned the item sealed in 
its original packaging. Her account was credited with the cost of the item on 29 November at 
which point Mrs W thought the return was complete.
However, Mrs W then checked her account and found she had been charged for the item on 
2 December. She contacted Very and says she was told the item hadnt been returned 
correctly and would be sent back. Mrs W received the item and says that the seal had been 
broken, the box had been opened and the items unwrapped. She thought this strange but 
then returned the item again as instructed. Mrs W was then away for a month and on her 
return contacted Very and was told that the issue was under investigation as the item had 
been used and the serial numbers didnt match. Mrs W says she explained she had not 
opened the item and hadnt previously been told about the serial numbers. She was then 
told that the item had been disposed of and that her complaint wasnt being upheld. Mrs W 
says it is unfair that she is being required to pay for an item she doesnt have.
Very issued a final response letter in February 2020. It said that the order was placed on 19 
November and a credit applied on 29 November but that the credit was reversed on 
2 December following an inspection. It said that the inspection found that the box had been 
opened and the item used and that the serial number didnt match. Because of this it said it 
was unable to accept the return.
Very said it explained to Mrs W that she had six weeks to request the return of the item and 
that as this didnt happen the item was disposed of.
Our investigator noted the conflicting evidence provided in this case. He said that the 
evidence from Very showed the item had been opened and used when it was returned as 
well as having a different serial number and therefore he didnt think he could say Very acted 
unreasonably by not accepting the return. He said that Mrs W was told after the second 
return that the return wasnt being accepted and was then notified that if she didnt request 
the return of the item within six weeks it would be disposed of. Therefore, he didnt uphold 
this part of Mrs Ws complaint.
Our investigator did say the information provided to Mrs W when she called in December 
2019 was at times confusing and she wasnt given the specific reason why her return wasnt 
being accepted. She was then told to write a letter to explain the missing parts which he 
didnt think was right as the case notes showed the return wasnt being accepted. Therefore, 
he thought the service Mrs W was provided with wasnt as it should have been and 
recommended Very paid her £25 because of this.
Very accepted our investigators recommendation. Mrs W didnt. She said she had paid a lot 
of money for an item she doesnt have because Very disposed of it.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mrs W received the item she had ordered on 21 November and provided proof of 
returning an item at just after two oclock on 21 November. This gave Mrs W very 
little time to use the item and I noted she had explained it was a Christmas gift and 
so, I wouldnt have expected her to use it at that time.
Mrs W provided a photograph of the sealed box showing the serial number. Very 
provided photographs from its returns centre which showed an item being returned of 
the same type Mrs W ordered but the box had a different serial number and the item 
in its photographs has been used. To try to address the conflicting evidence, I asked 
Very to provide confirmation of the serial number of the item that was sent to Mrs W 
and whether an item with the serial number Mrs W had provided a photograph of was 
recorded as returned. Unfortunately, this information couldnt be provided. 
On balance, I found it reasonable to accept Mrs Ws testimony that she returned the 
items she had received on 21 November 2019 unopened. It wasnt clear what then 
happened, but an item was returned to Mrs W which she then returned to Very 
following the instructions she had received. This was the item that the returns centre 
provided photographs of. As I found it more likely than not that Mrs W returned the 
item in line with the return conditions, I thought the fairest resolution was for Mrs Ws 
account to be put back in the position it would have been had the item return been 
accepted in November 2019. 
I accepted that Very provided Mrs W with notification that she had six weeks to 
reclaim the item and so Mrs W should have been reasonably aware of the 
consequences of not doing this. However, as I thought her complaint should be 
upheld this issue was no longer relevant.
I understood the comments Mrs W made about the service she received. Having 
listened to the calls I found the advisors tried to assist her although the information 
wasnt always clear. Our investigator recommended Mrs W be paid £25 
compensation because of the misleading information she was given about the reason 
for the issue with the return. I agreed with this but as I thought Mrs Ws return should 
have been accepted I thought the amount of compensation should be increased to 
£75 to reflect the upset and distress she had been caused.
Mrs W accepted my provisional decision. Very didnt. Very provided further commentary 
about how the returns process was handled. It challenged why Mrs W took the photograph 
before returning the initial item and explained that the chance of the item being swapped at 
its returns centre was minimal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Where the evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I have made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities - that is what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I appreciate the additional information that Very provided in response to my provisional 
decision, however, on balance I do not find this changes my assessment. Mrs W ordered an 
item which she returned on the same day that she received it. I note the comments about 
why Mrs W took a photograph of the item, but Mrs Ws testimony has been consistent 
through this complaint and she provided photographs of both returns receipts. I do not find I 
have anything to say Mrs W returned an item different to the one she photographed.
There was a delay before the investigation into the item took place and the issue with the 
item being used was raised. So, while I note the comments that have been made, there is a 
chance that an error was made in processing Mrs Ws return and without further evidence to 
the contrary I find, on balance, I accept the testimony and evidence provided by Mrs W and 
so, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
I find the fairest resolution to this complaint is for Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
trading as Very to:
remove the charge of £199 (and any associated interest and charges) applied to 
Mrs Ws account for the returned item so that Mrs Ws account is put back in the 
position it would have been had the return been accepted in November 2019;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file arising from this 
specific issue; and
pay Mrs W £75 compensation for the upset this issue has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
trading as Very should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman