Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mr D complains that the vehicle that he acquired in 2017 through a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) was misrepresented to him as being a campervan. 
He now realises that on the logbook it says it is a van with windows and is unhappy as he 
feels this means he overpaid for it, and he has struggled to sell it as its not registered as a 
campervan. 
What happened
In August 2017, Mr D took out a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse to acquire a 
used vehicle. The finance agreement calls it a VW Camper, and the sales invoice called it 
a T26 Startline Transporter. 
Mr D says that he noticed at some point in around 2019 that the logbook stated it was a van 
with windows. Around this time, he had decided to try to sell the vehicle due to a change in 
circumstances. He has told us that hes now struggling to sell the van as its not registered 
as a campervan. He also felt he had lost money because he paid a higher price for this 
vehicle as it was a campervan, not a normal van. 
In 2021 he complained to Black Horse about this, and they responded in October 2021. 
They explained that the concern had first been reported to the broker who supplied the 
vehicle to Mr D in June 2021, and the broker had offered to assist Mr D in getting the 
logbook changed. Black Horse said they werent upholding the complaint, as the vehicle was 
fit for purpose, and the description on the logbook was visible to Mr D shortly after the sale 
which by then was almost 4 years prior. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr D brought his complaint to our service for investigation. Our 
investigator gave their view that the business didnt need to do anymore. They felt that Mr D 
should have been aware of the details in the logbook shortly after purchasing the vehicle and 
hadnt raised any concern. Mr D had also said he was aware of this in 2019, but still didnt 
raise any concern with the business until 2021. The investigator felt that the offer to help 
change the logbook was fair and didnt feel the business needed to do anymore.  
Mr D engaged with the broker to try to get the logbook changed, but when this still wasnt 
resolved, he asked the case to be referred to an Ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-3361327Page 2 of 3reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two elements to this which I will consider. The first is whether the vehicle was fit 
for purpose; is there anything which makes the vehicle not of satisfactory quality. The 
second is whether the vehicle was misrepresented to Mr D in any way. 
With regards to whether the vehicle was fit for purpose, I have consideration for the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). It says under a contract to supply goods, there is an 
implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The CRA says the quality of goods 
are satisfactory if they meet the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances.
There is no suggestion that the vehicle hasnt performed as required, or that the functions or 
features of it dont meet what Mr D expected. Indeed, in looking into the registration of 
campervans, its clear to me that many different types exist, and some are registered as 
motor caravans, some as van with windows and some just as vans, depending on the 
specifics of the model, or the details of any conversion carried out. How the vehicle is 
registered doesnt impact on how it can be used. 
As such, I dont have any concerns with whether the vehicle was fit for purpose. Mr D has 
raised no concerns about its function as a campervan, so Im satisfied that it was of 
satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
The second area to consider is whether the vehicle was misrepresented to Mr D. Black 
Horse is responsible for what was said during the negotiations between Mr D and the 
broker/dealership where he acquired the vehicle, by way of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Mr D is alleging there was some kind of misrepresentation of the vehicle to him. For the 
agreement to have been misrepresented to him, the broker would need to have made a false 
statement of fact that persuaded Mr D to do something he might not have done otherwise. 
Theres no record of any discussions between Mr D and the broker. With the passage of 
time, and this taking place over four years ago, its not reasonable to expect either party to 
remember specifics of any discussions. So, Ive considered the evidence I have, to decide 
whether anything was misrepresented to Mr D. 
If Mr D had specific concerns about the type of registration of the vehicle when he entered 
into the agreement, Id have expected him to check the logbook when he received it, and to 
query this at the time if it didnt meet his requirements. But theres no evidence that he raised 
this with the business until 2021, almost four years later. 
There is no evidence available to show how the vehicle was advertised in 2017. What I can 
see is that the title VW Camper is used on the finance agreement. However, I think its 
important to recognise that campervan itself is not a term that the DVLA use for registering 
vehicles. The term they use for any type of motorhome is motor caravan, so I am not 
persuaded that advertising the vehicle as a campervan would be a misrepresentation. 
Campervan is a general term used to describe the functionality of a vehicle, and it would be 
up to the consumer to check on the specific logbook registration of the vehicle to ensure they 
were happy with it. Ive seen no evidence that Mr D specifically wanted a van classified by 
the DVLA as a motor caravan, and if he had, Id have expected him to query this as soon 
as he received the logbook. 
I also think that perhaps there is an unfortunate timing of events here. I can see that in 
October 2019, the DVLA changed the details of what a van needed to have to be classified Page 3 of 3as a motor caravan, and it seems that far less campervans now meet these requirements. I 
empathise with Mr D if these changes have caused him issues in getting the vehicle 
reclassified, but I cant hold the business responsible for this. They supplied the vehicle in 
2017, before these changes, and couldnt reasonably have known that this might cause a 
problem for Mr D.   
With no evidence that Mr D was told anything false which persuaded him to enter the 
agreement, I cant agree it was misrepresented to him. I empathise with him, because hes 
told us that his circumstances have changed, and he wants to sell the vehicle. But there 
could be many different issues affecting the price he can obtain when trying to sell it, and as 
Ive explained above, the requirements for registering a vehicle with the DVLA as a motor 
caravan have changed during the period Mr D has had the vehicle. This may also be 
impacting the price he can get for it on the market and isnt something that Black Horse can 
be held responsible for. 
Mr D agreed the price to acquire the vehicle in 2017, and as with any vehicle, there are lots 
of factors which influence its price at different times. But Ive seen no evidence that the 
business over charged Mr D or kept any information from him when he purchased it, so I 
cant hold them responsible for any subsequent drop in value. 
I dont think that Black Horse did anything wrong when supplying the vehicle to Mr D, and I 
wont be asking them to do anymore here. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman