DRN-3706626
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service hes received from Wise Payments Limited, trading as 
Wise, surrounding fraud concerns he had on his account.
What happened
Mr D contacted Wise as he was concerned that an unknown party was attempting to access 
his account. Wise checked Mr Ds account for potential fraud but couldnt find evidence of 
any. Mr D then transferred money into his Wise account but found that his account had been 
restricted pending further checks. Mr D wasnt happy about this, or with the lack of 
information Wise would give him about these further checks, so he raised a complaint.
Wise looked at Mr Ds complaint. They didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by completing the 
further checks that they had, especially as Mr D had expressed concerns about potential 
fraud. However, Wise did acknowledge that they hadnt responded to emails sent by Mr D 
about this in a timely manner. Wise apologised to Mr D for this and offered to make a 
payment of £50 to him as a gesture of goodwill. Mr D wasnt satisfied with Wises response, 
so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel Wise had acted unfairly in 
how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wise has a two stage account log-in process which includes the sending of a log-in code to 
an account holders registered mobile phone so that the account holder can then verify that 
the log-in request that generated that code came from themselves.  
Mr D became concerned about potential fraudulent activity on his account because he 
received log-in codes, asking him to verify that he wanted to log-in in to his Wise account, at 
times when he hadnt attempted to log-in to his account himself. 
It's unclear why Mr D was receiving the erroneous log-in codes that he did. But Wise 
conducted a check of Mr Ds account and concluded that no illegitimate attempts to log-in to 
Mr Ds account were taking place. Wise then advised Mr D of their findings and suggested 
he change his password as a precaution, which Mr D did. This all seems reasonable to me, 
and while I can appreciate that Mr D might have liked more information about why he was 
receiving the log-in codes as he did, it seems plausible that he may have received the codes 
for reasons not readily discernible to Wise, including potential network connectivity issues.
Mr D is unhappy that when he then moved money into his Wise account, his access to that 
money was blocked while Wise undertook further checks into his account. But financial 
businesses such as Wise have an obligation to protect their account holders money. And 
given that Mr D had raised concerns about potential fraud taking place on his account, I 
dont feel its unreasonable for Wise to have undertaken the further checks they did. 
Mr D notes that hed made similar transfers into his Wise account previously, none of which 
had been selected for further checks. But it doesnt follow from this that such transfers would 
never be selected for further checks. And as explained above, I dont feel that Wise should 
be considered as acting unfairly or unreasonably by performing them.
Mr D is also unhappy that Wise wont confirm that similar checks wont be performed in the 
further or given him more information about the checks. But it I dont feel that Mr Ds 
expectations here are reasonable. This is because any fraud prevention system, such as the 
one Wise employ, must work on the possibility that any movement of money may potentially 
be subject to further scrutiny. Otherwise the system will have blind spots that may be 
exploited. Similarly, if knowledge about how a fraud prevention system works is released into 
the public domain, then that information may be potentially be acquired and abused by 
persons looking to illegitimately circumnavigate that fraud prevention system.
Unfortunately, the employment of fraud checks on transactions and accounts can lead to an 
unavoidable degree of necessary inconvenience, and I feel that thiss whats happened here. 
But I dont feel that Wise have acted unfairly by conducting the further checks that they did, 
and I note that the use of these checks is declared and permitted within the terms of the 
Wise account. I also note that the period that Mr D was unable to access the money placed 
into his account was less than 24 hours, which doesnt seem unreasonable or excessive.
Finally, Mr D is unhappy that Wise didnt respond to the emails he sent chasing a response 
to his complaint in a timely manner. Mr D raised his complaint with Wise on 5 August 2021, 
from which time Wise had eight weeks to issue a response. Wise issued their response to 
Mr Ds complaint on 21 September 2021, which was within the eight-week timeframe 
allowed. So, while I can appreciate that Mr D is unhappy that Wise didnt respond to the 
emails he sent during that eight week period, I dont feel that Wise have acted unfairly in 
regard to how long it took them to respond to his complaint.
However, Wise have accepted that they could have acknowledged Mr Ds emails upon 
receipt, and theyve apologised to Mr D for not doing this and offered a payment of £50 as a 
good will gesture to him. This seems fair to me, and I leave it to Wises discretion as to 
whether that offer is still available to Mr D, should he choose to accept it. 
All of which means that I dont feel that Wise have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
manner that Mr D contends here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Wise to take any further action. I hope Mr D will understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman