DRN-3596263
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she has been charged for excess mileage when her agreement with 
RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) was voluntary terminated.
Mrs C has been represented. But for clarity, Ive only referred to her throughout this decision. 
What happened
In February 2016, Mrs C entered into a hire purchase agreement with RCI to acquire a used 
car. The mileage of the car was 5,010 and the total repayable under the agreement was 
£18,636.65. Mrs C was required to make 48 monthly payments of £248.24 (after factoring in 
the initial deposit) and there was a final optional payment of £5,222.13 if she wished to buy 
the car at the end of the agreement. 
The agreement entitled Mrs C to terminate the agreement at any time before the final 
payment was due. If Mrs C exercised this option, the agreement set out that RCI would be 
entitled to the return of the car and at least half of the total repayable under the agreement. 
This was £9,318.83.
As part of the agreement, Mrs C had an annual mileage allowance of 10,000. RCI said that if 
Mrs C exceeded this allowance, she would be required to pay 8 pence (including VAT) for 
every mile that she exceeded the allowance by. 
In late September 2018, Mrs C contacted RCI and said she wanted to exercise her right to 
terminate the agreement early. RCI processed this request in early October 2018. 
Subsequently, the car was collected by RCIs recovery agents  who Ill refer to as B. 
An inspection was carried out at Mrs Cs property by B. It said the following damage, totalling 
£422.57, was outside of fair wear and tear:
1. Left hand front alloy wheel  rim damage - £55
2. Foglamp surround  gouged - £22.57
3. Front right door  scratched - £40
4. Central right post  scratched - £48
5. Rear bumper  dent - £53
6. Rear bumper  misaligned - £25
7. Left quarter panel  dent - £138
8. Front left door mirror housing  scuffed - £41
RCI noted that when the car was handed back, the mileage was 42,719. It said as Mrs C 
had the car for 32 months and so, she had a pro-rated mileage allowance of 26,667. It said 
because Mrs C had travelled 37,709 miles in the 32 months she had the car, she had 
exceeded her mileage allowance by 11,042 miles. RCI charged Mrs C £883.39, as she had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement. This was in addition to half of the total 
amount repayable under the agreement and the damage charges identified by B. In total, it 
said Mrs C owed it £1,305.96.
Following this, Mrs C contacted RCI and said she wanted to dispute the damage charges, as 
she felt they were all within fair wear and tear. She also said she wanted an explanation of 
when the damage occurred. RCI said it didnt cause the damage and said either Mrs C or a 
third party must have caused the damage. Mrs C later wrote to RCI in November 2018 to 
query the inspection report.
In February 2019, RCI passed the outstanding debt to a third party to collect the outstanding 
amount. Ill refer to the third party as Q.
In September 2020, Q contacted RCI and said it hadnt responded to Mrs Cs letter she sent 
it in November 2018. RCI said it had attempted to contact Mrs C following receipt of the 
letter and asked Mrs C to contact it, but it didnt receive any contact from her.
In March 2021, Mrs C complained to RCI. She said it broke regulations as it didnt respond 
to her complaint from 2018 and it passed the debt to Q, even though Mrs C was disputing it 
with RCI. Mrs C said RCI should compensate her £1,305.96 because of the regulations it 
had broken and the upset it had caused her. In April 2021, RCI asked Q to place a hold on 
any collection activity. 
In May 2021, RCI rejected Mrs Cs complaint as it was satisfied that the excess mileage and 
damage charges had been raised correctly. It said it had reduced the outstanding amount 
owed to £1,057.72 as it had collected a monthly payment after the voluntary termination had 
been processed.
Unhappy with this, Mrs C referred her complaint to this service. She reiterated her complaint 
about the damage charges. She said RCI didnt tell her why it reduced the debt to £1,057.72 
until it responded to her complaint in May 2021. She said she also disputed the excess 
mileage charge and said RCI hadnt reviewed this complaint point. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said she didnt think Mrs Cs hire purchase 
agreement clearly set out the charges for excess mileage on voluntary termination. She also 
said she didnt think the agreement or RCIs pre-contract information or conversations 
provided an adequate explanation about whether the excess mileage charge would be 
payable on voluntary termination. She said as a result of all this, she thought the 
requirements of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook CONC 5.2.5R hadnt 
been met. And she said she found that the agreement between RCI and Mrs C wasnt clear 
so she said she found RCI breached Principle 7 of the FCA Principles for Businesses. 
She said it wasnt fair and reasonable for RCI to charge Mrs C the excess mileage charge of 
£883.39.
Our investigator also considered the damages identified by B. She said six of the charges 
were applied fairly in line with the industry standard - The British Vehicle Rental & Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. But she said RCI should remove the 
charges for the front left door mirror housing and the misaligned rear bumper. 
RCI responded and said it had removed the total outstanding amount of £1,057.72. And so, 
it said Mrs C owed it no further amounts.
Mrs C disagreed. She said she had complained about both Q and RCI. She queried why RCI 
continued to pursue a debt she had disputed and queried whether our investigator had 
considered the emotional upset caused. She said RCI should have refunded the 
overpayment she had made, rather than reducing the outstanding balance she owed. She 
asked whether the investigator had considered that Mrs C could have repaired the damage 
identified by B for a lesser cost. She also said RCI should provide evidence it had the repairs 
carried out. She said she had been threatened without justification.
Our investigator responded and said Mrs C would need to raise a separate complaint 
against Q if she was unhappy with its actions. She said damage charges could still be 
applied by a lender, even if it didnt have any repairs carried out before it sold a car. So she 
said she couldnt say RCI was obliged to carry out repairs to the car. Mrs C said our investigator hadnt considered the emotional upset she had suffered for three 
years. 
Our investigator said Mrs C hadnt paid the outstanding amount RCI had pursued her for and 
so, she had no financial loss. She also said Mrs C hadnt evidenced harassment from RCI 
chasing the debt. She said creditors were entitled to take reasonable steps to recover money 
owed to them and this in itself wouldnt be considered as harassment. 
Mrs C said RCI hadnt contacted her for three years as it knew its behaviour was 
unacceptable. She said she wanted the ombudsman to consider compensation for the 
emotional stress caused. She said RCI had unfairly instructed Q to collect an incorrect 
amount. She said this was unreasonable and was harassment. 
As Mrs C remains unhappy, the case has been passed to me to decide.
Our investigator correctly advised Mrs C shell need to raise a separate complaint against Q 
if she is unhappy with its conduct. So this decision wont comment on Mrs Cs complaint 
about the way in which the debt was collected by Q or any of its actions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mrs C has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of our service allow me to do this.
Mrs C complains about a hire purchase agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
such as this is as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mrs Cs 
complaint against RCI. 
In this case, theres no dispute that RCI shouldnt have charged Mrs C for the excess 
mileage charges it said were chargeable upon voluntary termination of the agreement. Both 
parties also agree that RCI shouldnt have charged Mrs C for two damage charges B 
calculated for damage to the front left door mirror housing and the misaligned rear bumper. 
As these charges arent disputed, Ive not commented on them as part of this decision. 
Instead, Ive concentrated on the outstanding dispute points in this case. These are whether 
RCI was entitled to charge Mrs C for the remaining six damage charges. And whether it 
should compensate Mrs C for any distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Damage identified by B
The terms and conditions of Mrs Cs hire agreement explain that Mrs C had an obligation to 
keep the car properly maintained. They said Mrs C was responsible for any loss or damage 
to the car, regardless of whether the loss or damage was her fault.
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. RCI is a member of the BVRLA.
Left hand front alloy wheel 
In relation to alloys, BVRLA guidance says: 
Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. 
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are 
acceptable. Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. 
Ive looked at the photograph provided for the left hand front wheel alloy where damage was 
identified by B. The photograph shows damage and scuffing in excess of 50mm. In light of 
this, Im satisfied RCI is entitled to charge Mrs C for the damage to the left hand front wheel 
alloy as it falls outside of fair wear and tear.
Foglamp
In relation to lamps and lenses, the BVRLA guidance says:
Minor scuff marks or scratches up to 25mm are acceptable. Holes or cracks in the glass or 
plastic covers of lamp units are not acceptable.
Ive looked at the photograph provided for the foglamp where damage was identified by B. 
The photograph shows damage and scuffing in excess of 25mm to the plastic cover. In light 
of this, Im satisfied RCI is entitled to charge Mrs C for the damage to the foglamp as it falls 
outside of fair wear and tear.
Front rear door and c post rear scratches
The BVRLA says for scratches to bumpers and the body and paint of a car:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one 
panel is acceptable. 
Ive looked at the photographs for both of the areas where scratches were identified. These 
show there is a noticeable scratch on the door and a scratch on the c post. For both 
scratches, the primer is showing. As a result of this, I think its fair for RCI to charge Mrs C 
for the damage to both these areas as it falls outside of fair wear and tear.
Rear bumper and left quarter panel dents
In relation to paintwork, body, bumpers and trim, the BVRLA guidance says:
Dents (up to 10mm) are acceptable provided there are no more than two (2) per panel and 
the paint surface is not broken. Dents on the roof or swage line on any panels are not 
acceptable.
Ive looked at the photographs for both of the areas where dents were identified. Both 
photographs show a zebra board demonstrating the extent of dents. The photographs show 
clear distortion where the dents are. Im satisfied the dents in both areas are in excess of 
10mm and so, I think its fair for RCI to charge Mrs C for the damage to both these areas, as 
it falls outside of fair wear and tear.
Overall, I think RCI are entitled to pursue Mrs C for £356.57 which represents the damage 
that falls outside of fair wear and tear. This is the total damage charges - £422.57 - less the 
two charges both parties agree should be removed totalling £66.
Mrs C said she could have repaired the damage identified by B for a lower cost than RCI 
had charged. She also said RCI should provide evidence it had carried out the repairs.
Ive thought carefully about this, but it would be down to Mrs C to carry out any repairs for 
any damage caused to the car whilst she had it, before the car was collected by B. She 
didnt do this. 
In addition, it is down to RCI to decide whether it will repair the car or instead absorb the 
impact of the damage to the sales price of the car. I dont think the damage charges are 
excessive and neither do I think theyre disproportionate to the damage that has occurred. 
So, I dont think RCI did anything wrong when it didnt provide Mrs C with an opportunity to 
repair the car after handing it back. And neither do I require it to provide Mrs C with evidence 
it made any repairs or the sales price of the car, if it decided not to carry out the repairs.Does RCI need to do anything further to put things right?
Mrs C has said RCI pursued her for an incorrect amount, it passed the debt to a debt 
collection agency, it caused her emotional stress and it should have refunded the additional 
monthly payment it collected to her directly, instead of removing it from her outstanding 
balance.
Ive thought about all of these issues and whether I think RCI needs to do anything to put 
things right. Whilst I think RCI made some errors, Im not asking RCI to do anything further, 
as I think it has already done enough to put things right. Ill explain why. 
After the car had been collected by B, RCI wrote to Mrs C and let her know she owed it a 
total of £1,305.96. This was correct at the time because the excess mileage charges totalled 
£883.39 and the damage charges totalled £422.57. So it was pursuing her for the correct 
amount at the time. However, on or around the same day the voluntary termination was 
processed, Mrs Cs statement of account shows a Direct Debit payment of £248.24 was 
debited from Mrs Cs account. This shouldnt have been debited as the voluntary termination 
had been processed. RCIs system notes also show it was aware there was an overpayment 
on the agreement when it issued the letter to Mrs C. 
I can see that the statement of account shows the same day a payment was debited from 
Mrs Cs account, the payment was credited to Mrs Cs hire purchase account. Following this, 
the amount was deducted from Mrs Cs outstanding damage charges and so, the 
outstanding charges reduced from £1,305.96 to £1,057.72. Mrs C says this amount should 
have been paid to her directly instead of being reduced from her outstanding charges. I 
agree and I think RCI should have refunded this amount directly to Mrs C, instead of 
deducting it from her outstanding charges.
With regards to RCI passing Mrs Cs account to Q, I dont think RCI has acted unfairly. This 
is because when Mrs C contacted RCI in November 2018, RCI attempted to contact her in 
December 2018 to address her concerns and it left a voicemail for Mrs C to contact it. It 
didnt hear back from Mrs C and so, it instructed Q to collect the debt on its behalf. So I dont 
think RCI has acted unfairly because at the time, it hadnt received contact from Mrs C and 
she had an outstanding amount owing towards her balance.
Mrs C says because RCI pursued her for this outstanding debt, she was caused emotional 
stress due to the unreasonable behaviour of RCI which was harassment. 
This service has already explained why we cant consider the actions of Q and so Ill focus 
on the actions of RCI only. In addition, this service isnt the regulator. The FCA is the 
regulator and so, this service doesnt have the power to fine or punish businesses. 
Bearing this in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether I think RCI caused Mrs C distress 
and inconvenience. Having done so, I accept that RCI likely caused Mrs R some distress 
and inconvenience. But Im satisfied some distress and inconvenience is expected when 
pursuing a complaint. In this case, I dont think RCIs actions amounted to harassment given 
it attempted to call Mrs C and when it didnt receive payment, it passed the account to Q. Ive 
seen no suggestion that RCI continuously and unreasonably contacted Mrs C. And so, I 
dont think RCI harassed Mrs C.
In addition, I accept that the amount RCI had told Q to pursue Mrs C was incorrect as all 
parties agree a significant amount of the charges shouldnt have been charged to Mrs C. I 
also note that it doesnt appear Mrs C made any attempts to make any payment to RCI for 
any of the charges and instead disputed all the charges. Having said this, I appreciate its 
likely to have been stressful for Mrs C to receive notification that she owed charges in 
excess of £1,000 when this should have been around £350.
Overall, having considered whats happened, I dont think RCI should have deducted the 
additional payment debited from Mrs Cs account towards the outstanding charges she owed it and I think RCI likely caused Mrs C some distress and inconvenience when it pursued her 
for an amount higher than she owed. 
The total amount RCI pursued Mrs C for was £1,305.96. Of this, £883.39 represented the 
excess mileage charge. And this service is satisfied two of the charges totalling £66 should 
be removed. This means Mrs Cs remaining outstanding liability would be £356.57. However, 
RCI also retained an additional payment of £248.24 made towards Mrs Cs agreement to 
reduce the total amount of charges she owed. Taking this into consideration, this means that 
Mrs C would have an outstanding balance of £108.33 to pay towards the damage charges. 
However, as a resolution to this complaint, RCI has already written off this outstanding 
amount. Having thought about this and any distress and inconvenience likely caused to    
Mrs C, I think RCI acted fairly and reasonably by writing off the remaining £108.33 and I 
think this represents fair compensation for the errors it made. So it follows that I dont require 
RCI to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im satisfied that what RCI Financial Services Limited has already 
done to put things right for Mrs C is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case. 
So Im not requiring it to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman