DRN-2631919
The complaint
Mr D complains about the service he received from TSB Bank plc. Hes unhappy with the 
service he received when he asked TSB to process a chargeback for an item he paid for but 
didnt receive.
What happened
Mr D purchased an outdoor ice cooler through an online retailer using his TSB debit card. 
The cooler cost £27.95 and Mr D ordered it on 20 June 2020. The cooler was out of stock 
and Mr D experienced problems getting a refund from the retailer, so he contacted TSB to 
see whether he could seek reimbursement under the chargeback scheme. He told us:
the day after hed ordered and paid for the cooler, the retailer telephoned to tell him 
that the cooler was now out of stock and it offered to refund the money to his card;
the call came from a withheld telephone number and he was reluctant to provide the 
caller with his card details fearing it to be a scam;
he was given the run-around by the retailer and decided to contact TSB;
he checked the banks website and noted that he needed to wait 15 days before he 
could start the claims process;
he submitted his claim but the response he received told him hed need to wait 30 
days because of Covid-19;
he contacted the bank, but it ignored his email, so he raised a complaint and re-
submitted his claim. But he noted the claim form had been updated to advise 
customers of the 30-day wait period instead of the 15-day wait period hed seen 
before;
although hes now received his money, TSB shouldve updated its website more 
quickly and it shouldnt have tried to divest itself of its responsibilities by using the 
pandemic as an excuse.
TSB rejected this complaint and said it hadnt made a mistake. It said it had changed its 
advice to customers and asked them to wait 30 days before raising a chargeback because of 
the ongoing situation with the pandemic, and the fact it needed to allow merchants more 
time to issue refunds. TSB confirmed Mr D has received his refund in full on 21 July 2020.
TSB told us that the pandemic has caused many problems and that at the time Mr D made 
his claim  June 2020  there were unprecedented times and delays for materials, goods 
and services. And this was why Mr D had been given a timescale of 30 days.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
acknowledged that TSB had changed its timescales around the time Mr D first made his 
claim, but she didnt think this change was unreasonable in the circumstances or that it was 
unfair to Mr D. She explained that in normal circumstances it isnt unusual for a chargeback 
to take some time to process and in this particular case, Mr D had received his refund in full 
in less than a month.
Taking all this into account, she acknowledged the frustration Mr D felt in having to complete 
an additional claim form and that things may have taken slightly longer than he expected. 
But she didnt think Mr D had experienced any financial loss, so she wasnt going to ask TSB 
to do anything.
Mr D disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mr D says TSB shouldnt be using 
the pandemic as an excuse to give shoddy customer service and it shouldnt have 
retrospectively changed its terms and conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything very carefully, Ive reached the same conclusion as our 
investigator and I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
In this particular complaint, Im only looking at the delays and the associated level of service 
that Mr D received from TSB. This is because although Mr D disputed a payment totalling 
£27.95 that was debited to his account on 23 June 2020, both parties have now confirmed 
that £27.95 was credited back to Mr Ds current account on 21 July 2020.
It might be helpful if I explain that in some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund 
from the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment 
settlement disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are 
dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visas. In certain 
circumstances the process provides a way for TSB to ask for a payment Mr D made to be 
refunded. Those circumstances include where goods or services arent supplied by the 
company Mr D paid or they werent as described by the supplier.
Theres no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one.
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists
and there is reasonable chance of success.
In this case, it appears that Mr D has ultimately not been provided with the goods that he 
originally paid for. And in normal circumstances, it would seem reasonable to expect TSB to 
raise a chargeback for him, as Im satisfied that this scenario is one that is covered within 
Visas chargeback rules.
Its not unusual for a chargeback to take some time to process. It can take time for a bank to 
gather the correct and necessary information needed to raise the claim, and the chargeback 
rules also require banks to give suppliers time  usually around a month - to respond to any 
chargeback raised, in case they want to dispute it. Taking this into account, Im satisfied that 
the chargeback appears to have followed the usual processes and the time taken for the 
money to reach Mr Ds account was in line with what I would expect.
I dont doubt for a moment that this whole experience was frustrating for Mr D. Hed paid for 
an item that was out of stock and then experienced poor customer service from the retailer in 
trying to obtain a refund. But I cant hold TSB responsible for any of this because the initial 
problems were caused by the retailer, and then compounded by the pandemic. 
I also need to take into account that these werent normal circumstances. It was an 
unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, when Mr D first contacted TSB, dealing with 
significant numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as the global 
pandemic unfolded. Many of these claims will have brought up issues which were relatively 
novel, and the banks were having to digest new information, rules and guidance at a very 
unusual time. And many firms faced operational challenges during this period.I appreciate that Mr D completed the claim form twice and that the timescales for resolution 
that were communicated to him increased from 15 days to 30 days, so I think TSB couldve 
given Mr D clearer information about the chargeback process. But I dont think Mr D lost out 
because of this. And although I wouldve expected TSB to identify vulnerable customers who 
may need more immediate support and help, from the information I have, I dont think Mr D 
fell into this category. Ive also noted that once TSB had the information it needed to dispute 
the transaction for Mr D, his chargeback was processed within the timescales that I would 
expect and which I consider to be reasonable in the given circumstances.
So, for the reasons Ive given, I dont think TSB needs to do anything more; it was able to 
refund Mr D in full within a month of his initial claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman