DRN-3446487
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC managed his mortgage. He is being 
represented on this complaint.
What happened
In 2010, Mr B took out a part interest only and part repayment mortgage. The mortgage had 
an 11-year term. It was for £701,000 with £618,750 being on an interest only basis. It was a 
Woolwich branded mortgage provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
In 2012, Mr B borrowed an extra £600,000 using his mortgage current account (MCA) 
account. A MCA is a current account linked to a mortgage.
Mr Bs mortgage came to an end on 16 October 2021. A few months before the mortgage 
ended, he told Barclays he was unable to repay the capital balance (£950,696.58) at the end 
of the mortgage term.
Mr B complains about the customer service he received from Barclays after he spoke to 
them on 30 July 2021 to request an extension to his mortgage. He says he was told the 
mortgage could be extended for a year  but only on a repayment basis, which meant hed 
have to pay around £55,000 per month. Mr B couldnt pay that and thought Barclays 
shouldve done more to help. He also complains that he was told Barclays would phone him 
back the following day, but it didnt.
Mr B wrote to Barclays to complain on 9 August 2021. He also emailed an adviser hed been 
in contact with. Mr B didnt receive an acknowledgement, so he had to chase Barclays for a 
response. His representatives also contacted Barclays on his behalf on 3, 13 and 14 
September 2021. On 14 September 2021 Barclays said Mr Bs complaint on had been 
passed on to its relevant team.
Mr Bs representatives chased Barclays for a response on 22 and 23 September 2021 and 
were told that the matter had been resolved. That wasnt the case as Barclays hadnt 
responded to Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B says he spoke to a Barclays adviser on 24 September 2021 who said he could apply 
for an extension to his mortgage for one year if he provided evidence to show he planned to 
sell his property. Mr B says he emailed Barclays on 7 October 2021 regarding this and 
enclosed an agreement with an estate agent  but he didnt receive a response from 
Barclays.
After this Barclays agreed to extend Mr Bs mortgage for one year to give him time to sell his 
property and repay what he owed Barclays. It said it would carry out quarterly reviews of 
Mr Bs mortgage account with him throughout that year.
In addition to the customer service Mr B received, he complained that Barclays failed in its 
duty to regularly check in with customers like himself regarding plans to repay the mortgage 
at the end of the term. His representatives referred to regulations and guidance it said 
Barclays hadnt complied with. They said Barclays shouldve done more to help Mr B repay 
the mortgage over the years.
For completeness I will say here that Mr B has also complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service about the fact that he was allowed to borrow the extra £600,000 using 
his mortgage current account (MCA) account. But he was out of time to do so under the 
rules that govern our service. 
After Mr B complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service his representatives also 
complained that Mr B had been requesting a breakdown of the interest paid for months but 
hasn't received anything from Barclays about this. They also complained about the amount 
of interest Barclays was charging Mr B. Our investigator said that as those were new issues, 
Mr B was free to complain about them in a sperate complaint.
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators who thought that Barclays offer of 
£150 compensation was fair. So she didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mr Bs 
representatives said Mr B disagreed with our investigator and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. They didnt give any specific reasons for this beyond being 
unhappy with what our investigator had said. So this complaint has been passed on to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Customer Service 
Barclays have accepted that its customer service after Mr B contacted them in summer 2021 
to tell him he couldnt repay his mortgage when the term came to its end was poor. Theres 
no dispute that Mr B and his representative had to chase Barclays for a response to his 
complaint several times, and that it mistakenly closed his complaint saying it had been 
resolved. Ive no doubt this was very frustrating for Mr B at what was clearly a stressful time. 
However, I also think the £150 Barclays have offered him for this is fair and reasonable 
given the length of time he was affected by those issues. Like our investigator, I can see that 
once Barclays realised its mistake it acted promptly to re-open the complaint. It also kept 
talking to Mr B so that it was able to agree with Mr B that it would extend his mortgage for a 
year to give him time to sell his property so he could repay his debt to Barclays. I think that 
was a fair way for Barclays to proceed given that Mr B needed time to repay what he owed 
once his mortgage came to an end.
Regulatory issues
Mr B and his representative have listed a number of regulatory principles and guidance they 
say Barclays didnt comply with during the life of Mr Bs mortgage. These broadly relate to 
the requirement for Barclays to communicate with Mr B and treat him fairly.
Its not for this service  as an informal dispute resolution service, not a regulator - to decide 
whether Barclays met their regulatory obligations or not. However, Ive considered Mr Bs 
arguments and Im also of the view that Barclays havent made a mistake here. 
Barclays were required (under the Mortgage Conduct of Business rules) to send Mr B annual 
statements that included a prominent reminder that it was his responsibility to repay his interest only loan. I can see that they did this. Barclays sent Mr B annual mortgage 
statements that set out his remaining mortgage balance, the mortgage term left and the 
actions he needed to take to repay the balance. For example, Mr Bs 2016 mortgage 
statement says:
This mortgage includes £618,750.00 which is the current amount borrowed on interest only 
terms. Your contractual monthly repayment repays the interest due but does not reduce the 
capital borrowed on interest only terms. Your mortgage payments do not include the costs of 
any savings plan or other investment you may have arranged to build up a lump sum to 
repay the amount you borrowed. It is important to check regularly that your savings plan or 
other investment is on track to repay the interest only part of your mortgage at the end of the 
agreed term.
I think Barclays could reasonably expect Mr B to look at his annual mortgage statements and 
contact them if he had concerns about his ability to repay his mortgage at the end of its term. 
Mr B didnt do this until summer 2021  a few months before his mortgage was due to end.
The Mortgage Conduct of Business rules also say that its good practice for firms to engage 
early with interest-only customers by sending communications that set out the options 
available if a customer is concerned that they may be unable to repay their loan at the end of 
the mortgage term. They should set out, in a balanced way, any potential risks of not taking 
action in this situation. The rules go on to say that communications may increase in 
frequency as the customer approaches the end of the mortgage term. 
Barclays have sent us copies of letters it sent Mr B in April 2016 and January 2019 when he 
was 50% and 75% through his mortgage term respectively. Im satisfied those letters clearly 
set out what Mr B owed, when he had to repay it, and what his responsibilities were. The 
letters invited Mr B to contact Barclays to discuss his repayment plans. The 2019 letter 
contained the following wording:
It's important that you contact us as soon as possible if you feel your plans may not be on 
track to fully repay your mortgage when the term ends.  We are here to help and the sooner 
you get in touch with us the more likely it is we can help you make the right choices and 
decisions to ensure your mortgage is fully repaid at the end of the term.
The letter went on to give Mr B the relevant contact details.
Mr Bs representatives have said that Barclays shouldve asked Mr B how he intended to 
repay the capital balance at the end of his mortgage term. Having considered the letters Ive 
referred to above, I think Barclays effectively did this. 
In addition to the letters, Barclays notes show that it contacted Mr B in 2016, and again on 
21 January 2019 to review the mortgage. It also tried to phone him on 25 April 2019 to 
discuss how he was going to repay it, but there was no answer. Barclays made a second 
attempt to speak to Mr B about that in May 2019. 
Taking the matter as a whole, Im satisfied that Barclays was in contact with Mr B throughout 
the term of his mortgage.
I appreciate that Mr B is likely to be unhappy about this decision. He doesnt want to have to 
sell his home, and I have no doubt that that will have a large impact on him and his family. 
However, for the reasons set out above, I dont think Barclays needs to do more to resolve 
this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank PLC should pay Mr B the £150 they have offered unless they have already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman