DRN-2628253
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as R have complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced 
to close due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mrs T, director of R, has brought the complaint on 
Rs behalf. 
What happened
R holds a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. R claimed on their policy after 
they were required to close due to the Governments actions in response to Covid-19. R felt 
that RSA initially indicated that their claim would be covered, as their policy had a notifiable 
disease extension. However, RSA turned down Rs claim as there was no indication that 
anyone at Rs premises had Covid-19.
RSA said that, while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable
disease at the premises, R had closed as a result of the Government Act in response to the 
national pandemic. 
As Mrs T was unhappy with RSAs response and thought it should pay Rs claim, she 
brought the complaint to our service. She felt that Rs closure was as a result of Covid-19, as 
that led to the Government requiring businesses to close. 
Our investigator looked into Rs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He
thought RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
He thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at
the premises. And as the closure was due to the Government Act in response to the national 
pandemic, rather than because of a case of Covid-19 at the premises, the claim wasnt 
covered. 
Mrs T didnt think this was fair and referred to the Supreme Court judgment on the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case. She asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
R. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Rs claim. 
The most relevant part of Rs policy covers loss as a result of:
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human 
disease manifesting itself at the Premises
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease but I dont think this term covers Rs claim. I say that 
because the policy requires the closure or restrictions placed on Rs premises to have been 
the result of a case of the notifiable human disease occurring at the premises. It seems that 
R closed as a result of the Governments response to the pandemic, rather than because 
there was a case of Covid-19 at their premises. 
Mrs T asked if the Supreme Court judgment means RSA should pay Rs claim. However, the 
terms considered in the test case were different to those in Rs policy and, as Mrs T hasnt 
indicated that there was a case of Covid-19 at Rs premises, the judgment doesnt affect the 
outcome of her claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs T was hoping for but, having considered this matter 
very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask RSA to pay Rs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman