DRN-3616576
The complaint
Mr D complains that AJ Bell Management Limited caused delays to an Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) transfer and that he was unable to trade international stocks when the transfer 
completed.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr D submitted an on-line request to AJ Bell to transfer an existing ISA he held 
with another provider. After receiving the necessary documents requested from Mr D, AJ 
Bell accepted the assets in early September and submitted the transfer request. The existing 
ISA provider confirmed the assets had changed and a new request was submitted later the 
same month. The majority of the assets were transferred in early October, but there was a 
further delay with one of the assets and this wasnt transferred until early November.
Mr D complained to AJ Bell about the delay and that he couldnt trade international shares. 
AJ Bell accepted it had contributed to the delays in the transfer. AJ Bell apologised and 
offered Mr D £200 for the delay in completing the transfer. Mr D later complained that hed 
been unable to sell a specific US stock on-line since mid-October 2021 and this had caused 
him to miss out on selling at historically high prices. AJ Bell didnt uphold this part of the 
complaint as it believed it had provided Mr D with an alternative way to sell this stock.
Mr D brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that AJ Bell had explained to Mr D 
that he could sell the US stock by telephone at the end of October and that this was a 
reasonable alternative for Mr D to have used if he wanted to sell the stock. The Investigator 
thought that the offer AJ Bell made to pay Mr D £200 for the delays it had caused during the 
transfer process was a fair and reasonable one.
Mr D didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sure Mr D will be disappointed, but for much the same reasons as the Investigator Ive 
decided that the £200 AJ Bell offered Mr D for the delays it caused is a fair and reasonable 
offer in the circumstances of this case. And, because AJ Bell provided Mr D with a 
reasonable alternative to trade the US stock in question, Ive decided it doesnt need to do 
anything else. I will now explain why.
Delay in ISA transfer process
AJ Bell doesnt dispute that the transfer process as a whole took longer that it should have. 
So, I only have to consider the whether the offer AJ Bell made to remedy the delays is a fair 
and reasonable one. In this case, there were several points of delay, including emails sent to 
Mr D being diverted to his spam folder, Mr D returning a document with details missing, the 
assets in the ISA changing mid-transfer of the documents and, in respect of one of the 
stocks, AJ Bell using an incorrect market. 
Taking all of these delays into account Im satisfied that the offer of £200 made by AJ Bell 
was a fair and reasonable one. In my opinion it reasonably reflects that AJ Bell was 
responsible for some of the delays, but not all of them. As the £200 hasnt yet been paid to 
Mr D I will be asking AJ Bell to pay this to him.
Unable to trade specific US stock
Mr D realised he couldnt trade overseas stocks on-line in mid-October. After he told AJ Bell 
it said it would investigate. Later the same month Mr D messaged AJ Bell to say he still 
couldnt sell a specific US stock on-line and he feels that this caused a loss of opportunity to 
sell the stock at historically high prices. The reason why the stock couldnt be traded on-line 
was because the previous ISA provider used a different custodian to AJ Bell for some 
stocks.
I accept Mr D will have been disappointed that he couldnt sell the stock using his preferred 
option (on-line). However, AJ Bell told Mr D before the end of October that he could sell this 
particular stock by telephone and that it was working on a fix. Ive not seen any evidence that 
Mr D considered trading this specific stock again until January 2022, or that he told AJ Bell 
that he wanted to trade before this time, or that AJ Bell prevented a trade from happening by 
telephone.
In January, Mr D messaged AJ Bell to ask why he still couldnt trade the specific US stock. 
AJ Bell explained the stock was with a different custodian and that if Mr D wanted to trade 
the stock on-line, he could instruct AJ Bell to change the custodian. AJ Bell also explained to 
Mr D again that he could sell the US stock by telephone. Mr D asked that the custodian be 
changed, and this completed later the same month. 
Mr D is frustrated that AJ Bell didnt tell him he had to change the custodian to facilitate on-
line trading on the US stock and believes AJ Bell should have monitored the transfer and 
highlighted any issues surrounding stocks with a different custodian. I can understand Mr Ds 
frustration here, but I cant see that its reasonable to expect AJ Bell to review the custodian 
for each stock it may receive. But regardless of this, when Mr D raised his concern that he 
couldnt trade the US stock in October the previous year, AJ Bell made it clear at the time he 
could still trade by telephone. It seems to me that AJ Bell provided a reasonable alternative 
option to trade at the time and then re-iterated it in January when it became aware Mr D may 
be intending to trade in the stock. 
Mr D believes hes missed an opportunity to trade the US stock at historically high prices. 
That may be the case, but I dont agree that this has been caused by the actions of AJ Bell 
as the facility to trade was available  albeit by telephone which wasnt Mr Ds preferred 
option. AJ Bell could have told Mr D when he contacted them in October 2021 that the 
custodian could be changed, but I cant reasonably say that this prevented Mr D from trading 
the stock, so I wont be holding this part of Mr Ds complaint.
My final decision
Ive decided that AJ Bell Management Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is 
that AJ Bell Management Limited should pay Mr D £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman