DRN-2694548
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund two cash withdrawals he didnt 
receive.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr B tried to withdraw money from his account using an ATM machine. He 
says he didnt receive the money but did receive a receipt. 
Mr B attempted several withdrawals  all for different amounts. Two transactions totalling 
£20 each (a total of £40) debited Mr Bs account. Mr B thinks there was a fault with the cash 
machine  and although he waited around for a couple of minutes after each transaction, no 
cash was dispensed.
Barclays contacted the owner of the cash machine and said the evidence showed the money 
had been correctly dispensed and the machine balanced. So although they didnt refund 
Mr B with the £40, they did uphold his complaint due to the call waiting times he incurred 
while trying to sort out the issue. Barclays paid Mr B £50 compensation. Mr B wanted the 
£40 he was missing paid back to him as well.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that the evidence from 
the machine showed the correct notes were correctly dispensed and taken. And the machine 
had balanced. Mr B didnt agree  he said somebody else could have taken the money if the 
machine had a delay. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the circumstances of this complaint, what Mr B has told us and the 
technical evidence Barclays have provided, I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. I know 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr B so Ive explained the reasons for my decision 
below.
Mr B attempted several withdrawals from the cash machine. His testimony explains there 
were delays with the cash machine, and he received two receipts but no cash, so hes 
satisfied there was a fault. 
I appreciate Mr Bs strong feeling about whats happened. I thought it would be helpful to 
explain the process across the banking industry is that a claim in relation to a cash machine 
dispute is raised by the card holders bank (in Mr Bs case, Barclays). The cash machine 
operator would then either accept or defend the claim. Mr Bs case was defended and as 
Barclays dont own the machine, theyd have to rely on a lot of the information and evidence 
provided by the owner. So I can only focus on whether Barclays decision to not provide Mr 
B with a refund was fair based on the information theyd received. 
I appreciate Mr B has said if there was a delay with the machine, as he thinks there was, a 
third party could have taken the money when he left. Ive thought carefully about this, but Ive 
seen the timings of the machine and Mr B has told us he waited around for one to two 
minutes afterwards. The transactions were also separate so I cant find a reasonable 
explanation to explain how somebody could have taken £20 dispensed after the first 
transaction, while Mr B was still around the machine to attempt the second transaction.
While Ive considered what Mr B has told our service, I cannot ignore the technical evidence 
provided. Barclays reached out to the cash machine provider and they provided evidence 
which shows;
the money was successfully dispensed;
there was no £40 cash surplus when the cash machine was balanced. Which is what 
Id expect to see if the money was not dispensed and retracted;
the amount of £20 notes available reduced by one after each £20 withdrawal attempt;
the cash machine journal shows use of the machine before and after Mr Bs 
withdrawal attempts which suggests it was functioning correctly.
Overall, taking all the above into account, I think its more likely than not that the cash was 
correctly dispensed and therefore I find Barclays decision not to refund Mr B reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Im sorry Mr B has found himself without this money  
but I cant fairly hold Barclays liable for that.
I recognise the time Mr B spent trying to sort this out and Barclays have admitted their phone 
lines were busier than usual at the time. I think the compensation amount of £50 is a fair 
amount to recognise this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman