DRN-3202874
The complaint
Mr W complains about a due diligence review carried out by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
and the service he received in connection with this.
What happened
Mr W has an account with HSBC. He says the account has been open for four decades, 
hasnt had any regular income coming in for the last 20 years and has a relatively small 
balance. In 2021, HSBC carried out a due diligence review of his account. He says this 
involved many communications with HSBC, causing considerable annoyance and 
inconvenience on his part.
Mr W says he recognises the need for HSBC to conduct reviews of high value accounts. But 
he says it makes no sense to focus on his account. He says that HSBC shouldnt carry out 
reviews on accounts which have a balance or turnover below a certain level and that the 
review of his account wasnt proportionate.
Mr W is also concerned about the way the review was conducted. He says that the emails 
he received from HSBC followed the pattern of phishing emails, asking him to provide 
personal information by replying to an unsecure email and threatening negative 
consequences if he didnt do so. He provided the information through HSBCs secure email 
system but says the process for signing into that was arduous and overly complex. He says 
that HSBC also unnecessarily insisted on speaking to him over the phone.
When Mr W complained to HSBC, it said that it was following its due diligence initiative and 
that this was in line with guidelines set by the Financial Conduct Authority. HSBC said it had 
written to Mr W, but the mail had been returned so it had contacted him by email. It said it 
needed information from him to complete the review and that it needed to speak to him as 
part of this. It said that, if Mr W chose not to provide the information, it may decide to end its 
relationship with him. HSBC said that it couldnt change its approach, but it recognised the 
upset and inconvenience it had caused Mr W. It accepted that it had made mistakes in its 
communications with him and paid him £100 as an apology.
Mr W wasnt happy with HSBCs response and came to this service. Our Investigator 
thought that HSBC had acted fairly and didnt ask it to do any more. But Mr W didnt agree 
and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 places extensive obligations on regulated financial 
businesses. These cover the entire period of their banking relationship with a customer. This 
legislation, together with other regulations and guidance includes rules about customer 
identification and due diligence. Its up to each financial business to put in place its own 
measures to comply with the regulations and businesses have some discretion as to how 
they apply the regulatory requirements.
So its right for HSBC to have procedures in place to safeguard customers accounts. Its for 
HSBC as a business to decide exactly what those procedures are and how they are carried 
out. What Im looking at is whether it acted fairly and reasonably in applying those 
procedures here.
Mr W says that HSBCs checks were disproportionate to the risk posed by his account and 
that it should concentrate its efforts elsewhere. I understand his point of view. But I dont 
think its unreasonable for HSBC to adopt certain checks and requirements for all customers. 
I dont think the information it sought from him here was unreasonable, even having 
considered what hes said about the status of his account. 
Mr W is also unhappy with the way the review was carried out. Firstly, hes concerned that 
HSBC sought personal information from him by unsecure emails, which he has likened to 
phishing emails. I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to contact him by email. Thats 
because it had tried writing to him and the mail had been returned. If Mr W was concerned 
about whether the emails were genuine, he was able to contact HSBC by other means to 
check this. 
The communications from HSBC said that it might have to restrict his account if it didnt 
receive the requested information. As this was a potential step in HSBCs procedure, I think 
it was fair for HSBC to let Mr W know this. I dont find that the tone was threatening, so I 
dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in this respect. 
I understand that Mr W didnt want to provide the requested information by unsecure email 
and I think that was reasonable. But he was able to provide it by secure email, which I think 
was a reasonable way of overcoming his concerns. So I dont find that he suffered a 
detriment as a result of the email contact from HSBC.
Mr W says that the sign-in process for HSBCs secure email system is arduous and needs 
changing. I understand that the process was frustrating for Mr W, although he was able to 
complete it and provide the information in this way. Its for HSBC to decide what systems it 
has in place and it says it has noted Mr Ws feedback. Im not going to ask it to do any more 
as its not the role of this service to tell a business to change its IT systems.
Mr W says that HSBC hounded him to make a telephone appointment and says a call was 
unnecessary. As above, I understand his point of view, but I dont think it was unreasonable 
for HSBC to include a phone conversation in its review process or to apply that process to 
Mr W. HSBCs agent couldnt get through to Mr W on the phone and he says it was probably 
because the calls were marked as spam by his network provider. Although this added to the 
frustration for Mr W, I havent seen anything to suggest it was HSBCs fault that the calls 
didnt connect.
Its in the nature of checks like this that they do sometimes cause customers inconvenience 
and Mr W clearly experienced annoyance and inconvenience. I dont think HSBC acted 
unfairly by carrying out the checks and I think the checks were reasonable. But it did make 
some mistakes in its customer service, which added to the frustration for Mr W. HSBC has 
already acknowledged that and has paid Mr W £100 as compensation. I know Mr W isnt 
happy with that outcome and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I think £100 is a fair amount in 
the circumstances here, so Im not going to ask HSBC to do any more.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman