DRN-1133400
The complaint
Mr W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy alongside a credit card in 2012.
What happened
In late December 2011 Mr W applied for a credit card. After he received the card in 
January 2012, he contacted Capital One to activate it - and at the same time Capital One 
says it sold him a PPI policy. The cost of the PPI was charged to the account, so he'd repay 
the extra charge with interest in line with the terms and conditions of the card.
Mr W thinks the PPI was mis-sold. Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it 
should be upheld. Mr W didn't agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mr W knew he had a choice about buying the PPI. Mr W says 
he didn't know he'd taken out the PPI, and that nothing was mentioned about PPI. I've 
thought about this alongside the other information I've seen about the sale.
I see Mr W didn't select PPI as part of his original application for the credit card - and he 
didn't opt for it when Capital One sent him the credit agreement in early January 2012. The 
PPI was added two weeks later after Mr W contacted Capital One to activate his card.
I've seen a copy of the sales script used around this time. Though I can't be sure this was 
followed exactly, I think this is the best evidence I have about what was likely to have been 
discussed during any sales call. I see the script requires the sales agent to give information 
about the policy and then expressly ask whether the consumer wants PPI added to the 
account. Capital One have also sent us its records from the time, showing that Mr W 
contacted them and, as well as applying for the PPI, also updated his email address.
Given what I've said above, I think it's most likely that Mr W knew he'd bought a PPI policy, 
even if he doesn't now remember doing so. And I think he'd have known he had a choice, 
and chose to buy the policy.
Capital One didn't recommend Mr W buy the policy - so it didn't need to check if it was right 
for him. But Capital One did need to give Mr W the information he'd need to work out for 
himself whether he wanted it.It's possible the information Capital One gave Mr W wasn't as clear as it should have been. 
But Mr W chose to buy the policy - so it looks as though he wanted this type of cover. He's 
told us he'd only get sick pay from his employer for less than three months - this policy would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance of the card every month for up to a year. He also said 
he'd have to rely on friends or family to meet his repayments if he was off work sick or lost 
his job - and while I accept they might have wanted to help if they could, I don't think this 
help was guaranteed to be available when Mr W needed it. I've seen nothing to suggest the 
policy wasn't affordable to Mr W. So I don't think better information would have put him off 
buying it.
This means Capital One doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
 Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Mr W, that was unfair. 
 To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I've thought about everything else Mr W has said. But this doesn't change my conclusion.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold, so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I don't award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman