DRN-3652209
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont reimburse money he lost to an 
investment scam.
What happened
The details of what happened are well-known to both parties, so Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some of the key events here.
In May 2020, Mr L made two payments totalling £2,500 to a business Ill refer to as R. The 
payments were made using his HSBC debit card. At the time, Mr L believed that the 
payments were to fund an investment. He now believes that R was operating a scam. 
In November 2020, Mr L requested HSBCs assistance in recovering his funds. He also 
complained that it knowingly allowed him to make payments to a fraudulent business. 
HSBC didnt agree that it had done anything wrong and refused to provide a refund. It also 
declined to raise a chargeback and said that Mr L had been too late in making a claim.
Our investigator didnt agree that R was operating a scam, so HSBC didnt do anything 
wrong in letting the payments through. She also concluded that a chargeback claim was 
made too late, and it was unlikely to have been successful in any event.
Mr L disagreed and asked for his complaint to be escalated to an ombudsman. I issued my 
provisional decision earlier this month and explained that I intended reaching the same 
overall outcome as the investigator but for slightly different reasons. 
I gave both parties an opportunity to provide further comments. Neither party provided 
anything further for me to consider. So, what follows is my provisional decision made final.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mr L is going through a difficult time. Losing a large amount of money in this 
way is distressing. Id like to reassure him and HSBC that although Ive only summarised the 
background above, so not everything thats happened or has been argued is covered, Ive 
considered everything thats been submitted in its entirety.
Im aware that R was regulated in another jurisdiction at the time of Mr Ls payments. It was 
also able to passport into the UK and offer its services here. Generally, businesses that 
submit themselves to regulatory oversight  even if in another jurisdiction  tend to be 
legitimate. In this case, I note that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published a 
warning in June 2020 that R was using unauthorised celebrity endorsements as part of its 
marketing strategy and was enticing consumers into scams. The FCA revoked Rs 
permissions to operate in the UK.
While these events happened after Mr L had made both the payments he disputes, they help 
build an overall picture of Rs operations. It is my judgement that R was likely operating 
illegally with dishonest intentions. 
Recovery
While I think that R was likely operating a scam at the time of Mr Ls payments, the 
chargeback scheme rules dont automatically entitle him to a refund based on these 
circumstances.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme run by card issuers whereby the card 
scheme operator  Visa in this case  will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between a 
merchant and a cardholder if it cant be resolved between them. 
There are rules to the scheme  set by the card scheme operator  which means that there 
are only limited grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback 
to be considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply to when a chargeback 
can be raised by the card issuer. 
Under Visas scheme rules, for issues such as the one pertinent to this dispute, Mr L would 
have needed to evidence that:
he attempted to resolve the dispute with the merchant and, if that was unsuccessful, 
he cancelled the service; 
his investment account had funds to withdraw on the date he requested the 
withdrawal; and
he requested a withdrawal equal to or less than the funds available in the investment 
account.
In addition to this, Mr L would needed to have submitted his claim within 120 days of when 
he was expecting to receive the service, and within a maximum of 540 days from the 
transaction processing date. 
Its unclear at this time if or when Mr L attempted to request a withdrawal. So, I cant 
determine whether his chargeback claim was made within the 120-day time limit. But even if 
Mr L had requested a chargeback within the relevant time limits, Im not persuaded that it 
would have been deemed valid by Visa. From the information Ive seen, it doesnt appear as 
though Mr L was in possession of the required evidence when he contacted HSBC. Or, that 
he would have been able to provide it if had been requested at the time. So, I dont think that 
HSBC could have reasonably attempted a chargeback claim on Mr Ls behalf.
Prevention
While I dont think that HSBC could have done more with regards to the recovery of Mr Ls 
funds once it was made aware of the situation, Ive also considered whether it ought to have 
intervened before allowing any of the payments to be made.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of an investment scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result.
What this means is that as a starting point Mr L is liable for these transactions unless theres 
evidence that HSBC could and should reasonably have done more to protect him and that 
this would have made a difference to his decision-making. 
Ive taken into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice, 
and what I consider good industry practice at the time (some of which Mr L has referred to in 
his submissions). HSBC ought to have been monitoring accounts to counter various risks, 
have systems in place to identify unusual transactions, or other indicators, that its customers 
were at risk of fraud and, in some situations, make additional checks before processing 
payments, or declined them altogether, to protect its customer from possible financial harm 
from fraud.
The FCAs warning about R wasnt published until after Mr L had made the payments. Ive 
considered the information Mr L has provided about R which includes warnings and alerts 
published by various regulatory authorities before he made the payments. Some of them 
state that R was operating in certain jurisdictions without being registered. And others are 
indicative of questionable sales and marketing techniques. But theres no mention of R 
operating a scam in any of these warnings. 
Given this, I wouldnt have expected HSBC to have picked up payments to R as being 
suspicious solely based on the merchant name. 
I also dont consider any of the amounts involved to be so unusual or out of character such 
that they ought to have triggered HSBCs systems. I say this because just in the days before 
the first transaction to R, Mr L made a payment for £10,000. A bank must balance the extent 
to which it intervenes in payments to try and prevent fraud against the risk of unnecessarily 
inconveniencing or delaying legitimate transactions.  
For completeness, even if I were to conclude that the disputed transactions ought to have 
triggered HSBCs systems  either in response to earlier warnings about R or due to the 
transaction value  the fact that R was allowed to undertake regulated activities in the UK at 
that time would have outweighed any suspicions it had. So, I dont think that HSBC would 
have had cause for concern even if it had intervened at the time of the payments.  
In summary, I dont think that HSBC ought to have prevented these authorised payments 
from being sent. And I dont think that chargeback was an option. 
Mr L has submitted a redacted copy of an investigators assessment on another case about 
R, which was brought to us by another complainant, where we upheld the complaint. I cant 
comment on the investigators assessment on another complaint. I must make my own 
findings based on the evidence available to me. But I would just say that each case is 
considered on its own merits. The circumstances of the two cases are different, not least 
because claims made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 dont apply to 
payments made using a debit card. 
I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr L. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. But I can only fairly make an award if I think HSBC 
caused, or contributed to, his loss. For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not persuaded 
that it did.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman