DRN-3595369
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB Bank) is holding him liable for several 
transactions made using his TSB Bank debit card which he argues he did not authorise.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Mr M disputes receiving his new TSB Bank debit card  and PIN  which was used 
to make several transactions on 2 and 3 May 2021.  These transactions were six ATM 
withdrawals amounting to £845.94; and one online payment for £0.10.  In addition to these, 
there were several other attempted transactions which were not successful.   
Mr M raised this matter with TSB Bank in an attempt to recover his money.  As this did not 
happen, he raised a complaint which he also referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  In short, she 
thought that Mr M had authorised the disputed transactions.  She also held that TSB Bank 
had acted reasonably by not cancelling Mr Ms debit card after it failed to contact him to say 
his card was being used for online spending.  For these reasons, the investigator did not 
uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M did not accept the investigators findings.  As an agreement could not be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
I am satisfied from the technical evidence TSB Bank has provided that Mr Ms genuine card 
was used to make the disputed transactions concerned. 
Before dealing with the disputed transactions themselves, I first need to consider whether 
the card and PIN in question were compromised  that is, could a third-party have 
intercepted these when TSB Bank sent them to Mr Ms address.  On this point, I have seen 
no persuasive evidence to suggest Mr Ms card and PIN were compromised  in fact, I can 
see that Mr M received two previous cards and PINs without any issues.
That said, I will indulge the proposition that a third-party intercepted Mr Ms card and PIN.  
However, having thought about this carefully  reflecting on the evidence before me  I am 
not satisfied that a third-party made the disputed transactions without Mr Ms consent.  I will 
explain why:
There was no balance enquiry made at the start of the events we are concerned with.  
This is the first thing I would expect an opportunistic fraudster to do, so they could 
ascertain how much money was in Mr Ms account and spend accordingly.
The first balance enquiry made was after a total of five attempted/successful 
transactions  again, this is not consistent with fraudulent behaviour.
The IP address used to login to Mr Ms TSB mobile app on 2 May 2021, matches the 
IP address used to make the first disputed attempted transaction.  Further, the IP 
address used to login to Mr Ms TSB app several times before the events concerned, 
matches the IP address used to make one of the disputed attempted transactions.  In 
my view, it seems unlikely a fraudster would be using the same IP address as Mr M  
particularly given the fact there is no evidence to suggest Mr Ms mobile phone or 
online banking details were, for example, compromised.
To my mind, the above is not indicative behaviour of a fraudster.  I am particularly persuaded 
by the fact that the alleged fraudster did not attempt to drain the full balance of Mr Ms 
account immediately  instead attempted/made relatively small transactions spread over 2 
and 3 May 2021.
I acknowledge Mr Ms points about his post, working patterns and that IP addresses can be 
hacked etc.  However, taking all the above points together:
I have not seen any persuasive evidence to suggest Mr Ms card and PIN were 
compromised; and
Even if I could accept this proposition, I am still not satisfied that a third-party made 
the disputed transactions without Mr Ms consent.
It follows then that I do not consider TSB Bank did anything wrong by not cancelling Mr Ms 
card when it failed to reach him in the first instance.  In my judgment, on balance, it is more 
likely than not that either Mr M authorised the disputed transactions by making them himself, 
or authorised another to do so by providing them his consent.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman