DRN-4103734
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Zopa Bank Limited held her responsible for a loan she didnt take out.
What happened
Mrs V disputes taking out a loan of £25,000 from Zopa Bank in June 2017. She suspects 
that this was taken out fraudulently by a friend of hers.
Zopa said it hadnt made any mistake. The address used in the loan application was one  
Mrs V had an association with. The bank account used to receive the loan funds was one 
that matched Mrs Vs details. Calls had been made in 2018 about the loan payments which it 
said were a voice match to Mrs V. There was nothing to support her details being 
compromised.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said she had received 
direct information from the financial business holding the account the money was credited to. 
There was no fraud claim about this account, contrary to what Mrs V had told Zopa Bank. 
Those account details matched to information used on the Zopa Bank application. There 
were repayments made to the loan until May 2019. Mrs V had a role at a company with the 
same registered address as used for the loan and bank account. And the call recordings 
provided by Zopa Bank from 2018 and 2022 sounded similar but our investigator said she 
isnt a voice expert.
Mrs V is represented in this complaint and didnt agree. She said that the calls in 2018 were 
made by her friend and only the accents were similar. The email used was one her friend 
had. The loan application stated that she owned a property outright, but she had a mortgage 
as shown on her credit report at the time. She wanted an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely.
I note that Mrs V accepts that she agreed to have a role in a company and says this related 
to her friends business. I can see from publicly available information that she became a 
director in July 2016 and was also later named on a confirmation statement as the sole 
shareholder. The company was in existence until 2019. 
The postal address of that company was one used for a current account with a financial 
business in Mrs Vs name that was opened in November 2016. The disputed loan was taken 
in June 2017 and paid into that account and then the money paid out. Not all the loan 
repayments were made and there were calls Ive listened to about payment plans and then a 
default on the loan in 2018. Mrs V has provided evidence she had taken a residential 
mortgage at a different address in October 2016. She says she found out about the Zopa 
Bank loan when a third party who had bought the debt contacted her by a letter shes 
provided sent to that address on 11 November 2021. She has reported this matter to police, 
and she has provided some messages she says are from the friend although using a 
different name.
Our investigator asked Mrs V for details of the business arrangements with her friend. She 
responded that there was no written agreement and she only mentioned it verbally and 
requested her passport. Ive seen the information from the financial business that operated 
the current account. There has been no report of fraud investigated and this was considered 
to be a genuine account. The address was never changed there. One small payment 
seemed to have been made to Mrs V from the account in September 2017.
The details for the Zopa Bank application used the same address as the company and were 
consistent with those held by the other financial business operating the current account.
Neither Zopa Bank nor Mrs V have provided any expert analysis of the voice recordings. Im 
not in a position to make a finding that the person calling in 2018 was the same as the one in 
2022 and that both were Mrs V. What I can say though is that I agree that it would be 
unlikely for a fraudster to continue to make repayments to a loan account. And when there 
were financial difficulties to discuss these in detail with Zopa Bank a number of times in 2018 
and agree to and keep up with payment plans.
The credit report provided by Mrs V shows her association with the address used in the loan 
application and a default on this loan in July 2018.
The evidence is that Mrs V willingly entered into some sort of business arrangement with the 
person she says has defrauded her. The evidence is also that the account at the other 
financial business was most likely a legitimate one and there has been no fraud claim about 
that. Mrs V was recently able to obtain bank statements without issue for that account. There 
has been no outcome of proven fraud from any police investigation based on Mrs Vs 
explanation of what happened. Taking into account this background and what is known 
about the loan application, payment history and calls Im not persuaded that I have sufficient 
to find its most likely that Mrs V was the victim of identity theft and fraud. So, I conclude that 
it was reasonable for Zopa Bank to hold her responsible for the loan. I can appreciate that 
she will be very disappointed given what is at stake for her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman