DRN-4161822
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vitality Life Limited has turned down an incapacity claim he made on a 
personal income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr M is insured under a personal income protection policy. The policy provides cover for Mr 
Ms own occupation and includes a deferred period of one month.
Unfortunately, in January 2022, Mr M was signed-off work for a month by a GP who 
recorded that he was suffering from work-related stress. This followed Mr M hearing a racist 
slur at work, which caused him a great deal of distress. Mr M made an incapacity claim on 
his policy. Vitality accordingly requested information about Mr Ms claim, including his 
medical records from his GP.
Mr M was subsequently signed-off by his own GP, who noted that Mr M was suffering from 
depression. Mr M was referred for talking therapies and prescribed anti-depressant 
medication. 
Despite chases from Vitality, Mr Ms GP didnt send it Mr Ms medical records until April 
2022. At that point, Vitality appointed an independent medical examiner (IME), a consultant 
clinical psychologist, to visit Mr M. The IME didnt think that Mr M was off of work because of 
a formal mental illness. Instead they considered that Mr Ms condition was due to work-
related stress. And they felt that Mr M was fit to return to work. On that basis, Vitality 
concluded that Mr M hadnt met the policy definition of incapacity and it turned down his 
claim.
Mr M appealed. He felt the IME had left out important information from their report and that 
theyd caused him significant additional upset. He provided a report from a consultant 
psychiatrist, Dr N, whod diagnosed Mr M with anxiety and depression. Dr N had 
recommended that Mr M should undergo eye movement desensitisation and reprocessing 
therapy (EMDR) and they considered that Mr M wasnt fit for work.
Vitality considered Dr Ns report and it wrote to Dr N to ask for further information. Based on 
Dr Ns response, Vitality maintained its claims decision. It still wasnt satisfied that Mr M had 
met the policy definition of incapacity. However, it did recognise that it hadnt handled Mr Ms 
claim as well as it shouldve done and that thered been delays in responding to him. So it 
sent Mr M a gift hamper, along with offering him a total of £300 compensation.
Mr M remained unhappy with Vitalitys decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. 
He provided both this service and Vitality with a further report from the psychologist whod 
led Mr Ms EMDR sessions. This report stated that it wouldve been detrimental for Mr M to 
return to work at the time they first saw Mr M in June 2022. Mr M had been able to 
successfully return to work in August 2022, following EMDR treatment.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. While she sympathised with 
Mr Ms position, she didnt think there was enough medical evidence to show that hed met 
the policy definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period and afterwards. Instead, she 
felt the evidence indicated that Mr M was most likely suffering with work-related issues, 
rather than a defined medical condition. So she thought itd been fair for Vitality to turn down 
Mr Ms claim. And she was also satisfied that Vitality had offered Mr M fair compensation for 
its failings in the handling of his claim.
Mr M disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He felt that facts hadnt been properly 
presented and that Vitality had dragged out the claim so that the investigator had been 
unable to see whether or not he should genuinely have been off work. Mr M felt the IME had 
been appointed with the intention of allowing Vitality to turn down the claim and he reiterated 
that he felt bullied by the IME. Mr M queried why Dr Ns evidence wasnt sufficient to show 
he met the definition of incapacity, given it showed hed been given a diagnosis, was on anti-
depressant medication and had been referred for EMDR. He also questioned why Vitality 
hadnt requested his GP records for the period after April 2022, which he considered would 
support his position. He provided a detailed timeline of events, which showed the number of 
claims handlers and staff whod been involved in the assessment of his claim and he set out 
the delays hed experienced in being given a definitive decision on it. And he added that 
thered also been a delay in Vitality issuing its final response to his complaint.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think it was fair for Vitality to turn 
down his claim and Ill explain why.
First Id like to reassure Mr M that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Im 
very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr M needing to make a claim and I 
dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has been for him and his family. Within 
this decision though, I havent commented on each and every point hes made and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the policy and the available medical and other evidence, to decide whether I 
think Vitality handled Mr Ms claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis of Mr Ms 
contract with Vitality. Mr M made a claim for incapacity benefit, given he wasnt fit for work. 
Vitality provided cover for Mr Ms own occupation. So I think it was reasonable and 
appropriate for Vitality to consider whether Mr Ms claim met the policy definition of 
incapacity.
Ive turned then to look at Vitalitys definition of incapacity. This says:
A standard definition means that illness or injury makes you unable to perform the material 
and substantial duties of your own occupation. These are the duties that are normally 
needed to do your own occupation and that cannot be reasonably omitted by you or your 
employer. This means that in order for Vitality to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that it was 
Mr Ms illness which prevented him from carrying out the material and substantial 
duties of his own occupation, for the entirety of the deferred period and afterwards. The 
policy doesnt cover Mr M being unable to work at a specific workplace or for specific clients. 
Vitality needs to be satisfied that Mr M would be unable to carry out the material and 
substantial duties of his own occupation at any workplace or for any employer. 
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mr Ms responsibility to provide Vitality with enough 
evidence to demonstrate that his illness had led to him being unable to carry out the duties 
of his own occupation for the full one month deferred period and afterwards.
Vitality assessed the evidence Mr M provided in support of his claim, including with clinical 
staff.  While it sympathised with Mr Ms position, it concluded that he wasnt suffering from a 
mental illness which prevented him from carrying out the generic material and substantial 
duties of his own occupation. Instead, it felt that Mr M was suffering with a reaction to the 
racist slur and other issues at work, which most likely didnt amount to a defined medical 
problem. So Ive next looked at the available medical and other evidence to assess whether I 
think this was a fair conclusion for Vitality to reach.
Ive first considered the medical certificate issued by the GP on 16 January 2022. This 
signed Mr M off work until 13 February 2022 and the reason for absence was stated to be 
stress at work. This medical evidence covered broadly the entirety of Mr Ms one-month 
deferred period and doesnt indicate that Mr M was suffering with a diagnosed medical 
condition at this point. 
Mr Ms GP issued fit notes which stated that Mr M wasnt fit to work due to depression and 
anxiety  which can be defined medical problems. So I think it was reasonable and 
appropriate for Vitality to appoint an IME to assess Mr Ms condition. Id reassure Mr M that 
Ive seen no evidence to indicate that the IME was appointed with any intention of allowing 
Vitality to decline the claim. Based on all Ive seen; I think the IME was separate and 
independent of Vitality.
The IME concluded that Mr M was affected by a mixed anxiety and depressive reaction, but 
that he wouldnt meet the criteria for a substantive health problem. The IME stated that Mr 
Ms presentation and narrative account did not suggest he was formally ill in mental health 
terms. The IME added that they did not observe obvious mental health symptoms when 
(they) assessed Mr M. I would describe Mr M as sensitive to criticism and his reaction to 
what has been happening is essentially work-related stress.
Additionally, the IME stated that: As far as I am able to determine, his sick leave is due to 
work-related stress and not a formal mental illness or problem. I did not detect any other 
factors affecting him. 
Based on the IMEs evidence, I think it was reasonable for Vitality to conclude that Mr M 
wasnt suffering from an illness which prevented him from carrying out the material and 
substantial duties of his own occupation. And so I think it was fair for Vitality to conclude that 
Mr M hadnt met the definition of incapacity at this point.
Mr M provided evidence from Dr N and so I find it was appropriate and reasonable for Vitality 
to take the evidence of a consultant psychiatrist into account. Mr Ns first letter of June 2022 
states that Mr M had mixed anxiety and depressive disorder. The letter said that Mr Ms 
current episode does appear to have been triggered by work-related stress and his reaction 
to overhearing a racist slur about him. The report stated that Mr M was not fit for work and referred to his continuing to take medication and being referred for a course of EMDR.
Dr N provided a further letter to Mr Ms GP on 7 July 2022. This included the following:
Still does not feel ready to return to work. Worry about not being able to cope with triggers at 
work. Not worked since mid-January.
Following its review of Dr Ns evidence, Vitality asked Dr N for further information. Dr N 
wrote to Vitality in August 2022. The letter said that Dr N had diagnosed Mr M with mixed 
anxiety and depressive disorder  he was suffering from moderate depression and severe 
anxiety. The letter stated the following:
I first met (Mr M) on 1 June 2022, when he presented with a 6 month history of anxiety and 
depression following a racial incident at work. There had also been a background of his 
feeling anxious at work due to a sense that he was being micro-managed by his clients.
Subsequently, Mr M provided evidence from the psychologist whod carried out the EMDR 
with him. This report was dated 30 September 2022. The psychologist stated that Mr M 
would not have been fit to work when they saw him in June 2022 and that Mr M had suffered 
from symptoms of depression. The letter also included the following:
The incident at work had resurrected issues of feeling very betrayed that were linked to 
previous incidents in (Mr Ms) lifeIn addition, it is also clear that the place or work where 
the racist comments had been made rendered the place of work a barrier to his returning I 
have no doubt that the demands of his job and home life were a contributing factor to his 
fatigue
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence thats been provided. Its important I 
make it clear that Im not a medical expert. In reaching a decision, I must consider the 
evidence provided by both medical professionals and other experts to decide what evidence 
I find most persuasive. Its clear that Mr M was suffering from symptoms which can also be 
indicative of a significant mental health condition. Im conscious that Mr M was prescribed 
medication and referred to EMDR therapy by a consultant psychiatrist, who diagnosed him 
with anxiety and depressive disorder.
But, taking into account the totality of the medical and other evidence available to Vitality, I 
think it was reasonable for Vitality to conclude that the evidence showed that Mr M was 
suffering from an understandable reaction to the very difficult situation in which he found 
himself and the racist slur he overheard. And that the main reason for Mr Ms absence was 
likely the workplace stress he was experiencing as opposed to a mental health condition. It 
also appears, from the psychologist and IMEs accounts, that Mr Ms main triggers were 
workplace issues. And so I think this evidence points towards the cause of Mr Ms upsetting 
symptoms being the workplace issues and slur he experienced. I think it indicates too that he 
was suffering from an understandable reaction to his personal circumstances, rather than a 
functionally impairing mental illness which prevented him from carrying out his role.
This means I dont find that Vitality acted unfairly when it decided that Mr M wasnt 
suffering from a significant mental health condition, during the deferred period, or indeed 
afterwards, which prevented him from carrying out the material and substantial duties of his 
occupation. On this basis then, I dont think it was unfair for Vitality to conclude that Mr Ms 
absence wasnt due to an incapacity in line with the policy definition. Instead, I think it fairly 
concluded that Mr Ms absence was more likely due to workplace stress and a reaction to his 
circumstances. 
I appreciate that Mr M feels that Vitality handled his claim poorly and prejudiced his position in terms allowing us to decide whether he was genuinely off work. Vitality acknowledges that 
it didnt handle Mr Ms claim as well or promptly as it could and should have done. I dont 
doubt this was upsetting and frustrating for Mr M, but I dont think he was prevented from 
providing evidence or having his claim fairly assessed. Vitality has sent Mr M a hamper and 
its offered him compensation of £300. In my view, this is a fair and reasonable award and 
its open to Mr M to contact Vitality to accept it should he now wish to do so.
Mr M is unhappy that Vitality only obtained medical reports up until April 2022. If Mr M would 
like to obtain further medical evidence in support of his claim, he is able to do so and to 
accordingly send this on to Vitality for review. If hes unhappy with the outcome of any further 
assessment of any new evidence, he may be able to make a new complaint about that issue 
alone.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy for Mr Ms position, I find it was fair and 
reasonable for Vitality to turn down his income protection claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman