DRN-1894225
 
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Southern Rock Insurance Company (Southern Rock) unfairly 
voided his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a claim made against Mr As policy Southern Rock took the decision to void his 
policy and make him responsible for the costs it incurred settling the third-party claim. Mr A 
has complained separately about the amount Southern Rock has paid for the claim and this 
will not be covered in this decision.
Southern Rock has explained that it made the decision to void Mr As policy because he 
didnt disclose previous accidents to it and told Southern Rock he was the owner and 
registered keeper of the insured vehicle when he wasnt.
Mr A explained that although he hadnt told Southern Rock about the other accidents, he 
was using the same broker at the time of his most recent accident and the broker, as part of 
the claims process would have done a search for previous accidents. It should then have 
forwarded this onto his current insurer. The broker would also have seen at the time that Mr 
A wasnt the registered keeper of the vehicle as he had to provide a copy of the V5.
Mr A went on to explain that although he wasnt the registered keeper of the vehicle, he 
made the payments to the finance company and as such was the owner.
Our Investigator considered Mr As complaint. He explained that Mr A had a responsibility to 
check his documents and provide accurate information to Southern Rock. He also explained 
the approach we take to this type of complaint and found that Southern Rock had acted fairly 
when voiding Mr As policy and keeping his premium. He found that Mr A had been reckless 
when providing information to Southern Rock.
Mr A disagreed with our Investigator, so this complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If Southern Rock is looking to rely on the information that hasnt been disclosed by Mr A to 
void his policy we would need to see that it had asked clear questions to obtain the 
information, and that Southern Rock wouldnt have offered Mr A insurance had he answered 
the questions correctly. This is called a qualifying misrepresentation.
Southern Rock would only be able to keep the premiums Mr A has paid if the qualifying 
misrepresentation was considered deliberate or reckless.In order to consider whether Mr A had made a qualifying misrepresentation, and whether it 
was considered deliberate or reckless, I have looked at the information available from 
around the time Mr As policy was incepted. 
Mr A renewed his insurance policy through a broker in September 2018 after receiving 
renewal documents in the month before. The documents showed the insurance was being 
placed with a different insurer, and as is common they contained a warning that if 
information was not correct the policy could become invalid.
The renewal documents stated the following:
"Are you the owner and registered keeper of the vehicle?" 
The answer was given as "Yes" and Mr A didnt correct it.
The documents also stated:
"have you or any additional drivers:...in the last 5 years had any accidents, claims or losses, 
irrespective of blame in connection with any vehicle owned or driven by you or them"
The answer was given as yes which is accurate. 
However, there is also further information within the document. There is a table that gives 
"Accidents within the last 5 years". Under this only one claim is listed.
Southern Rock explained that it found three other claims in addition to that listed on the 
document one that took place in 2018, and two others from 2016. Southern Rock has also 
provided evidence to show that it would not have offered Mr A insurance if he had given 
accurate information.
I think the documentation sent to Mr A when his policy was due to renew was clear. While I 
accept Mr A was making finance payments for the vehicle he was neither the owner or 
registered keeper.
From the information we have I see no reason why Mr A wouldnt have had knowledge of 
who the registered keeper of the vehicle was, or the previous accidents. I also cant see any 
reason why he shouldnt have disclosed the correct information upon receiving the renewal 
documents.
I understand That Mr A feels the broker he used should take responsibility for not updating 
Southern Rock with the information on his behalf. But this complaint is against Southern 
Rock and I cannot consider the actions of the broker here. In any event on receiving his 
renewal documents Mr A had a responsibility to disclose correct information and as the 
questions were clear on the documents, yet were not updated by Mr A, I think Southern 
Rock has acted fairly when deciding to void his policy and retain the premiums.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman