DRN-3054045
The complaint
Ms T has complained about the excess Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) charged when she 
made a buildings insurance claim.
What happened
Ms T contacted Aviva to make a claim for damage to her roof. Aviva accepted the claim and 
carried out repairs. At the end of the claim, Ms T was told she needed to pay the £450 
excess for the claim. Ms T said she wasnt made aware that she would have to pay this and 
refused to pay it.
When Ms T complained, Aviva didnt uphold her complaint. It said an excess was payable for 
each claim and was included in her policy documents. Aviva said Ms T had also suggested 
she had been coerced by Aviva into making claims but it had found no evidence of this. It 
said it would reduce the excess to £350 and Ms T could arrange to pay this in instalments.
So, Ms T complained to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said an 
excess was payable for the claim and this has been explained in the policy documents. He 
said Aviva has acted reasonably by reducing the excess to £350.
As Ms T didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require Aviva to do anything further. I will explain why.
Im aware that Ms T was concerned about a range of issues related to the damage, including 
whether it would be covered under the policy and who would carry out the work. Im also 
aware of what Ms T said about her personal circumstances and why this caused particular 
anxiety for her.
Ive listened to phone calls between Ms T and Aviva about the claim. When Ms T first spoke 
to Aviva to discuss the claim, she told the call handler that a builder was coming out that day 
to look at the damage and that depending on the cost of the work compared to the excess, 
she might not want to claim. At this point, it wasnt clear what the cause of damage was and 
the call handler said they could discuss the claim further once the builder had visited. So, Ms 
T was aware there would be an excess to pay. However, Im aware that the amount of the 
excess wasnt discussed during this conversation or during a follow-up call Ms T made later 
that day.
It is common for an insurer to require an excess to be paid as part of a claim. Ive looked at 
what the policy documents said about the excess. The claim was accepted as an escape of 
water. The policy schedule said:
You will pay the first £450 towards any escape or freezing of water claim.
So, I think the policy documents explained the amount that was payable for this type of 
claim. I can also see that most other types of claims under the policy had a £100 excess, 
which is what Ms T has said she expected the excess to be. But, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Aviva should have charged a different excess amount, as this is what was 
described in the policy documents.
Aviva accepted that it didnt confirm the excess during the conversations about the claim and 
that the excess should have been collected earlier in the claim process. Aviva agreed to 
reduce the excess to £350 and also said this could be paid in instalments. Im mindful of the 
concern and distress expressed by Ms T, but I think Avivas offer to reduce the excess was 
reasonable in the circumstances and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that Aviva Insurance Limited doesnt 
need to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman