DRN-2976398
The complaint
Miss R has complained about a mortgage she has with Pepper (UK) Limited trading as 
Engage Credit, saying:
The judge  at a possession hearing in 2009  made it clear that she should pay £55 
extra a month towards the arrears and that no further charges or extra interest should 
be applied to the account.
Despite being notified of her holding her own household insurance, Pepper has 
continued to charge her for its own cover.
The mortgage was originally taken out with a different lender, so any reference to Pepper in 
this decision should be taken to mean that previous lender where appropriate.
What happened
Miss R borrowed £90,000 in February 2006. The mortgage was taken out on an interest-only 
basis over a 20-year term, with the advice given by an independent mortgage broker.
Unfortunately, Miss R almost immediately got into difficulties with her payments and the 
mortgage went into arrears. There was litigation on the account many years ago from which 
Miss R was ordered to pay her contractual mortgage payment plus £55 per month, otherwise 
the lender could seek possession of her property.
On 19 June 2020 Pepper received a complaint from Miss R. Pepper rejected the complaint 
but offered to reverse arrears fees totalling £78.50.
Miss Rs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He said that we had no 
power to consider a complaint about fees and interest debited to the account before 
June 2014 (six years before the date the complaint was received by Pepper). And having 
considered the account since that date he didnt think Pepper had done anything wrong.
Miss R didnt agree and so it was passed to me to decide.
Earlier this month I issued a decision explaining that we could only look at events since 
19 June 2014. I now issue this decision about the merits of the part of the complaint we can 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R says the judge  at a possession hearing in 2009  made it clear that she should pay 
£55 extra a month towards the arrears and that no further charges or extra interest should 
be applied to the account. That would have been an unusual order as generally interest and 
charges would continue to be paid and a judge wouldnt normally say otherwise. I would 
have expected the judge to have made that clear in the written order that was made if that 
formed part of their decision.
If Miss R feels the judges order didnt reflect what she believed had been said in court, then 
thats something she needed to refer back to the court at the time. Neither party has any 
paperwork to show the judge made such an order and therefore I cant say Pepper has done 
anything wrong in continuing to add interest and charges to the account in line with its 
standard terms and conditions. 
Since June 2014 Pepper has added the following arrears fees to Miss Rs mortgage 
account:
December 2015 £27.50 monthly arrears fee
February 2016 £27.50 monthly arrears fee
July 2016 £23.50 monthly arrears fee
In its response to Miss Rs complaint Pepper offered to reverse all three of those, and I 
consider that a fair offer in the circumstances. As there were no other monthly arrears fees 
for the period Im able to consider, then there is nothing further that I need to decide here.
Pepper has charged Miss R for Lenders Insurance as part of her mortgage when she says 
she held her own household insurance cover. 
In his assessment of the complaint in March 2021 our investigator said If you have been 
paying your own home insurance over the years, I think you should show evidence of this to 
Pepper and it should refund the premium it charged for each month you had your own 
insurance in place. Since then Miss R hasnt provided the evidence to us, or provided 
information to show shes sent the evidence to Pepper instead. 
When asked if Miss R had provided the evidence to it, Pepper said Looking at the account 
since Pepper (UK) took over administration in 2015, we have not received a schedule at all 
from the customer for any of the years and subsequently she is being charged our Lender 
Interest Only insurance as we need to protect the asset.
Ive looked at the letters Pepper sent to Miss R each year Those said they were to remind 
her that it doesnt hold a current insurance schedule and so it will charge Miss R for a 
Lenders Insurance policy. It said that if Miss R had her own insurance she needed to send a 
copy of the policy schedule to it.
As Miss R hasnt provided us with proof she provided her insurance schedule to Pepper 
each year when asked for it then I cant say Pepper did anything wrong in charging her for 
Lenders Insurance instead.
To close, I understand Miss R is unhappy that shes been unable to move her mortgage to a 
different lender due to the information that has been reported on her credit file. 
Pepper will continue to report arrears until Miss R pays all of her arrears off. Like all lenders, 
Pepper must report accurate information about how borrowers conduct their accounts, so I 
cant hold it liable for the fact Miss R has been unable to find another lender.
If Miss R is struggling with bringing the arrears down on this mortgage then she can speak to 
Pepper to see if there are any other options, either directly or with the help of someone 
trained to give her free debt advice - such as StepChange or Citizens Advice. Id encourage 
Miss R to contact Pepper (either directly, or via an agency as Ive explained above) and 
have an open and honest conversation about her circumstances and worries for both now and the future. Theyll need to work together and that means Miss R will need to be frank 
about her situation. And Pepper will need to listen to what she has to say and, fairly and 
sympathetically, see if theres a way to work with her to agree a way forward. 
But in terms of the complaint that was brought to us, I simply cant uphold it however much 
Miss R may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss R to accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman