DRN-2958079
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car he took on hire purchase from MotoNovo Finance Limited was not 
of satisfactory quality. He would like to reject it and end the finance agreement. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr T entered into a 49-month hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo. 
The car which was the subject of the agreement was a little over seven years old with a 
recorded mileage of just over 76,000. It had a purchase price of just under £6,000, and Mr T 
was to pay a deposit of £500 followed by monthly payments of £144.
Mr T says that by around June 2020 the car had developed transmission problems. He took 
it to a garage and was told it would cost around £3,000 to repair. 
Mr T complained to MotoNovo. It did not accept that it was liable for the repairs  given in 
particular the age of the car and its mileage. In September 2020 it arranged for an 
independent inspection of the car. That inspection concluded that the car needed immediate 
attention to its transmission but that the faults that had been identified were unlikely to have 
been present when Mr T acquired it. They were likely to be the result of wear and tear.
Mr T referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He did 
not believe however that MotoNovo was liable for the cost of repairs or that Mr T should be 
able to reject the car. In reaching that conclusion he referred to the independent inspection 
report and to the age, price and mileage of the car.   
Mr T did not accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
He commented that MotoNovo was not independent and suggested that was also true of the 
inspector and this service, He did not feel that the price he had paid for the car was 
acceptable in view of the problems he has had with it.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for 
similar reasons. 
The hire purchase contract was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in all the 
circumstances  including, for example, its age, price and mileage. In this case the car had a 
relatively high mileage and cost very much less than a newer, lower mileage model would 
have done. I think it was to be expected therefore that it some repairs might be needed at 
some point. 
I do accept of course that the repairs that were actually needed after about six or seven 
months were significant and expensive. But I note that an independent inspection concluded 
that they were in line with what might be expected of a car of this age and that it was unlikely 
the damage was present at delivery. I accept that was the case.
I note Mr Ts comments that MotoNovo is not an independent party here. That is of course 
true; its not independent for the same reason that Mr T, as a party to the dispute, is not. This 
service is, however, and I am satisfied that the technical report was carried out 
independently. I believe I can rely on its conclusions as an honest assessment of the cars 
condition. 
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the car was not of satisfactory quality.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require MotoNovo Finance Limited to take any further steps 
to resolve Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman