DRN-1198456
 
complaint
Mr C complains on behalf of his limited company, which I will call B. Briefly, Mr C complains 
that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not deal properly with his request to close Bs accounts. 
(I am aware that Mr C has made a separate complaint on Bs behalf, about Bs online 
banking, but I will not address that complaint in this decision.)
background
In this decision, I am only looking at Bs complaint about the closure of its bank accounts. 
One of our investigators looked at that complaint, but she didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong. Briefly, she said:
In April 2019, Mr C decided to switch Bs accounts away from HSBC. He used the 
switching service of a new bank in order to move those accounts.
In July 2019, Mr C contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service and asked for 
confirmation from HSBC that Bs accounts had been closed. He also asked HSBC to 
cease all communication with him and remove all his data from their system.
She thought Bs accounts were all transferred in a timely manner. She did note that 
Bs savings account with HSBC was not closed until August 2019  but she also said 
that HSBCs website explained that the switching service did not apply to savings 
accounts. She was satisfied that the savings account was closed within a reasonable 
period once HSBC had been asked to close that account.
 
Mr C did not accept our investigators findings. He told us that he had sent a full response by 
email, but despite searching our systems I have not been able to find it. I explained to Mr C 
that I would not take his response into account unless he sent it again, but he chose not to 
do so.
Mr C did explain that he considered all of the complaints he had made  both on his own 
behalf and on behalf of B  to be within the scope of my investigation. Broadly speaking, he 
said HSBC had failed to comply with specific regulations, terms, and conditions, and that the 
bank had acted unethically and failed to treat its customers fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments available to me in our file, in order 
to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Mr C has made arguments that I have not considered  in his email 
response to our investigators opinion  but I am satisfied that I have given him a fair 
opportunity to bring those arguments to my attention. I hope both parties will understand that 
I cannot take into account evidence that I have not seen.Mr C has made several complaints against HSBC, both on his own behalf and on behalf of 
B. I know he would like me to consider all of his and his companys complaints against 
HSBC in the round. But I cant do that.
I can see that another ombudsman has already explained why the Financial Ombudsman 
Service has no power to consider some of the complaints Mr C has made on his own behalf. 
I cant look at those complaints either, for the reasons given by my colleague.
I can look at the complaint Mr C made about Bs online banking, but I have addressed that in 
a separate decision.
Mr C is clearly very unhappy with HSBCs overall behaviour. The relationship between them 
appears to have broken down entirely, and I note that B no longer banks with HSBC. But 
looking only at the issues in this individual complaint  about the closure of Bs accounts  I 
do not consider that it would be appropriate for me to order HSBC to pay any compensation 
to B.
I am not satisfied that HSBC has made any mistakes in relation to the closure of Bs 
accounts. I agree with our investigator that Bs accounts were closed in a timely manner. Its 
savings account was not included in the switching service, but I cant see that HSBC did 
anything wrong in respect of that account.
HSBC is required to retain some information about entities (including limited companies) 
which have closed their accounts with HSBC. Precisely how to do that is a matter for 
HSBCs commercial discretion. I cannot see anything that I could fairly criticise in the way 
HSBC has chosen to exercise that discretion.
This complaint is only about Bs issues, and so I cannot comment on Mr Bs concerns about 
his personal data. In any event I understand he has referred that matter to the Information 
Commissioners office.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I do not require HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Laura Colman
Ombudsman