DRN-3792868
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a claim he made on a travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
In July 2022, Mr M flew abroad. He says the airline asked him to check his hand luggage 
into the hold, rather than carry it onto the plane. Unfortunately, when Mr M collected his bag, 
he noticed it was open and that some valuable items (iPads) had been stolen. He obtained a 
missing article report from the airline and made a claim on his travel insurance policy.
Aviva turned down the claim. It said the policy specifically excluded claims for valuable items 
or money which werent kept in a policyholders hand luggage. As Mr Ms valuables had 
been checked-in and carried in the planes hold, Aviva concluded that the claim for those 
items wasnt covered. 
Mr M was unhappy with Avivas decision, and he asked us to look into his complaint. He said 
that the policy didnt define what Aviva meant by hand luggage and that therefore, his claim 
should be paid.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought the policy made 
it clear that Aviva wouldnt cover claims for money or valuable items which werent carried as 
hand luggage. And he felt that hand luggage was the luggage a policyholder carried onto a 
plane with them.
Mr M disagreed. He felt that Avivas terms were intentionally unclear and had been left open 
to interpretation. He felt that he and his family had been let down.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down 
his claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ms policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether Aviva 
handled his claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Ms 
contract with Aviva. As Mr M says that iPads were stolen, I think it was appropriate for Aviva 
to consider the claim under the Your Belongings section of the policy. This says:
Well cover you if any insured persons belongings, valuables or money are lost, stolen or 
accidentally damaged during the trip.
The policy also sets out a list of specific exclusions which apply to claims made under this 
section of the policy. One of these says:
We wont cover
Valuables or money which is not kept in the insured persons hand luggage while theyre 
travelling.
Aviva has also defined what it means by valuable items. The policy says that valuables:
means jewellery, watches, items made of or containing precious metals or stones, 
binoculars, handheld games consoles and equipment, mobile phones, mp3 players, 
photographic or video equipment, e-readers, laptops, tablets and any accessories designed 
to be used with any of these including headphones.
From the evidence Ive seen, it appears that Mr Ms claim was for iPads which were taken 
from his bag. I think iPads can reasonably be treated as a tablet and that therefore, iPads 
would fall within Avivas definition of valuables. This means that in order for Mr Ms claim for 
his iPads to be covered, those items mustve been kept in his hand luggage while he was 
travelling.
It's clear Mr M feels that as Aviva hasnt defined what it means by hand luggage, the policy 
terms are open to interpretation. Where an insurer hasnt defined what it means by a 
particular term, we will generally consider the dictionary definition of that term and the plain 
and ordinary meaning of it. In this case, Ive considered the following dictionary definition of 
hand luggage:
When you travel by air, your hand luggage is the luggage you have with you in the plane, 
rather than the luggage that is carried in the hold.
Ive considered a plain and ordinary interpretation of hand luggage too. And I think it would 
be reasonable and common for most policyholders to understand the term hand luggage to 
mean baggage which they carried onto the plane with them and kept with them during the 
flight.
As such then, I dont find that Avivas policy wording is unclear on this point, or that its open 
to interpretation.
I appreciate that Mr M was asked to check-in his hand luggage, rather than keep it with him. 
I understand how frustrating it mustve been for him when he collected his luggage and 
found that his valuable items had been stolen while the luggage was in the custody of the 
airline. In my experience though, most, if not all travel insurance policies exclude claims for 
valuable items or money which are checked-in to a planes hold. And I cant fairly hold 
Avivas responsible for the airlines request, or Mr Ms decision not to keep the iPads with 
him during the flight.
On the basis of the evidence Ive seen, I dont think it was unfair for Aviva to conclude that 
Mr Ms claim for his stolen iPads was specifically excluded by the policy terms. And so while 
I sympathise with his position, I find that it was fair for Aviva to turn down this claim.
Mr M told us that some of his items had been damaged during the flight too. From the 
evidence, it seems that Mr Ms claim was for the iPads and that therefore, Aviva hasnt assessed a claim for any other damaged or missing items. Its open to Mr M to now make 
such a claim to Aviva for any lost or damaged items it hasnt already considered if he wishes 
to do so.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman