DRN-3899546
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) handled a claim 
under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D had a motor insurance policy with Admiral covering her car.
In mid-January 2022, Mrs Ds car was involved in an accident. She reported the damage to 
Admiral and made a claim.
Admiral arranged for one of its approved repairers, who Ill refer to as V, to repair the car. 
On 30 January, V said Mrs Ds car was booked in for repairs to commence on the 30 March. 
This date was later changed to 8 April.
During March, Mrs Ds policy with Admiral was due to automatically renew. She told Admiral 
she didnt want to renew, but Admiral still tried to do it.
She was unhappy about Admirals service, and she complained. 
Admiral changed the repairer to a second one, who Ill call F. 
F carried out the repairs from 19 April to 20 May and Mrs D was given a courtesy car during 
this period. 
Admiral didnt respond to Mrs Ds complaint within eight weeks, so Mrs D brought her 
complaint to this service. 
Admiral then responded. It said its service had been poor and offered Mrs D £300 
compensation, made up of £250 for her inconvenience, £25 for its complaints handling and 
£25 for how it handled the renewal of her policy. It said it would provide feedback to the 
appropriate staff.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ds complaint and didnt uphold it. She said thered been 
delays during the claim and Admiral had recognised this during its investigation. She thought 
its offer of £300 was fair.
Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators view. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why as I appreciate this will be a 
disappointment for Mrs D. 
This service has an informal approach and Im not going to respond to every point made by 
Mrs D. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues here. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I 
havent. Ive fully reviewed the complete file.
Ive looked carefully at Mrs Ds complaint, which covers several areas, and Ive taken the 
approach of grouping them together for ease of reading.
Firstly, Mrs D has complained about Admirals complaint handling. This service only has 
jurisdiction to look at regulated activities. As complaint handling isnt a regulated activity I 
cant comment on this aspect of her complaint.
I can see from the file that Mrs D has raised concerns about Admirals lifetime guarantee on 
its repairs, how the MOT on her car was handled and its failure to stop her renewal. I 
understand that these questions have now been answered, so I propose to deal with the 
remaining matters sent to me by Mrs D.
Delay
I can see from the file that Admiral took over four months to repair the damage to Mrs Ds 
car. Three months of this was waiting until the car could go to one of Admirals repairers for 
work to begin. Mrs D has told me about her crushing disappointment about not having her 
car repaired in a timely way, and her feeling of being moved back in a queue due to lack of 
capacity in the repairer.
It seems to me that a three month wait to have a car repaired is excessive. From the 
evidence I have, Admiral has said this was due to difficulty sourcing parts into the UK. Mrs D 
thinks its due to a lack of capacity in its repairers. I dont think a three-month wait is good 
service from Admiral, and I think its clear that its lack of capacity and changing dates has 
caused Mrs D distress.
I can also see Mrs D has complained about F taking about a month to actually repair the car. 
Mrs D discovered the reason for it taking this long was due to a delay obtaining parts. Im not 
going to mention exactly why this happened here, but its clear Mrs D considers this to be 
entirely the fault of Admiral.
When Im considering cases like this, I am trying to establish whether a company has acted 
fairly and reasonably, and if it hasnt, then what is the extent of the impact on a customer. I 
can see that Mrs D was provided with a courtesy car whilst her car was with F, so although 
the repairs took longer than she would expect, I cant see that she was inconvenienced 
during the time her car was with the repairer.
Service
In her communication with me, I think Mrs D has made it clear shes most unhappy about the 
way Admiral dealt with her. I can see shes mentioned several times she didnt receive a call 
back, or a response of any kind. She also feels that the tone of one particular email was 
sarcastic. 
I can see that Admiral has agreed with many of Mrs Ds points about its service in its final 
response, and the compensation it has awarded takes this into account. 
Looking at the evidence, I can see why Mrs D was so unhappy. Admirals service seems to 
me to have been poor throughout Mrs Ds claim. Ive thought about the tone of the particular email and I think Admirals explanation that it 
was trying to provide Mrs D with a positive outcome is fair. But I can appreciate why Mrs D 
wouldnt agree with this after her claims experience up to that point.
And its Admirals consistently poor service throughout her claim that seems to have caused 
Mrs D much of her distress. She describes her treatment as being terrible, unjustified and 
sometimes humiliating. 
Summary
Ive said above that I think Admirals service has been poor during Mrs Ds claim. She wasnt 
called or contacted when it said it would, and the lack of capacity in its repairers meant that 
her claim was delayed. Its clear to me that its actions have caused Mrs D distress and 
inconvenience. 
Admiral has agreed its service has been poor and its apologised and agreed to pay Mrs D 
£250 compensation, with further payments totalling £50 for its complaints handling and how 
it dealt with Mrs Ds renewal.
Ive thought about the level of compensation thats appropriate for Mrs D as Admiral made a 
series of errors over a period of a few months which caused Mrs D distress. Having done 
this, I think Admirals offer of compensation for its poor service is fair, and Im not going to 
ask it to pay more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman