DRN-2866641
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Argent Wealth Limited trading as 
Lifestyle Wealth Management (AWL) to transfer benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) 
pension to a personal pension.
What happened
Mr B was advised by AWL to transfer his deferred benefits from his DB pension to a 
collective retirement account in 2018.
A fact find and a risk questionnaire were completed and signed by Mr B in January 2018 
which show:
Mr B was 55, single, in good health and had two grown up children who didnt live at 
home anymore.  He earned £48,000 per year. His expenditure (essential and non-
essential) was £19,000. 
He wanted to retire at age 60 and said he required an annual income of £30,000 and 
a lump sum of £30,000. 
The DB benefits were the major proportion of his overall retirement provision. 
He had no knowledge of investments. His attitude to risk was low to medium.
A suitability report shows the transfer was recommended as Mr Bs objectives could not be 
met in the DB scheme. The objectives were recorded as:
Improving lump sum death benefits. It was important that any remaining fund would 
be paid to his dependants.
Investment flexibility as he required a plan with sufficient underlying fund choice and 
he wanted to employ a service which monitored his investments on a regular basis 
so that it could cater for his retirement needs.
Personal control over the pension pot and not leave the transfer offer open to further 
potential changes, whether that be in value, legislation or some other factor
Access to funds in tax efficient manner through future drawdown
Mr B complained to AWL in 2019 about the advice he received. He said he wasnt given all 
the relevant information to make a suitably informed decision and that AWL didnt explain all 
the risks and disadvantages of a transfer. AWL rejected his complaint.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators upheld his complaint. He 
thought AWL had given unsuitable advice. During a review of the complaint another 
investigator decided that this case shouldnt be upheld. So the complaint was referred to me 
for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Bs complaint. Both parties were invited to 
provide further comments. Mr B accepted the decision. AWL disagreed and provided further 
comments which I thank them for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered AWLs points, my decision remains that I uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain my reasons below.
Provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said:
The starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. AWL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs 
best interest. (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
satisfied the transfer was in his best interest. Ill explain why.
financial viability
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. 
The investment return required to match the DB pension at retirement at age 60 (critical 
yield) was 8.74% per year if benefits were taken in full or 5.82% if taken as a lump sum 
payment with a reduced pension. The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was 
given which I can refer to was published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before 1 October 2017, and was 3% per year for 4 years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
low-medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. And I think Mr B was likely to 
receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a 
result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. So based on this alone, a transfer wasnt in 
Mr Bs best interest.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. 
death benefits
Mr B was single at the time of the advice and his children were adults in their early twenties 
who didnt live at home. The DB scheme offered a lump sum of around £120k if Mr B died 
before retirement. However, if he died once he had started to take benefits in the DB 
scheme, there would be no death benefits paid to his children. If Mr B transferred out of the DB scheme, he could nominate his children as beneficiaries for remaining sum of the 
pension fund which before retirement would be the whole transfer amount of £880k plus any 
returns on this sum.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. So telling Mr B he could leave a large 
sum to his children when he died would have sounded a lot more attractive than the DB 
scheme where they would receive nothing if he died in retirement-which would sound unfair 
to many people. 
However, whilst death benefits might be important for consumers, there generally shouldnt 
be a disproportionate emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. Mr B was in 
good health and so more focus should have been on ensuring Mr B would receive the 
required income over a long period of time. 
If one of the drivers for a transfer are death benefits then life insurance should be considered 
as an alternative. The suitability report mentions that a whole of life policy for the sum 
assured of £880k was considered and I have seen the quote which shows cover of this level 
would have cost Mr B £1,446 per month. The report says Mr B wasnt interested in life cover 
because:
He was more concerned about the format of death benefits from the existing 
scheme-not that he could put extra life assurance in place
His preference was to have death benefits to be paid in a lump sum and not as 
income like in the DB scheme
He didnt want the additional commitment associated with a life insurance premium.
However, I find none of this persuasive. The life cover would have paid out a lump sum, just 
like Mr Bs new pension plan. Im also not surprised that Mr B wasnt interested in the very 
expensive whole of life cover quote. I think providing this quote was misleading. Whole of life 
cover is generally a lot more expensive than a term assurance policy. 
A term assurance policy could have been adjusted to a sum assured Mr B thought his 
beneficiaries really needed. And it would have been guaranteed. Whilst the pension transfer 
value was high and if Mr B died within a few years after retirement the death benefits would 
have been significant, these benefits would have decreased every year by Mr B withdrawing 
income and could be further eroded by ongoing charges and possible low investment 
returns. Mr B was in good health and so I dont think a term assurance policy for a 
reasonable amount of cover would have necessarily been prohibitively expensive. The 
additional cost of life assurance needed to be weighed up against the lower retirement 
benefits he would receive by transferring. I havent seen evidence that this was all properly 
explained. 
Overall, I dont think obtaining better death benefits was sufficient reason for Mr B to transfer 
away from the DB scheme.
investment flexibility and personal control
Mr B had no investment experience, a low to medium attitude to risk and not much of a 
capacity for loss, so I cant see persuasive evidence why he would have had a particular 
need to have access to a multitude of underlying funds, rather than just receive guaranteed 
benefits that needed no management either by him or an adviser.
In the fact find Mr B ticked a box to say he wanted to break all ties with his (ex-) employer 
and would prefer to move his funds to an individual plan which was under his control. There is no further explanation in the suitability report or the advisers notes from his first meeting 
with Mr B in January 2018 what his concrete concerns were in this regard. It just refers to Mr 
B not wanting to leave the transfer offer open to further potential changes, whether that be in 
value, legislation or some other factor which is fairly vague.
Mr B says his main concern was the possibility of his benefits in the DB scheme being 
reduced or lost on the grounds that the company had transferred some of the staff to a new 
subsidiary company. Discussions amongst colleagues about this had been rife at the time. I 
think this is plausible. Ive seen on the DB schemes website that the trustees had 
announced a restructure of the scheme in April 2017. So its possible Mr B was concerned 
his DB benefits were at risk or he felt he didnt want to miss out on a cash transfer value 
which could reduce in future. However, it was the advisers role to ease those concerns and 
provide objective information. Theres no evidence that Mr Bs pension was in any way at 
risk. And if the scheme had been in real trouble, AWL should have explained about the 
protections of the Pension Protection Fund. Also, if it was in Mr Bs best interest to stay in 
the scheme, any speculation of a lower transfer value in future shouldnt have been his 
concern. 
income needs and flexible drawdown
Mr B completed a fact find in which he said his preferred and realistic retirement age was 60 
and he required a lump sum of £30k and an annual income of £30k in todays prices in 
retirement. The advisers file note at the time said:
He wished to be able to work to 60 then take a lump sum of £30,000 and tax efficient 
income of £30,000 per annum made up of tax-free cash and income, he wishes to be able to 
take more in the early years when he will be most active and reduce the amount when the 
State pension starts and as he gets older. [Mr B] confirmed that the tax-free cash and 
income available from [the DB scheme] would not be enough to meet his objectives.
It was noted Mr B wanted a flexible drawdown arrangement which his DB scheme couldnt 
offer. Flexibility does sound attractive to many consumers. However, it was the advisers 
responsibility to test whether Mr B really needed this flexibility to the point where it was more 
important than higher, guaranteed retirement benefits. And whether his income needs could 
be met by staying in DB scheme. 
I cant see that Mr Bs income needs in retirement were properly explored, i.e. what were his 
plans in retirement and his actual income needs to achieve them. The fact find showed his 
expenditure at the time including money for clothes and socialising was £19k and its worth 
noting that his largest outgoing (£8,400) were mortgage payments at the time. With an 
outstanding mortgage of only £12k this likely would have been paid off before retirement and 
his outgoings would have decreased to around £11k. 
Mr Bs pension entitlement in the DB scheme from age 60, at the time of the advice, was a 
pension of £26,929 per year or a tax-free cash lump sum of £137,779 and a reduced annual 
pension of £20,666. The retirement income of around £27k from the DB scheme wasnt far 
off the £30k Mr B had provided on his form and the net income from this sum would have 
exceeded Mr Bs expenditure and significantly so after the mortgage was paid off. So I would 
have expected the adviser to explore with Mr B whether a guaranteed income at this level 
would have been enough to meet his needs. 
AWL provided cash flow strategy models which they ran in 2020 to support their case. AWL 
argued that the new pension, at age 60, would let Mr B take a £30k cash lump sum and then 
£35k per year until state retirement age at 67. His income from the pension would then 
reduce to £20,711 and continuously reduce every year after that. It would be supplemented by Mr Bs state pension. However, if Mr B really did require more income in the earlier years 
of retirement, he could have achieved the same £35k income level until age 67 in the DB 
scheme. He could have taken the reduced pension of £20,666 and after taking £30k as a 
lump sum, supplemented it with the remainder of around £107k of the tax-free cash lump 
sum for the seven years until state retirement age at 67. Contrary to the model in the new 
pension, Mr Bs income would have increased every year after that.
Again I cant see that AWL considered this option for Mr B. Mr B would have lived on more 
tax efficient income until state retirement age and I cant see that slightly lower tax payments 
after age 67 were more attractive than having a higher income going forward.
In summary, AWL havent demonstrated that Mr B had a real need for income flexibility in 
retirement and if he did want a higher income in his early retirement years, he could have 
achieved this by taking benefits from the scheme.
AWLs reason for not staying in the scheme was that Mr Bs objectives couldnt be met there. 
COBS 19.1.6G (4) (e) sets out that alternative ways to achieve a clients objectives without 
transferring out of a DB scheme should be taken into account. But alternatives to achieve 
death benefits for his children in a reasonable and cost-effective way or to have a higher 
income in his early retirement years through the DB scheme werent properly explored by 
AWL.
I dont think Mr B was given an objective picture of his options here. Whilst advantages of 
staying in the scheme and disadvantages of transferring are referred to in the suitability 
report, the transfer is justified throughout the report by suggesting Mr Bs objectives simply 
cant be achieved by staying in the scheme. 
Its possible that Mr B was attracted by the idea of transferring. He might have heard from 
colleagues that this is what they were doing. And I dont doubt that flexibility, control and 
higher death benefits would have sounded like an attractive option. But AWL wasnt there to 
just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interest.
In summary, I think Mr B could have covered his income needs with the benefits from his DB 
scheme and would have been entitled to a guaranteed and secure income which 
continuously increased with inflation. He could have bought additional life cover to make 
sure his children were covered when he died-if he really wanted to. Mr B had no investment 
experience. His attitude to risk was low to medium and his DB scheme was his only pension 
provision. He was advised to transfer into a drawdown plan which was costly and wasnt 
able to support the same level of income that his DB pension would, particularly if Mr B lived 
beyond his mid-eighties, which given that he was in good health at age 55 was a real 
possibility. 
I think it wasnt in Mr Bs best interest to transfer out of his DB scheme in order to obtain 
lower retirement benefits, only to have flexibility and control he didnt really need and 
different death benefits which he could have secured in alternative ways.
opt-out of DB pension
Mr B says AWL also advised him to opt out of the DB pension before he was advised to 
transfer his deferred benefits. There is no evidence of written advice about this. However, 
AWL have said that Mr B turned up to their meeting in January 2018 with opt out forms 
which would suggest he was still in the scheme then. Also documents from the scheme 
show that Mr B was a member of the scheme until the end of February 2018. So on balance 
it seems Mr B opted out after his meeting with AWL. The adviser did a transfer analysis in 
January and Mr B signed transfer out forms for the new pension provider on 18 January. So I think its more likely than not AWL verbally recommended him to transfer in January with a 
formal recommendation in April after they had received the guaranteed transfer value quote 
from Mr Bs DB scheme. In order to transfer his benefits Mr B needed to opt out of the 
scheme, so I think its likely AWL suggested to Mr B this needed to happen in order to 
proceed.
I think for the reasons set out earlier in this decision, AWL should have recommended Mr B 
to stay a member of his scheme and not transfer his benefits. And if they had done so I think 
Mr B likely would have stayed in the scheme as an active member with the possibility to 
retire on his DB benefits at age 60.
AWLs response to my provisional findings
In summary, AWL made the following key points which Ill address in turn.
1) Mr B will likely not be financially worse off by transferring. 
The relevant information to consider is not the critical yield but the cash flow 
modelling AWL provided-which although not contemporaneous does demonstrate Mr 
Bs financial position in retirement after a transfer is far better than the critical yield. 
The critical yield is of limited relevance as Mr B was not planning to take an annuity 
with his personal pension funds. Since pension freedoms were introduced, they 
hadnt seen a single case where a customer would transfer with the aim to buy an 
annuity in retirement. Critical yields are likely to be unachievable due to low annuity 
rates. 
I had said the DB scheme income would increase after age 67 whereas in the cash 
flow model provided the new pension income would decrease. AWL calculates this 
additional income from the DB scheme to be around £85k up to Mr Bs average life 
expectancy age of 82. In comparison the cash modelling shows that after a transfer 
Mr B would be left with a residual sum of £360k at age 82/83 allowing for a low rate 
of return of 2% or £1.1m in the event of a return of 5%. So theres a good prospect 
the overall value of the personal pension will outweigh the DB benefits.
They also pointed to other various calculations, for example that by the time Mr B 
reached age 82 the scheme would have provided benefits of £772,000 whereas the 
personal pension on a low rate of growth could provide £946,755 (taking an income 
of just under £50k p.a. reducing after state pension age). Or that it would take Mr B 
25 years to get the same £880k benefit of the transfer value (not allowing for fees or 
growth). In summary, they say the benefits after transfer will very likely exceed the 
DB benefits. 
I understand AWLs point that Mr B is unlikely to take an annuity with his new pension which 
is the basis of comparison when using a critical yield. However, the critical yield does still 
give a good indication of the value of benefits Mr B was giving up and the regulator deems it 
an important part of the decision-making process. AWL also said themselves in the suitability 
report that they deemed it good practice to explain the critical yield so Mr B could better 
understand the potential commitment [he was] making. The report said Mr B understood 
that:
on the face of it you would be worse off by transferring if you used the critical yield 
assessment only, however its important for you to exert control over your pension pot now 
[] and your existing occupational pension will not enable you to make use of flexible 
drawdown which you require in order to be able to access your pension funds in a flexible manner. 
You want to ensure death benefits are in place []
Your objectives simply cannot be met with the existing occupational plan [] 
AWLs reason for transferring at the time wasnt that Mr B would have overall higher benefits 
in his new pension. The advice was very much justified by focussing on Mr Bs other 
objectives.
Having said all that, I have not solely relied on the critical yield here and I have taken into 
account the cash flow illustrations AWL have provided. They show scenarios with low growth 
in the new pension (2%) and medium growth (5%) using the regulators projection rates and 
after charges have been applied. Given that Mr B had a low to medium attitude to risk and 
keeping in line with these projection rates, I think the low growth scenario might have been 
achievable, possibly slightly more. However, I dont think its likely he would have been able 
to rely on ongoing average return rates of 5% given his risk appetite. And there was still the 
risk that even the low growth rates would not be achieved due to a downturn in markets 
and/or an increase in fees.
AWL has made comparisons to the low risk model, so I think its reasonable to do the same. 
Accepting AWLs calculations on face value they agree that Mr B would have around £85k 
less income from age 67 to his life expectancy of 82 if he transferred (following a similar 
income strategy in both pensions). I also note that if he lived longer than age 82, which was 
a real possibility, or if the low growth rate wasnt achieved, this difference could have been a 
lot more. I appreciate some of this difference could have been reduced by possible slightly 
higher returns in the new pension, but this wasnt guaranteed and overall I still think its likely 
hell receive lower retirement income benefits overall. 
I appreciate that after his death there possibly would have been a lump sum remaining in the 
fund which could be passed on to beneficiaries. The longer Mr B lived of course the less this 
amount would be. However, as explained in my provisional decision I think the primary 
objective of pension advice should have been to consider Mr Bs retirement income in the 
long-term and death benefits could have been secured in alternative ways without sacrificing 
some of his pension income or taking any risk with his pension. 
I acknowledge that AWLs other example demonstrates Mr B could receive higher benefits 
from his new pension if he drew a much higher income in the early years of retirement and 
used all of his pension funds by age 82. However, I dont think this is a reasonable scenario 
as prudent pension planning would have required Mr B to plan for the eventuality of him 
living longer and making sure he wouldnt run out of funds. 
I accept that if Mr B died early in his retirement he would possibly be better off in his new 
pension as he would be able to leave a large sum to his children. However, if he did enjoy a 
longer life - and given his good health at age 55 this was a real prospect  he would likely 
receive a considerably lower overall retirement income and/or run the risk of depleting his 
pension before he died. I dont think Mr B had the capacity to take this risk as this was his 
only retirement income. 
2)  I seem to have assumed that AWL pressed the point of death benefits and the 
transfer was sold on this basis. However, theres no evidence of this in the paperwork 
and I appear to simply be relying on Mr Bs testimony in the context of him trying to 
get a complaint upheld which is unacceptable. AWL denies pressing he point of 
death benefits to drive the transfer. Death benefits were important to Mr B and they 
were discussed, but thats as far as it goes.I have given no indication what a reasonable sum or term of insurance would have 
been. A term policy for 20 years (up to age 80) for £360k would cost just over £2k a 
year, but if Mr B died at or after his life expectancy it wouldnt pay out anything. In 
contrast, by transferring, Mr B would likely be able to leave a lump sum to his 
dependants whenever he might die (at least £360k but possibly considerably higher). 
So term assurance may not provide any benefit and so wouldnt meet Mr Bs 
objective, so a whole of life policy was the only suitable option which was not feasible 
due to costs-even at half the insured sum.
In the absence of an appropriate life insurance solution and leaving a significant sum 
to his dependants being important to Mr B, transferring could certainly be a 
justification to say a transfer was in his best interest. As long as the transfer was 
affordable and could meet Mr Bs income needs, which it could.
I havent relied on Mr Bs testimony here. The fact find says Mr B was very concerned about 
his children receiving nothing from his pension if he passed away. This was completed by 
the adviser, so I dont know whether Mr B had significant concerns about his death benefits 
before he met with AWL or whether these only emerged after AWL pointed out the 
differences between the DB scheme and the private pension. 
Either way, I dont doubt that the option of leaving a lump sum to his children would have 
been attractive and is something Mr B would have liked. However, AWL didnt explore to 
what extent he was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for this or 
have a sensible conversation about the level of death benefit he would have found 
acceptable. I havent seen evidence that there were balanced discussions around this 
subject. 
There is no evidence that his children had a need for a lump sum. They were in their early 
twenties and there is no indication they were dependent on Mr B. The scheme also provided 
a lump sum of around £120k if Mr B died before he retired which his children could have 
benefitted from if he died in the five years before age 60. At that point Mr Bs children would 
have been 26 and 28 respectively and even less likely to be financially dependent on him. 
For many people I think a lump sum death benefit in these circumstances of 4 or 5 times the 
annual pension income (like Mr Bs pre-retirement death lump sum) would have seemed a 
considerable amount to leave for beneficiaries. So I think an insured sum of £100-200k could 
have been explored. This possibly could have made whole of life cover more affordable or a 
term assurance to age 85 or 90 could have been considered. There was still a risk no 
payment would be made if he died after the term assurance had expired. But similarly the 
longer Mr B lived, the higher was the risk that his funds would have depleted to a point 
where only a small sum or no sum would be paid out. The key issue here is that none of this 
was discussed with Mr B at the time. The suitability report gave the impression that Mr Bs 
objective of a lump sum could only be achieved through a transfer or an unaffordable whole 
of life policy which I think was misleading.
3) AWL had accepted that investment and income flexibility might not justify a transfer 
in themselves, but these were factors that needed to be taken into account in an 
overall consideration of whether a transfer was in Mr Bs best interest. Flexibility can 
be a very important consideration and Mr B said he may wish to take higher sums in 
the early years of retirement and reducing payments and tax later. An inflexible 
scheme wouldnt support this.
As explained in my provisional decision I cant see that Mr Bs need had a particular need for 
investment flexibility or control of his funds had been established. And he could have 
achieved a level of income flexibility in the DB scheme by supplementing his income in the early years of retirement with the remainder of his tax-free cash lump sum (after taking £30k 
from it that he said he required) and reduce his income when he started to receive a state 
pension.
Overall, Im still satisfied that the advice given to Mr B was not suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk free and increasing income which allowed him to meet his income 
requirements and I think reasonable alternatives were likely available to provide a lump sum 
to his children if this is what he wanted. Mr Bs attitude to risk was low to medium and his DB 
scheme was his only pension provision. The new pension was not likely to support the same 
level of pension income in the longer term. And he was exposed to the risk of depleting his 
funds before his death if low investment returns and the effect of charges couldnt sustain Mr 
Bs income withdrawals, particularly if he lived a very long life, which given his good health at 
age 55 was a real possibility.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. I consider he 
would have remained a member in the DB scheme. AWL must therefore undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
AWL may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
AWL receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes AWL 
to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. I require Argent Wealth Limited trading as Lifestyle Wealth 
Management to pay compensation as set out above. The calculations should be presented 
to Mr B in a clear and easy to understand format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman