DRN-3020914
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial 
Services (BMWFS).
What happened
In May 2018 Mr K acquired a two-year-old used car under a four-year hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. The car cost around £80,000, had covered 2,000 miles, and Mr K 
paid a £5,000 deposit. Payments were around £1,000 per month, with a balloon payment of 
around £44,500. The agreement had an annual mileage limit of 8,000. 
A few different parties were involved in setting up the agreement. Mr Ks broker acquired the 
car from a third-party dealership who Ill refer to as O. Mr Ks broker then sold the car to 
BMWFS. And BMWFS supplied the car to Mr K under its hire purchase agreement. 
Mr K says the car broke down in March 2020. At this point it had covered around 30,000 
miles. He says the car juddered and suddenly lost power when he was driving on a dual 
carriageway. Dashboard lights came on and Mr K had the car towed home. He was unable 
to turn it on or move it. O was closed because of the Government imposed national 
lockdown due to Covid-19. But Mr K got in contact with it when it opened. Around this time, 
Mr K also spoke to BMWFS and asked for support because his income had reduced due to 
the impact of Covid-19 on his work. 
BMWFS offered Mr K a three-month payment deferral due to the impact of Covid-19 on his 
finances. This was subsequently extended to six months. 
Mr K took the car to a manufacturer franchised dealer in April 2020. It said the problem with 
the car was a crankshaft/crankshaft bearing failure. And Mr K says the car required a new 
engine. 
Mr K says the manufacturer wasnt willing to help him with the repair cost because there was 
a missing service. Mr K complained because he says O told him the car had a full-service 
history. Around this time, Mr K also found out the car had been seized by the police in 
May 2016 and had been stored with O before being sold on. He says the car missed a 
service while being held by the police. So, Mr K was unhappy and felt the car wasnt as 
described. He also said he thought the issue that caused the car to fail was a known defect 
for the model of car he acquired. 
BMWFS werent willing to help Mr K with the repairs. It said that as it obtained the car from 
Mr Ks broker, it couldnt be held responsible for any misleading information from O. It said 
that Mr Ks broker would have to take up the issue with O direct. BMWFS also said given the 
car had covered over 30,000 miles and taking into account how long Mr K had use of it, it 
thought the car was of satisfactory quality. 
In August 2020 Mr K spoke to BMWFS and said he wanted to hand the car back because he 
couldnt afford the repayments. BMWFS went through Mr Ks options including selling the 
car, part exchanging it and voluntary termination. And around this time Mr K had decided to 
pay to replace the engine himself. He sourced an engine for £3,714 and had it fitted for 
£2,215.76. 
Mr K got the car back in October 2020 and decided to voluntarily terminate the agreement. 
Once excess mileage charges and damage charges of around £2,400 were added, Mr K 
was left owing £25,370.49.
Mr K asked our service to look in to things. He didnt want to pay the voluntary termination 
shortfall. He wanted a refund of the repair costs and compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience. He also complained about having to pay for a hire car for the time hed been 
without use of a car. He says hed lost earnings due to the problems and that it had 
negatively affected his health. Mr K also says that if one of the parties involved had helped 
him, he would have kept the car. But paying for the engine replacement cleared out his 
savings so he decided to hand it back. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided to uphold it. In summary, our 
investigator thought, on balance, the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. He said he didnt think 
a reasonable person would expect an engine to fail at around 30,000 miles. He noted the 
garage that replaced the engine had said: 
This is not something that could have been affected by user input, potentially by lack of oil 
or heavy oil degradation from lack of servicing. My honest opinion is that it was a sudden 
failure by manufacturing weakness, however this is only an opinion and is not grounded from 
any analysis.
He also noted the manufacturer franchised dealer had said:
Cause: 
Low incidence of crankshaft failure are being encountered, caused mainly by incorrect 
location of the main bearing shells during assembly, or through rotation of the shells during 
normal use. A new procedure has been implemented to ensure:
more rapid resolution of customer concerns, and
greater visibility of failure models in order to improve repair process and parts 
delivery.
Action:
For any suspected crankshaft/bearing failure, please contact your local Dealer 
Technicalteam for details of the enhanced customer handling procedure.
Our investigator also thought about whether there was enough evidence to demonstrate the 
car wasnt as described. But as the original advert was no longer available, he didnt think 
there was sufficient evidence to demonstrate this. And he didnt think the fact the car had 
been in police storage would have impacted the complaint outcome. Our investigator thought Mr K would have kept the car had BMWFS fairly paid for the 
repairs. And he recommended BMWFS:
Refund the deposit of £5,000*.
Pay a refund of rentals between the months of March 2020 and October 2020 as the 
car was unusable* (if any payments were made in that time).
Refund the repair costs of £5,929.76*.
Pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience.
Remove the outstanding balance on the agreement after Mr K had voluntarily 
terminated, £25,370.49.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ks credit file in relation to the agreement.
* pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
But he didnt recommend BMWFS pay Mr K in relation to any loss of earnings or for the cost 
for his hire car. 
Mr K agreed with the recommendation, but BMWFS didnt. BMWFS said Mr K sourced the 
car himself and that there was no evidence the car was mis-sold. And it said there was no 
evidence the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. It said Mr K had covered 
nearly 30,000 miles and that he went over his annual mileage limit  indicating the car was 
of satisfactory quality.
I issued a provisional decision that said:
The car was supplied to Mr K under a regulated hire purchase agreement. Our service is 
able to consider complaints about these sorts of agreements. BMWFS is the supplier of the 
goods under the agreement and is responsible for dealing with a complaint about their 
quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr K entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory 
quality, fit for their intended purpose, and as described. 
The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the 
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances. In a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and mileage at the time of supply and the cars history.
In Mr Ks case, the car supplied was used and had covered around 2,000 miles, so thered 
be different expectations than if it was a brand-new car. But its worth pointing out that Mr K 
paid around £80,000 for the car and it was only two years old with very low mileage. So, I 
dont think he would have expected any significant issues with it for a fair amount of time.Goods to be of satisfactory quality
Based on what Ive been told, along with the diagnosis provided, Im satisfied there was a 
fault with the car that led to Mr K needing to replace the engine. And Ive thought about 
whether or not the fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality. 
One the one hand, the fault became apparent when the car was around four years old. Mr K 
had been driving it for two years and it had covered nearly 30,000 miles. There was also a 
missing service  which Mr K says is the reason the manufacturer wouldnt assist him. The 
manufacturer franchised dealers notes also said the fault could have been caused through 
rotation of the shells during normal use.
But on the other hand, amongst other things, satisfactory quality covers durability. For cars, 
this means the components must last a reasonable amount of time. Of course, durability will 
depend on various factors. But I dont think a reasonable person would generally expect 
there to be a fault with an £80,000 car of this age leading to the need for an engine 
replacement when it had covered less than 30,000 miles, providing it had been looked after.
Ive then gone on to consider the manufacturer franchised dealer comments on the fault. It 
has described the fault as being caused mainly by incorrect location of the main bearing 
shells during assembly. I think this is very important. The dealer is saying the fault is mainly 
caused by a manufacturing issue. And there seems to be a special process thats been 
implemented for cars affected by the issue. So, while its not proof there was a 
manufacturing issue in this case, I think it shows it was more than likely  which is what I 
need to establish.  
In addition to this, while not conclusive, the garage that replaced the engine also thought that 
the fault was probably caused by a sudden failure due to a manufacturing weakness  which 
supports the view there was an inherent defect. 
Ive also thought about the missing service and how much thats likely to have affected 
things. Having looked at the service history, the following services took place:
27 January 2016 when the car had covered 9 miles
4 May 2018 when the car had covered 2,034 miles
6 February 2019 when the car had covered 13,344 miles
So while there was a missing service in 2017, I note that the car had not covered many miles 
and had two subsequent services carried out prior to the fault in 2020. Im not able to say 
exactly what impact the missed service had on the car. But, based on all the circumstances 
following it, and considering what the manufacturer franchise dealer has said, I dont think I 
can safely conclude the missed service was likely the main contributing factor to the fault.  
Having weighed everything up, despite the car being four years old and having covered 
30,000 miles, on balance, I think there was a manufacturing problem that led to the failure  
meaning the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. So, I think theres been a breach of contract. Goods to be as described
Ive also thought about Mr Ks complaint that the goods werent as described. Like our 
investigator pointed out, theres a lack of evidence on how the goods were described. And 
Im also mindful that BMWFS did not buy the car direct from the business, O, that Mr K says 
mis-sold the car. It was bought from Mr Ks broker. So, its fair to say the arrangement was 
slightly more complicated than usual. But given Ive already found there to be a breach of 
contract, I dont think I need to now make further findings on how the goods were described. 
Covid-19 support
For completeness sake Ive also thought about how BMWFS handled Mr Ks request for 
support as his income had reduced due to the impact of Covid-19. BMWFS offered Mr K a 
six-month payment deferral. This is the type of support the Financial Conduct Authority set 
out in its guidance titled Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for 
firms. So, I think BMWFS has acted fairly here and provided Mr K with the support he 
required.
Conclusions
Seeing as Mr K had to pay to fix a fault that, in my view, made the car of unsatisfactory 
quality, as a starting point, I think its fair that hes reimbursed the cost for this  along with 
interest. 
Another thing for me to decide is whether the shortfall should be removed, and Mr Ks 
deposit refunded. On the one hand it looks like Mr K had some financial difficulties around 
the time he decided to voluntary terminate the agreement. Hed told BMWFS that he couldnt 
afford to make the payments. But on the other hand, hes also told BMWFS that he would 
have carried on with the agreement had he not had to pay for the engine to be replaced. He 
said that the repair cost cleared out his savings. 
Ill never know what would have happened had things gone as I believe they should have 
done. It was an uncertain time for many people during the pandemic. But, on balance, Im 
willing to accept that Mr K would not have wanted to hand the car back had it not been for 
the problems relating to the fault. Hed paid a substantial amount towards the agreement, so 
he had a lot to lose by giving the car back. The cost of the repairs was nearly £6,000. Had 
Mr K not had to use this money to fix the car, he could have used it towards paying for the 
car for another six months while he was looking to get back on his feet. 
Taking all this into account, seeing as I dont think, on balance, Mr K would have elected to 
voluntary terminate the agreement had it not been for the faults, I think its fair the shortfall is 
waived. And seeing as Mr K now has to effectively start again, I think its only fair he 
receives his deposit back as well with interest. 
I agree with our investigator that Mr K shouldnt have to pay for the use of the car for the 
time he wasnt able to use it due to the fault. So, payments between March 2020 and 
October 2020 should not be due. It looks as though this is the period Mr K had his payments 
deferred. So, for the avoidance of doubt, if thats the case, the payments should be waived. BMWFS has also charged Mr K around £2,400 after he handed the car back. This is made 
up of £2,137.42 for excess mileage and £272 for damage to the alloys. Mr K hasnt said he 
disagrees with the charges for the mileage or the alloys. But for completeness sake, Ive 
reviewed both charges. Having looked at the photos of the damage to the alloys, I think all 
four alloys show damage that falls outside of what would be considered fair wear and tear. 
The alloys all have scratches that arent insignificant. BMWFS might pay to repair the alloys 
or will likely have suffered a loss in resale value if it chose not to. Taking everything in to 
account I think the £68 charge applied for each alloy is fair and reasonable.  
I think BMWFS has also calculated the excess mileage charge fairly as well. In fact, it looks 
like BMWFS has permitted Mr K 8,980 miles per year whereas the agreement has a limit of 
8,000  meaning Mr K is better off. So, I think BMWFS excess mileage charge for Mr K is 
fair. 
As Ive found that the excess mileage and damage charge have been calculated fairly, I 
think its fair for BMWFS to deduct this amount from Mr Ks refund. By my calculations, the 
voluntary termination shortfall that should be waived after the charges are removed is 
£22,961.07 (£25,370.49 - £2,409.42). Im therefore amending the proposed redress to reflect 
this. 
Im not going to direct BMWFS to reimburse Mr K for hire car costs because Im already 
directing it to refund or waive the payments that were due during the time Mr K had to hire a 
car. The monthly cost for the hire car was less than the monthly payment towards the 
agreement  so Mr K will not be losing out. And, while Mr K has said not being able to use 
the car led to a loss of earnings, Im mindful hes shown us he had another hire car to use. 
And he hasnt provided us with evidence to demonstrate the loss of the car under the 
agreement with BMWFS has led to a financial loss. So, Im not going to direct BMWFS to 
compensate Mr K for his loss of earnings. 
Finally, I turn to the compensation. Im sorry to hear the matter has impacted Mr Ks health. It 
cant have been easy, and I thank him for taking the time to bring the complaint to us. Its not 
a clear-cut case. And I dont think it would be fair to ask BMWFS to pay compensation 
because it reached a different conclusion to mine. But Ive decided the car supplied wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. And when that happens, theres a fault, a breakdown, and repairs 
required theres bound to be a level of inconvenience caused to the consumer. Which is 
what I think has happened here to Mr K. Im inclined to agree that BMWFS should also pay 
Mr K £200, like our investigator recommended.
Mr K accepted the provisional decision. BMWFS provided further submissions. In summary it 
said:
The fact Mr K was able to cover such a significant number of miles proves the 
worthiness of the car. Manufacturers dont guarantee cars for life which is why there 
are warranties. 
A reasonable person would have asked for confirmation the car had full-service 
history. In this case responsibility should fall with Mr K because he sourced the car 
himself, from a friend. 
If the fault was caused by a manufacturing issue the matter would be more 
appropriately resolved by BMWFS paying for the repairs. 
The provisional decision is based on the balance of probabilities and not fact. 
It doesnt object that Mr K shouldnt have to pay for the car when he was unable to 
use it, but it doesnt agree it should have to pay back the deposit. However, as a way to resolve things, BMWFS offered to:
Refund the repair costs with interest. 
Pay £200 compensatoin.
Waive the voluntary termination shortfall.
Mr K didnt accept the offer, so the case has been passed back to me to make a final 
decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered BMWFS response to my provisional decision. 
Ive already set out that BMWFS is the supplier of the goods and is responsible for dealing 
with a complaint about their quality. I havent suggested BMWFS should be responsible for 
problems for life. Ive set out my reasons why, on balance, I dont think the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply  which is what BMWFS is responsible for. 
Ultimately, I dont think the car was sufficiently durable  even taking into account the age 
and mileage covered. 
BMWFS has set out what it thinks Mr K should have done when acquiring the car. But my 
role is to decide if something has gone wrong and whether BMWFS needs to take any action 
as a result of that. And I find I have enough evidence to do so. 
I agree a repair might have been a fair way to resolve things taking into account the 
remedies set out in the CRA. But I also pointed out that things have moved on. BMWFS had 
the opportunity to pay for the repair but didnt choose to do so. Mr K has now voluntarily 
terminated the agreement, so a repair is no longer possible.
Im able to decide a case on what I think is fair and reasonable. Sometimes an ombudsman 
has to decide things on the balance of probabilities. But I should point out I dont think its in 
dispute there was a fault with the car based on the evidence. Mr K broke down and a 
manufacturer franchised dealer set out the nature of the fault. 
Finally, my provisional decision set out why I think Mr Ks deposit should be refunded, so Im 
not going to go over that again here.   
As BMWFS hasnt provided anything materially new for me to consider, I dont see reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.   
Putting things right
To put things right, Im directing BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA 
Financial Services to:
Refund the deposit of £5,000*.
Refund or waive payments required between March 2020 and October 2020*.
Refund the repair costs of £5,929.76*.
Pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience.
Waive the voluntary termination shortfall of £22,961.07.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Ks credit file in relation to the agreement.*BMWFS should pay simple interest at 8% a year, from the dates of each payment until the 
date of settlement.
If BMWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
BMWFS is able to deduct the excess mileage and damage charges totalling £2,409.42 from 
the refund. 
BMWFS must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr K 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services to put things right in the way set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman