DRN-3446610
The complaint
Ms P complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly declined a claim on her 
house insurance for damage caused by an escape of water.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties so Ill only summarise 
them here.
In December 2020 Ms P reported an escape of water from a pipe in her bathroom 
which had caused damage to the bathroom and the kitchen below it.
She tells us she arranged for her plumber to fix the leak.
esure arranged for its surveyor to assess the damage and it declined the claim.
Ms P was unhappy with this and complained to esure.
In its final response esure maintained the declinature of the claim. It said it needed to 
consider the root cause of the damage claimed for. It went on to say the damage had 
occurred as a result of failed grout to the bathroom floor, and the damage to the 
kitchen cupboards and flooring on the ground floor couldnt have been caused by a 
leak to the pipe. It didnt consider an insured event had happened or that the damage 
resulted from an insured peril.
Ms P brought her complaint to this service and, based on the evidence available, our 
investigator felt esure had acted reasonably. 
Ms P remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why.
There is no dispute that the property has suffered water damage, and there is no dispute 
that there was a leak to the pipe leading to the wash hand basin. What is in dispute is 
whether the damage was caused by the leak. So the issue I have to decide is whether esure 
have acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the policy terms and conditions in declining 
the claim.
The policy sets out what is covered and what is not covered in relation to escape of water 
as:
We will pay for loss of or damage to Your Buildings or Contents as a result of water 
escaping from water tanks, pipes, fixed equipment, any domestic appliance or fixed 
heating systems, or as a result of water freezing in water tanks, equipment or pipes. 
What am I not covered for? 
We will not pay for loss or damage: 
 if Your House is Unfurnished or Unoccupied 
 caused by overflowing water from wash basins, sinks, bidets, showers, and baths as a 
result of the taps being left on 
 caused by failure or lack of appropriate sealant and/or grout
  caused by gradual operating cause 
 to the tank, pipe or installation itself if caused by normal wear and tear
  to Your Buildings resulting in Subsidence, Heave or Landslip caused by the escaping 
water
I find it clear that damage attributed to failed grout is excluded under the policy. 
Ive looked at the photographs Ms P and testimony has provided and seen the email from 
her plumber in which he confirms he repaired a leak to an isolation valve and that the boxing 
below the leak was wet. 
Ive then gone on to consider the reports and testimony from esure. The reports indicate little 
sign of any residual damp to the floors below the bathroom and show damage to the 
grouting in the bathroom. The surveyor says there are water stains which appear to have 
occurred at different times and has commented that these stains aren't in the area of the 
wash hand basin.  He feels the damage to the property is not consistent with an escape of 
water from the pipe to the wash hand basin. He adds there was no evidence of any water 
damage to the ground floor flooring and the delamination of the kitchen cupboard doors is 
not consistent with the leak. And the stains to the kitchen ceiling were only consistent with 
failed grout from the bathroom above.
Ms P says the property had dried out by the time the inspection took place. However, Im 
satisfied that had there been sufficient water to cause the damage claimed for there 
wouldve been more residual dampness. And I note the surveyors comments that the ground 
floor was bone dry. Ms P feels the damage to the grouting only occurred as a consequence 
of the leak to the pipe, and I note her plumber does say the wood under the bathroom tiles 
had started to blow. But the pictures Ive seen dont show any blowing.
On balance, Im more persuaded by the surveyors professional opinion that none of the 
damage claimed for is consistent with the escape of water from the pipes to the wash hand 
basin. And the damage was more likely caused by water ingress through the failed grouting, 
perhaps over a period of time. 
Therefore, in the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied esure acted reasonably in 
declining the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons above Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman