DRN-2454340
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about the service provided under his central heating and plumbing
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in November 2020, part of which is copied 
below: 
Mr D has held a policy with British Gas since 2010. The policy cover includes an annual
service of the boiler.
In January 2019, Mr D contacted British Gas, as he had not been receiving reminders about
his annual service and had not have one done since 2013.
British Gas said the boiler had been serviced in August 2018 when one of its engineers had
attended to repair a leak in the boiler. Mr D says the engineer did not look at any radiators
and or other pipework and did not carry out that service as alleged. He asked for a refund of
the service charge for the policy year 2018/2019.
In addition, Mr D is unhappy that the engineer said the hole in the pipe had been caused by
a high water pressure problem in his village. The engineer had recommended that Mr D buy
a pressure reducing valve for £238. Mr D says he has never been recommended this
product before, or told he lives in a high water pressure area. Mr D also says he mentioned
to the engineer he was having trouble with the on/off controls on his boiler and he was told
this would be sorted if he chose to install the pressure reducing valve.
Mr D therefore says British Gas should pay for the valve, if it is needed to resolve a problem
with the boiler controls. He also wants confirmation that British Gas will not refuse to attend
in the future.
British Gas didnt respond to most of Mr Ds complaint but said it had sent several annual
service reminders by post to Mr Ds address over recent years. British Gas says an annual
service was carried out in 2018 and said the engineer had taken readings which would be
done during a service.
British Gas also said the engineer remembered Mr D's job and said he recommended the
pressure reducing valve to reduce the water pressure based on his local knowledge of the
area. British Gas also said that there have been six call outs since February 2010, which
could be attributed to domestic hot water leaks caused by excessive water pressure. British
Gas says that it has advised Mr D of a necessary change/upgrade to his system (i.e. the
pressure reducing valve) and so if he doesnt have this fitted, it will not go out again for the
same fault.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She was satisfied that British Gas had sent
reminders about the annual service to Mr D, as it had provided copies of letters and
postcards sent to his address from 2015. However, she concluded it was unlikely the
engineer had completed the annual service in August 2018, as he didnt apparently check
any other parts of the heating system and the checklist left with Mr D that day doesnt state
that an annual service of the boiler was carried out. She therefore recommended the British
Gas refund £65 for the annual service not carried out in 2018 and pay £35 compensation.
The investigator did not consider it fair to ask British Gas to pay for the pressure reducing
valve, as the policy only covers boiler/central heating breakdowns and not improvements or
upgrades to the system. And she was satisfied it was reasonable for British Gas to
recommend the valve, given the call outs relating to high pressure. Finally, the investigator
asked British Gas to go back to look at the controls when it is able to.
Mr D does not accept the investigators assessment. He has made a number of
submissions, which Ive summarised below:
There were not six occasions since February 2010, which could be attributed to
domestic hot water leaks caused by excessive water pressure, as stated by British
Gas and the investigator.
There were three call outs, with duplicate entries which have been identified as
separate occasions according to British Gas. It has attended three times over an 8.5
year period, to effect repairs which British Gas have concluded could be attributed to
domestic hot water leaks potentially caused by excessive water pressure
British Gass report doesnt record the purpose of each visit or what if any, repairs
were carried out and it has said it doesnt have copies of the original engineers
reports. So it has not been able to provide any evidence in support of its claim that
the area in which he lives is an area of high water pressure.
He was never advised of any water pressure issues at any of the attendances. But
even if they were, this would mean British Gas has decided that more than two
related faults within an 8.5 year period are deemed excessive. Is this fair and
reasonable when you consider that British Gas only guarantee their engineers '
work and corresponding parts for 12 months?
The compensation of just £35 for inconvenience caused is unnecessarily harsh and
is a disincentive for pursuing an issue.
The work record provided by British Gas was not complete and so I asked the investigator to
go back for a full copy, showing the reasons for each call out and work done. A copy of this
has been provided to Mr D along with this decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
annual services
The policy documents issued in June 2018 say:
When your annual service is due well send you or your authorised contact an email, letter,
text message or call you to arrange it. Well try to get hold of you up to three times. If we
dont hear back from you after the third time, we wont try again and wont refund the cost of
the missed annual service. But you can still contact us at any time to book it.
British Gas therefore says it is not its fault that annual services have been missed and the
contract provides that here will be no refund.However, British Gas has not demonstrated that this same policy wording was in every
policy from 2010 onwards. It is my understanding that it was not in some of the earlier
policies.
There was an initial service in February 2010 when Mr D first took out the policy. British
Gass records show there was also one carried out in 2011, 2012, 2013 (at the same time as
a repair) and 2018 (again at the same time as the repair). So there was no service for five
years and possibly not a proper service in 2018 either.
Even if the policy wording set out above, was in place from 2010 (which I do not think it
was), it seems to me that British Gas was aware the boiler had not been serviced for around
five years and so should have made other attempts to contact Mr D about this. I dont
consider it enough to have sent the same reminders in the same way year after year. This
meant not only that Mr D was not getting the full cover he was paying for but also that the
integrity of the boiler might have been affected. So, while I have no particular reason to
doubt the reminders were sent, it seems fair and reasonable to me that at least after a
couple of years, British Gas should have tried to contact Mr D by other means to see why he
was not booking the service visits. A phone call would probably have sufficed. The cost of
the annual service is apparently £65. Overall it seems to me that a refund of three years
annual service fee would be fair and reasonable, which would equate to £195.
August 2018 repair and future cover
Since Mr D took out the policy in 2010, he has apparently had four repairs carried out.
In February 2010 the initial service visit (during which British Gas would inspect the boiler
and ensure it is prepared to provide cover) it identified that the seals on the secondary heat
exchanger and pressure relief valve needed replacing, which it apparently did. It attended on
1 and 2 February 2010 to resolve this. British Gas has counted this as being two out of the
six breakdowns it has attended for possible water pressure issues. Even if it were related to
high pressure, it would only reasonably be counted as one occasion.
In December 2013 there was an attendance in relation to a pinhole leak in the water system,
which British Gas says could also have been related to high water pressure.
There are then the attendances in August 2018 which relates to the claim which is the 
subject of this complaint. British Gas has counted this as three breakdowns. Again, I cant 
see how this can be treated as more than one breakdown.
So the evidence is that there have been four boiler faults dealt with under the policy, over a
period of 8/9 years, and three of these British Gas says could be related to high water
pressure.
However, I have seen no independent evidence of any localised pressure problem where  
Mr D lives. Indeed, British Gas has confirmed that its engineers would not have any 
equipment to test the actual mains pressure. In addition, it has only said that these 
attendance could be related to high mains pressure. Again there is no convincing evidence 
to support this. And I note that in its email of March 2020 to us, British Gas said that Mr Ds 
complaint was the first indication it had had that there was a high pressure problem at the 
property.
British Gas says it would not go out to Mr Ds property again for the same fault to his boiler,
as it has advised an improvement to the system which would resolve the cause of these
faults. It says this means that unless he pays for the pressure reducing valve to be fitted, it
might not cover any future claims relating to high pressure. As I am not persuaded thatBritish Gas has established there is a high water pressure issue, which has caused any
claims under the policy, I see no reason why Mr D should have to pay to have the valve
fitted; and I am not satisfied that British Gas would be entitled to refuse any claim on this
basis. There is nothing in the policy, and it is not fair or reasonable, to significantly reduce
the cover provided under the policy paid for by Mr D for something that may be a result of
high pressure but which has not been established. I do not therefore consider it can
reasonably refuse any future claim for this reason.
Mr D had also apparently told the engineer that attended in August 2018, that he was also
having trouble with the boiler controls and the engineer told him the pressure reducing valve
would resolve this. British Gas agreed to go out to look at the controls again and it should do
so at Mr Ds earliest convenience, with current restrictions allowing. If that is the way to
resolve the issue, then it should be covered under the policy.
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require it to do
the following:
refund annual service costs £195 (this includes the £65 already offered in respect of
this); and
pay £250 compensation for the handling of this matter.
I also do not consider it reasonable for it to refuse any future claims on the basis that the
pressure reducing valve has not been fitted.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr D has confirmed he has received my provisional decision. He had confirmed previously 
his record of the annual services carried out on his boiler and wanted to ensure I had that 
information. He said that the only full service was carried out when he first took the policy 
with British Gas in February 2010. This was the only time that British Gas checked and bled 
all the radiators, checked the radiator valves and all associated pipework for corrosion / 
leaks. More basic services of the boiler were carried out in 2012 and 2013, with no 
inspection of the radiators. He doesnt say that he has a record of one being carried out in 
2011, and the one in 2018 is also disputed. 
British Gas has also responded to my provisional decision. It has confirmed it accepts my 
findings regarding the £250 compensation and agrees to continue to honour the cover 
without having the pressure reducing valve fitted.
However, British Gas does not accept that it is fair to require it to refund three years worth of 
annual service visits. It says it sends policy documents every year, which makes clear that 
the cover includes an annual service. And, it has fulfilled its terms and conditions by sending 
reminders each year to book this. It does not have a duty to move outside of these terms 
and conditions. British Gas says the onus should be on the customer to ensure the service is 
complete and it can only be expected to remind them to book the visit. It does not agree that 
it can be expected to call someone, if they fail to respond to its letters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence again, including the points made by British Gas in 
response to my provisional decision, I am not persuaded to change my provisional findings. 
British Gass records show a service was carried out in 2011. However, both parties agree 
that no service was carried out in 2014, 2015, 2016 or 2017. Mr D suggests that the services 
carried out in 2012 and 2013 were not complete services either but I do not think it needs to 
check all the radiators on each visit, unless there is something to suggest there is a problem 
with them. It is only required to check the boiler itself during an annual service. 
British Gas says it was Mr Ds responsibility to ensure the boiler services were arranged and 
carried out and it cannot be expected to call a policyholder to do so. While British Gas might 
have met the strict terms of the policy, I do not agree that this fulfils its obligations to 
generally treat customers fairly. 
British Gas would have been aware that a service provided and paid for under the policy had 
not been carried out for several years and I remain of the opinion that it would have been 
reasonable for it to have tried an alternative means of contacting Mr D to find out why he had 
not made these appointments.  British Gas says it cannot be expected to phone a customer 
to do this but the policy does state: When your annual service is due well send you or your 
authorised contact an email, letter, text message or call you to arrange it.  I am not 
persuaded a phone call would be expecting too much after four years of no service visit. 
Overall therefore, I see no reason to change my provisional finding that British Gas should  
refund three years annual service fees, which would equate to £195.
British Gas has confirmed it accepts my findings about the August 2018 repair and future 
cover and Mr D has not provided any further comments about this, so I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings about this.   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require it to do the 
following:
refund annual service costs £195 (this includes the £65 already offered in respect of
this); and
pay £250 compensation for the handling of this matter.
I also do not consider it reasonable for it to refuse any future claims on the basis that the
pressure reducing valve has not been fitted. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman