DRN-2863247
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat didnt carry out proper 
affordability checks.
 
What happened
Mr B took one payday loan from Cashfloat in September 2019. A summary of his borrowing, 
based on the information provided to us from Cashfloat can be found below:
loan 
numberloan amount approved date repayment date
1 £300.00 01/09/2019 outstanding
Cashfloat told us that an outstanding balance remained, but Mr B was making repayments 
through a repayment plan. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint. She didnt uphold the complaint. She 
said, Cashfloat had carried out proportionate checks and these checks showed that Mr B 
would likely to be able to afford his loan. 
Cashfloat agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Mr B disagreed and in summary said he had a gambling problem and his credit file wouldve 
shown Cashfloat that he had a history of taking out payday loans. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
When this loan was approved, Cashfloat asked Mr B about his income and he declared he 
had an income of £2,350 per month. Cashfloat also made some enquires with Mr B about 
his living costs. He declared these to be £1,048 per month. This left Mr B with £1,302 
disposable income to afford the total due for this loan - £372. 
A credit check was also carried out by Cashfloat before it approved the loan and it has 
provided this service with the results. Looking at these results, there is some less than 
perfect information, for example Cashfloat was aware that one account had defaulted within 
the year before the loan was granted. But looking at the results in the round, I dont think 
there is enough information contained within it that wouldve prompted Cashfloat to either 
decline the application or to have prompted it to carry out further checks.  
I appreciate Mr B says he had a history of taking similar expensive credit, but this 
information wasnt reflected in the information he provided. And I dont yet think it had 
reached the point where Cashfloat needed to verify the information he was providing, for 
instance, by looking at his bank statements. 
A bank statement review may have revealed to Cashfloat the gambling that Mr B has told us 
about. But, in my view, it wouldve been disproportionate to have asked to see bank 
statements when the information Mr B provided, and the credit check results indicated to 
Cashfloat that Mr B was likely to be able to afford the loan. 
Overall, I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Cashfloat was made 
aware of any financial problems Mr B mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve 
prompted it to investigate his circumstances further such as signs of gambling. So, I think it 
was reasonable for Cashfloat to rely on the information it obtained and approve this loan. So, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint about his loan. I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed 
by the outcome of this complaint, but I hope my explanation has been useful in explaining 
why Ive reached the outcome that I have.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman