DRN-2722967
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Wesleyan Assurance Society hasnt located a policy that she had 
which was taken out in 1927.
What happened
Mrs Ds parents took out a penny policy with Wesleyan for her when she was born in 1927. 
When she became an adult, she took over paying into the policy. The policy would run until 
she turned 60, in 1987.
Mrs D remembers being told by Wesleyan that her policy was paid up in 1987. She also 
recalls being sold a new policy in 1987. Recently, Mrs D has discovered shes lost her 
passbook which shows her original policy details. However, shes sure she has not received 
the funds from the 1927 policy. She asked Wesleyan to trace the policy for her.
Wesleyan attempted to trace Mrs Ds original policy but said it couldnt find any records of it. 
It explained that the policy would be in its database had it still held a value, so its likely it 
was paid out at the time. Wesleyan said it had searched using all the information Mrs D had 
provided, but without any policy number it couldnt look any further.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He explained that it was so long ago that it 
wasnt surprising that Wesleyan wasnt able to trace the policy. But he explained it was likely 
the policy didnt have a current value because if it had, it was likely to show on Wesleyans 
database. The investigator concluded it was too difficult to determine whether Mrs D was 
owed anything under the policy with the evidence provided.
Mrs D disagreed. She explained she was very meticulous with records and knows that she 
didnt received the surrender value for this policy. She doesnt feel its fair for Wesleyan to 
need a policy number, and she feels it hasnt searched its archives for the policy. Mrs D also 
said she feels Wesleyan shouldve written to her in 1987 when the policy became paid up 
but theres no record that it did. She asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs D feels very strongly about this complaint, and Im sorry that shes not 
been able to find her passbook. However, based on the evidence I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ds policy matured in 1987  some 34 years ago. Its very common for businesses to not 
hold on to information for this length of time. So, Im not surprised Wesleyan doesnt have 
much information. Its also not surprising that Mrs Ds own documents have gone missing 
over this time period. My role here is to look at what we do have and determine whether 
Wesleyan has done something wrong. But I dont think it has.
Mrs D provided Wesleyan with everything she has. And Ive seen evidence that Wesleyan 
has searched its systems using all the information Mrs D provided. The only result that came 
up was for the policy Mrs D took out in 1987, but not for any policy that was made paid up. 
Im satisfied, from the evidence Ive seen, that Wesleyan has carried out reasonable 
searches to locate this policy.
I understand Mrs D would like Wesleyan to search its archives which may not have any 
electronic entries. I can see why Mrs D would like this but Wesleyan has said its unable to 
do any further searches without a policy number. I think this is reasonable. The reason I say 
this is that Wesleyan has confirmed that if there was money outstanding to pay out for any 
policy it would have a record on its electronic systems. This leads me to conclude that its 
most likely, on the balance of probabilities, that Mrs Ds earlier policy actually paid out. I cant 
know what happened when the policy did pay out, and its been suggested that it was the 
funds from this policy that set up the new policy in 1987. Whilst I cant confirm whether this 
was the case, I do think its likely that had the policy still had a balance to pay to Mrs D, 
Wesleyan wouldve found it during its searches. But I can see that it didnt find the policy.
I understand Mrs D has since said Wesleyan shouldve written to her in 1987. Its too long 
ago to know whether this happened or not, but we do know that Mrs D was aware her policy 
had come to an end at this point, so I think its likely there was some communication at the 
time about the policy coming to an end.
I know Mrs D will be disappointed with this decision, having paid into a policy for so many 
years. But when we have complaints that have very little documentary evidence we need to 
reach a decision based on the balance of probabilities. In this case, I think its more likely 
that the policy would be visible on Wesleyans systems if there was money owed to Mrs D. 
As it cannot be traced, I think its likely this policy already paid out. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman