DRN-4215240
The complaint
Mr J has complained about the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited have handled
his claim under his car insurance policy.
I appreciate Mr J dealt with an insurance broker representing Advantage on his claim, but,
for the sake of ease, Ive referred to Advantage throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr Js car was damaged in an accident. He made a claim under his policy. Advantage
decided it wasnt economic to repair it and declared it a total loss. Mr J discussed this with
Advantage and told them hed like to retain the car. Advantage placed a market value on the
car of £2,322 and eventually offered this, less the policy excess, in settlement of Mr Js
claim. Unfortunately, Advantages salvage dealer sold the damaged car, so Mr J wasnt able
to retain it.
Mr J complained to Advantage about the amount theyd offered in settlement of his claim
and the fact their salvage dealer had sold his car. Advantage apologised for the fact Mr Js
car had been sold and offered him £75 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience
this had caused him. They then increased their offer to £250. They maintained their
settlement offer for Mr Js car was correct and wouldnt increase this.
Mr J asked us to consider his complaint. When he did so originally he said hed not been
paid the compensation Advantage had offered or the settlement amount hed been offered
for his car. When submitting their file on the complaint to us Advantage told us theyd like to
increase their offer of compensation for disposing of Mr Js car against his wishes to £500 in
total, ie they offered to pay him a further £250.
One of our investigators considered Mr Js complaint. She felt the amount Advantage had
offered in settlement of Mr Js claim for his car was fair, based on her research on the likely
cost to Mr J of replacing his car. She also thought the £500 Advantage had offered in total as
compensation for disposing of Mr Js car was fair.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view, so his complaint was referred to me for
a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 June 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js policy with Advantage required Advantage to pay him the market value of his car at
the time it was damaged, less the policy excess. The market value is defined as the cost to
Mr J of replacing his car with one of a similar make, model, mileage and age.
Mr J has said his car was a very nice and quite rare example and that it will cost him a lot
more than £2,322 to replace it. Hes provided some adverts for what hes suggested are
similar cars for sale, along with invoices showing hed spent a considerable amount both
maintaining and improving his car. Advantage have also provided some adverts.
Only one of the adverts provided by Mr J is for a car of the same make, model and age as
his car. And this has a much lower mileage than Mr Js car had. This car was advertised for
sale at £6,975. I think both the adverts provided by Advantage are relevant, as they are both
for cars of the same make, model and age. One is for a similar car with a much lower
mileage, which was advertised for sale at £3,000. The other is a for a similar car, but it has
a slightly higher mileage. This was advertised for sale at £1,495. Because Mr Js vehicle was
so old, only one of the trade guides we use to check the likely selling cost of cars returned a
valuation. This was £1,583.
I dont doubt Mr J saw his car as a lovely example and that hed spent a considerable
amount of money maintaining it, even having a new soft top fitted. But the evidence I have to
consider does not suggest it would have cost any more than what Advantage have
suggested to replace it. In fact, the evidence Ive seen actually suggests it probably would
have cost less than this. I do of course appreciate what it costs to buy this type of car can
vary a lot and sometimes people are willing to pay more to get a particular car. But, based
on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the amount Advantage paid in settlement of Mr
Js claim was in line with the terms of his policy and was fair.
Advantage should not have allowed their salvage dealer to dispose of Mr Js car, as theyd
agreed in principle he could retain it. And this is what Id have expected them to do if he 
wished to do so. So, its clear that Advantages error in this regard has caused Mr J a great 
deal of distress and inconvenience. But I dont believe it has caused him a financial loss. I 
say this because, I consider what Advantage have paid Mr J for his car should be enough for 
him to buy a suitable replacement. However, the significant level of distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced warrants a compensation payment. And the amount 
Advantage offered him originally wasnt enough. But Im satisfied their increased offer of 
£500 is enough based on our usual approach to awards for distress and inconvenience. Its 
not clear whether Advantage have actually paid Mr J the £250 they offered him in 
compensation originally, but I am assuming they have. So this means they will need to pay 
him a further £250.
Mr J also complained about the length of time Advantage took to deal with his claim and they
have not addressed this issue. Mr J originally made his claim in November 2022 and it took
Advantage until late January 2023 for them to make an offer to Mr J in settlement. And it
wasnt until 22 February that Advantage actually sent a cheque for the amount theyd
offered. This means Mr J was without the funds to replace his car for much longer than
should have been the case. I say this because I think it should only have taken Advantage a
month or so to assess his car, offer settlement and pay what it had offered. This delay would
have been frustrating for Mr J in itself and made it difficult for him to decide what to do about
replacing his car. It also meant he didnt have a car and he has said he had to use public
transport in this period instead. And I think this warrants a further payment in compensation
for distress and inconvenience, including loss of use of £300.
I gave both parties until 27 June 2023 to provide further comments and evidence in 
response to my provisional decision. 
Advantage havent provided any further comments or evidence. 
Mr J has responded to say he is disappointed with my provisional decision, considering how 
much he has been impacted by Advantages error. He still believes the value of his car was 
much higher than Advantage and I have suggested. He has pointed out it was a rare car and it is hard to find an exact match to get a true valuation. He doesnt think the compensation 
Ive suggested is reasonable for distress inconvenience award fairly reflects what hes gone 
through. This is because he had to purchase another car without knowing its true history 
and he wouldnt have had this dilemma if he had kept his own car. 
Mr J has also let us know that he has received any compensation from Advantage other than 
what it offered for his car as yet.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do of course appreciate Mr Js view on the market value of his car. However, I have to base 
my decision on whether Advantage paid enough for it on the evidence available. And while 
the car may have felt like a very rare and nice example to Mr J, which is understandable, 
theres nothing Ive seen which persuades me it wouldnt have been possible for him to 
replace it with a similar car for the market value placed on it by Advantage. 
I also appreciate the additional distress and inconvenience he experienced because 
Advantage allowed his car to be sold by their salvage dealer. But my compensation award 
for this is in line with the awards for distress and inconvenience we usually make in this sort 
of situation. And I am satisfied it is appropriate to compensate Mr J.   
As neither Advantage nor Mr J have commented on my suggested additional amount of 
£300 for loss of use, I see no reason to alter my view that Advantage should also pay this. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Js 
complaint and make Advantage pay him a total of £800 in compensation for distress and 
inconvenience and loss of use. This is on the basis that all Advantage have paid Mr J so far 
is what they offered for his car. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint and order Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay him £800 
in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman