DRN-4398800
The complaint
Mr B, Mr V and Ms C as trustees of the J V Discretionary Will Trust, represented by Mr B are 
complaining that Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited wouldnt provide them with information 
about the value of an investment bond. 
What happened
In early 2022, the trust held two investment bonds  one with Aviva, and one with a third 
party. The trustees decided to assign the bonds to two of the beneficiaries. They completed 
a Deed of Assignment in May 2022 and Aviva confirmed the assignment of their bond at the 
beginning of June. 
At the end of July, Mr B asked Aviva for the valuation of the bond on the date of assignment 
saying it was needed for inheritance tax purposes. He asked again in August but had no 
response. Mr B wrote to Aviva again in October and this time it replied, telling Mr B he didnt 
have the authority to receive the information hed asked for  and saying it had provided the 
information to the policy holder to pass on at their discretion. 
Mr B complained about this to Aviva. It apologised to Mr B that it had taken them so long to 
reply. But it didnt uphold his complaint, reiterating that he didnt have the authority to receive 
the information.  
It said the two letters from Mr B sent July and August 2022, were on Mr Bs IFA headed note 
paper. It said he did not make any reference to being an ex-trustee or the reason the 
valuation was requested. It said its staff followed its procedures and did not provide 
information to what it saw was an unregulated IFA requesting it. It said once Mr B explained 
why he wanted the valuation, it sent the information to the new trustees, as Mr B was no 
longer authorised to receive it. It added that Mr B would have known who the new trustees 
were, and it has asked why Mr B didnt contact them. It said it has done nothing wrong and 
was following its security and safeguarding procedures to protect its clients accounts.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 10 October 2023. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
I am currently upholding the trustees complaint. I will explain why:
Mr B in his capacity as trustee, arranged for Aviva to have a deed of assignment, so 
that an investment bond could be assigned. Mr B did this on 18 May 2022. Aviva 
wrote to Mr B on 1st June 2022 to confirm the bond had been fully assigned to the 
beneficiaries. 
Mr B sent letters in July, August and then October 2022, asking for a valuation of the 
bond that had been assigned on 18 May 2022. He needed a valuation for that date, 
for inheritance tax purposes. This is so as a trustee, he could file a tax return.
Aviva did not respond to his requests in July and August 2022. It said, from its 
records it could see that staff thought Mr B was an unregulated IFA and wasnt 
entitled to this information. It said Mr B did not explain what he wanted the 
information for and why he had asked for it. It said when Mr B requested the 
information again in October 2022, he had explained why he needed the 
information, so as part of its procedures it sent the valuation to the new 
policyholders.
I can see Mr B as a trustee, was a customer of Avivas on 18 May 2022. This was 
the day he arranged for the investment bond to be assigned. Mr Bs request for 
information: a valuation of a bond, was on a date when Mr B was a customer of 
Aviva. 
Mr B has explained to our service that he needed a valuation of the bond, so that he 
could, on behalf of the trust, complete a tax return. So, I can see that Mr B was 
requesting information from when he was a customer of Aviva and I think had good 
reason to ask for it. 
Aviva said that it was right to not provide the information to Mr B when he requested 
it and that its staff followed the right procedures. It said his details had been 
removed from its system and that its staff would have seen that he was an IFA and 
not an ex-trustee of the investment bond in question. But I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Mr B to ask for a valuation of a bond on a date where he was the 
trustee of that investment and a customer of Aviva. And as I have already concluded 
he had a clear need for that information.
Aviva removed Mr Bs details from its system and so it was then unaware of his role 
as trustee. Ultimately, this is something that Aviva is responsible for doing, and I 
think, on balance, caused its staff to not understand under what capacity Mr B was 
asking the information for. I think this is a failing on Avivas behalf and not something 
Mr B would have been aware of when he made contact to obtain the valuation.
Aviva has suggested Mr B could have done several things himself such as contact 
the new policyholders or make a more detailed request when he contact it. But I am 
looking at whether Aviva acted fairly when it received Mr Bs requests for a 
valuation. Looking at things overall, I dont think it did. So, I am currently minded to 
uphold the trustees complaint. Aviva needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. 
Aviva responded on 10 October 2023. It made the following points:
Mr B never stated who he was, in what capacity he was requesting the 
information or for what reason. As far as Aviva were concerned, he was making 
an unsolicited request for information.
Mr B was informed who Aviva had sent the information to, the new trustees and 
policy holders. Aviva has asked our service what reasons Mr B gave for not 
asking them for this information. 
Mr B could have obtained the information from the new policy holders in October 
2022 and avoided any fees being charged.When Mr B obtained the information from the third party for the return, was this in 
October or after December and as such should the third party not be liable for 
the entire amount of interest.
Mr B, on behalf of the trustees, responded on 11 October 2023 and made some 
additional points. He said:
He never acted in a capacity as an IFA for the policy. He said his role was and 
always had been that of trustee. 
There was an IFA firm in place however Aviva were informed in writing by the trustees that it 
had resigned and that there would be no new IFA. Mr B also provided two letters that 
confirmed what he had said in this regard: one from him and a response by Aviva.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the latest submissions from Aviva and Mr B carefully. 
Aviva has stated again that although it agrees with most of my findings, the important issue 
here is that Mr B didnt say who he was or in what capacity he was requesting the 
information. I have again looked at this and acknowledge what Aviva are saying. 
Mr B has provided more information regarding this and attached two letters with his 
response to my provisional decision. The first is dated 14/04/2021 from the trustees to 
Aviva. The trustees within the letter notified Aviva that the IFA has removed themselves 
from its position within the trust, and that Aviva should communicate with them directly. 
They then give Mr Bs name and his address as the point of contact. 
The second letter provided by Mr B is from Aviva dated 22 April 2021, thanking him for the 
request to remove the financial adviser. It confirms the adviser has been removed from the 
plan. Aviva also said within the records that the plan records had been amended to show 
there was no adviser applicable. 
I think, after reading these two letters and reviewing the documentation provided by both 
parties overall again, that Aviva should have understood under what capacity Mr B was 
writing to them in. Mr B had not acted in any capacity as an IFA for the trust and had only 
been a trustee. Whats more, Aviva had only recently amended its records to show Mr B as 
trustee and point of contact for the trust. So, I think it should have been apparent to Aviva 
that Mr B was previously a trustee for the bond and was trustee on the date that he was 
asking for the valuation. I dont think it was reasonable for Aviva to consider Mr Bs request 
as an unsolicited request for information, considering he was a trustee and point of contact 
for them, up until recently. 
Moving on, Aviva also asked why Mr B did not go and obtain the information from the new 
trustees, after it told him it had sent the information on to them. I asked Mr B this question.
Mr B said that Aviva said in its letter 18/10/2022 that it had sent the information to the 
policyholder. Mr B checked with his other trustee Mr V and established that the information 
was not sent to him. He said the information requested was about a valuation at the time 
he and Mr V were trustees. He couldnt see why Aviva would send the information to the 
new trustees as it wasnt relevant to them. I find Mr Bs reasons as to why he didnt contact 
the new trustees, persuasive. However, based on what I have already found, I dont think any of this makes a difference as to the outcome of this complaint. This is because I have 
concluded Aviva should have provided the information to Mr B when he requested it. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I am looking at whether Aviva has acted fairly here or 
not. When I consider what I have just concluded and my findings within the provisional 
decision, I dont think it has. I think it ought to have been aware of who Mr B was when he 
contacted it, asking for a valuation. 
I do think Aviva should have provided the trustees with the valuation when it was asked to 
do so. So, I uphold the trustees complaint and Aviva need to now put things right. 
Putting things right
Mr B has said that the trustees were unable to file their tax return on time due to not being 
able to obtain a valuation from Aviva. When I consider what I have concluded above, I am 
satisfied, but for Avivas failing in this complaint, the trustees would have filed their tax 
return in time.
Mr B has provided evidence of a letter from HMRC in May 2023 showing that the trust has 
been fined for not filing its return in time. It also shows on this correspondence the amount 
of interest HMRC have added for the return being late. I have looked into this and can see 
that the trustees have accrued a fine of £100 and interest added from December 2022 to 
May 2023 of £143.43.
The investigator explained that the trustees had made another complaint about a third party 
and that it was jointly liable for the delay. The third party has accepted that it will pay half of 
the penalty and interest accrued. Aviva has asked in its recent submission about when the 
third party provided information to Mr B. I have concluded that Aviva is responsible for not 
providing information to the trustees, and but for this failing, they would have submitted their 
tax return on time. So, because of this I think Aviva are jointly liable for the delay with the 
third party who have already accepted this.
I agree that Aviva should pay for half of this amount for the reasons I have already 
mentioned in my findings. 
To put things right Aviva, need to:
Pay Mr B, Mr V and Ms C as trustees of the JV Discretionary Will Trust half the fine 
they had to pay to HMRC along with half the interest that they have accrued. This 
would total £121.71. In addition, Aviva should pay 8% simple per year to this value 
from the date the trustees paid the charge up to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr B, Mr V and Ms C as trustees of the JV Discretionary Will Trust a £150 
payment for distress and inconvenience. Aviva did not reply to Mr B in his capacity 
as trustee when he wrote to it on two occasions and then did not resolve his 
complaint over several months, causing what would be an amount of stress for the 
trustees.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr B, Mr V and Ms C as trustees of the JV Discretionary 
Will Trusts complaint about Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited and it now needs to put 
things right as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, Mr V and Ms C as trustees of the J V Discretionary Will Trust to accept or reject my decision before 27 
November 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman