DRN-2324237
Complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Background
Mr B took the PPI policy out alongside a credit card in April 1999.
The policy cost 77p per £100 of Mr Bs outstanding monthly statement balance. And if he 
was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 10% of that 
balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr B that the policy was optional, and it had to get his consent 
before applying PPI to his account. Mr B says there was no mention of PPI and he would not 
have asked for it. Lloyds says Mr B completed an application form and chose to take it  its 
provided a copy of Mr Bs application form for me to consider. 
Looking at the application form, there is a section about OPTIONAL FEATURES and under 
this there is a section about PPI with two separate boxes to tick either yes or no for the 
policy. The yes box has been ticked and the no box has been left blank. And other optional 
products such as card protection have not been selected. Mr B has signed the application 
form, confirming that he agrees with the selections on it.
In addition to this, I can see the PPI appeared on Mr Bs credit card statements as 
CARDHOLDER PROTECTION PLAN and I think this is quite prominent. So, I think its 
likely Mr B would have seen this and if he wasnt sure what it was for, I would have expected 
him to query the transactions with Lloyds much sooner. So, considering the application form 
and statements, I think Mr B was aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it at the time.
Mr B says he didnt receive any advice. But Lloyds doesnt know, so its reviewed the sale as 
though it did give him advice. I think this is fair as it puts more responsibility on Lloyds to 
check the policy was suitable for Mr B, in addition to giving him enough information about the 
policy so he could decide whether to take it or not. 
Based on what Mr Bs told us about his circumstances at the time, I think the policy was 
suitable for him and I dont think better information would have changed his decision to take 
the policy.
Mr B was eligible for the policy and he doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
things that might have made it harder for him to claim on the policy, such as having a pre-
existing medical condition, or unusual employment circumstances.
Mr B says he would have received six months full pay, followed by six months half pay if he 
was off sick from work. He also says his family could have helped him if necessary. 
The policy would have paid out on top of anything Mr B received from his employer and he 
could have claimed again subject to a requalification period. While his family may have 
wanted to help, their circumstances could change which means their help could not always 
be relied on. So, I think Mr B could have found the cover useful if he fell on hard times, 
particularly if he was still off work when his sick pay entitlement reduced by half.
I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr B at the time.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the terms and cost of the policy wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But for the same reasons as I think the policy was suitable 
for Mr B, I think its unlikely he would have made a different decision if better information had 
been given to him. And Mr B could have cancelled the policy at any time without further cost 
if his circumstances changed.
So, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold, which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman