DRN-4052742
The complaint
Ms M complains that Sterling ISA Managers Limited trading as Advance by Embark 
(Sterling) failed to complete the transfer of her self-invested pension plan (SIPP) to 
another provider in a timely manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023. In that decision 
I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Sterling needed to do in 
order to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, 
for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts 
from it below. In my decision I said;
Ms M held pension savings in a SIPP that was administered by Sterling. In 
October 2021 she decided to transfer her pension savings to a new provider. The 
new provider sent the transfer instruction to Sterling in November 2021. Ms M 
requested that the transfer be made in-specie. That meant that her pension 
investments wouldnt be sold, but would be re-registered to the new provider. Ms M 
also asked that some ISA holdings were transferred to the new provider. But, in this 
decision, I am only considering what happened in relation to her SIPP investments.
The information that Sterling has sent us about this complaint has been very limited. 
Despite a number of requests from our investigator, and her issuing her assessment, 
Sterling has failed to show any evidence of the steps it took to progress Ms Ms 
request in a timely manner. So in deciding this complaint, like our investigator, I am 
largely limited to basing my findings on the time the transfer took. If, in response to 
this provisional decision, Sterling chooses to provide further details of its actions I will 
of course consider what has been said, and might need to alter my findings.
The new provider regularly chased Sterling for updates on the progress of the 
transfer but appears to have received little in response. For example, on 
10 February 2022, the new provider told Sterling that it was still awaiting receipt of 
eleven separate investments. It doesnt appear to have received a reply to that email 
request, despite two further emails, until 22 March. And that reply was simply to say 
that the request for information had been passed to the claims and complaints teams.
Following Ms Ms complaint, Sterling told Ms M in May 2022 that it continued to 
pursue the completion of her transfer, and one fund remained outstanding. But 
I understand that the final cash balance to complete the transfer wasnt received by 
the new provider until July 2022.
When Sterling looked at Ms Ms complaint it told her that it was upholding the 
complaint (although it didnt explain for what reason). It paid Ms M £100 for the 
trouble and upset shed been caused.
As Ive said earlier, it is very disappointing that Sterling has not responded to the 
requests from our investigator to provide further details on how it managed Ms Ms 
transfer. But, given the informal nature of this Service, I dont think it unreasonable to 
proceed on the basis of the information I currently hold. I havent seen anything that 
makes me think Ms Ms pension investments were particularly unusual or complex. 
And so I think it is reasonable to conclude that the transfer of those investments 
should have proceeded smoothly and in line with timescales that are generally 
accepted within the industry.
Ms M had asked for her transfer to be completed in-specie. That means that her 
pension savings remained invested at all times. So, any delays in the transfer, were 
unlikely to have seen her be exposed to market risks as would be the case if a 
transfer were made in cash. But that doesnt mean that Ms M was entirely isolated 
from the impacts of any delays. She has told us that the delay meant she was unable 
to take some income from her pension savings, and that she needed to pay two sets 
of SIPP fees  one to each provider. And it is possible that some of Ms Ms pension 
savings were held in cash, and so not invested, for an extended period since normal 
practice is for cash holdings to be transferred last.
Sterling says it received Ms Ms transfer request, for her pension savings, in 
November 2021. Whilst it is readily accepted that in-specie transfers will take longer 
to complete than simple movements of cash, I think the overall time taken was far too 
long. I think it would be reasonable to expect a transfer of this nature to complete 
within a maximum period of 12 weeks.
It is possible that some delays to that timescale might be outside the control of the 
sending firm. For example it would be reliant on external fund managers to complete 
a re-registration process for the investments. But any delays of that nature might be 
mitigated by the prompt and targeted chasing of progress. I havent seen anything to 
make me think that Sterling undertook activities of that nature on Ms Ms behalf.
Ms Ms transfer of her pension savings ultimately completed in July 2022. That was 
eight months after the request had first been received by Sterling. I have seen no 
explanation for that delay that would suggest it wasnt the reasonable fault of 
Sterling, either through a failure to initially commence the transfer within a reasonable 
time, or by failing to actively monitor the progress of any requests.
Considering what I said earlier, about expecting a transfer of this nature to complete 
within a maximum of 12 weeks, I currently think it would be reasonable to conclude 
that Ms Ms transfer should have been finalised by 21 January 2022 at the latest. And 
I further currently think that the delay can reasonably be considered to be the fault of 
Sterling. So I currently think that Sterling needs to follow the steps below to 
determine whether Ms M has lost out as a result of that delay, and if necessary pay 
her some compensation.
There is no doubt that the extended period of time that Ms M was without access to 
her pension savings would have caused her considerable inconvenience. And I have 
seen that Sterlings lack of communication caused her some distress as she found 
parts of her pension investments to be apparently missing from her accounts with 
both providers. I think those problems warrant a greater level of compensation than 
Sterling has already paid, and our investigator recommended. So I currently intend to 
direct Sterling to pay a further £400 (making a total payment of £500) to Ms M for the 
distress and inconvenience she was caused.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Ms M has said that she accepts my provisional decision and has 
nothing further to add. Sterling has failed to respond to my findings.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with any new evidence or further comments I see 
no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I think 
it would be reasonable to conclude that Ms Ms transfer should have been finalised by 
21 January 2022 at the latest. And I further think that the delay can reasonably be 
considered to be the fault of Sterling. So I think that Sterling needs to follow the steps below 
to determine whether Ms M has lost out as a result of that delay, and if necessary pay her 
some compensation.
Putting things right
I think Ms Ms transfer should have completed by 21 January 2022 at the latest.
So, following the completion of that transfer I expect that Ms Ms SIPP with Sterling would 
have been closed, and no longer liable for any administrative fees. Sterling should therefore 
refund to Ms M any fees it has taken since that date (that wouldnt have been taken if the 
transfer had completed by 21 January 2022). Sterling should add simple interest at a rate of 
8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement. HM Revenue & Customs requires Sterling to take off tax from this interest. 
Sterling must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Should Ms M have been holding any cash balances in her SIPP as a result of any 
investment sales needed to facilitate the transfer she will have lost out on investment returns 
as a result. Sterling should compensate Ms M by paying her investment returns on those 
cash balances equivalent to the average returns of her other pension investments between 
21 January 2022 and the date the cash was remitted to the new provider.
Sterling should pay an additional sum of £400 (making a total compensation payment of 
£500) for the distress and inconvenience the delays have caused to Ms M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint and direct Sterling ISA Managers Limited 
trading as Advance by Embark to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman