DRN-2518332
The complaint
Mr N complains about the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc in relation to a transfer between his 
HSBC sterling and euro denominated accounts.
What happened
Mr N holds both a sterling account and a euro account with HSBC. In March 2020, Mr N 
says he became increasingly concerned about the value of the pound against other 
currencies such as the euro. So, he decided to transfer £650,000 from his sterling account to 
his euro account.
The following day, Mr N said he checked his accounts online and couldnt see that the 
transfer had gone through. So, he called HSBC. One of HSBCs advisers told Mr N that the 
transfer wasnt successful, which Mr N said he was content with given that the value of the 
pound had stabilised by this point. However, nine days later, Mr N says he checked his 
online banking and noticed the transfer was successful. Mr N was unhappy with this, and 
said he lost a large amount of money as a result of HSBCs actions. So, he complained to 
HSBC.
HSBC reviewed matters and agreed Mr N had been given wrong information when he called 
to query if the transfer was successful. HSBC confirmed the payment wasnt cancelled but 
had been delayed as the team responsible for completing the required security checks had 
less staff in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. It paid Mr N £250 compensation for the delays 
in processing the transfer. Mr N remained unhappy, pointing out that the compensation was 
far less than the overall losses he thought he had sustained. He brought his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators reviewed matters and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
He thought Mr N sent a clear instruction that he wanted money moved between his accounts 
 and this couldnt be cancelled. He also thought HSBC was entitled to complete checks on 
the money before completing the transfer. He acknowledged Mr N was given incorrect 
information, but thought the £250 compensation HSBC had paid was enough to recognise 
this. 
HSBC didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr N did. He said that information about 
the checks carried out wasnt clear in the terms and conditions, nor was it made clear to him 
in the phone call with one of HSBCs advisers. He also thought the length of time taken to 
complete checks didnt leave him with enough time to mitigate his losses by, for example, 
moving the money back from his euro account to his sterling account.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain my reasons why.
When Mr N made the transfer, he instructed HSBC to move money from his sterling account 
to his euro account. Its unfortunate that following this, Mr N decided hed rather the money 
remain in the sterling account. But as HSBC has explained, once the transfer instruction was 
made it couldnt be cancelled. Having considered this, I think HSBC processed Mr Ns 
transfer in line with the instruction he gave.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ns account make it clear that payments may take longer to 
process, to allow HSBC to complete the required checks before being able to complete a 
transfer. With this in mind, and considering Mr N was moving a large sum of money, I think it 
was reasonable for HSBC to complete further checks on Mr Ns transfer. 
In its response to Mr Ns complaint, HSBC acknowledged that it took longer than expected to 
complete these checks on Mr Ns transfer. It said this was due to reduced staff numbers as a 
result of the COVID-19 pandemic. I accept that matters may have been delayed as a result 
of the pandemic, and I understand the effect this wouldve had on HSBCs staff. However, 
even considering this, I do think the nine days it took for the transfer to be processed was 
still too long. And, I can see this is something HSBC has also acknowledged in its 
correspondence to Mr N.
Mr N says this delay in processing the transfer has caused him a financial loss. He says that 
if HSBC had processed the funds without delay, he wouldve been able to mitigate his losses 
by, for example, transferring the money back into his sterling account. Having thought about 
this carefully, Im not persuaded that this wouldve been the case. I say this because the 
exchange rate had changed from the time Mr N instructed the transfer and hadnt gone in his 
favour. So, transferring the money back into his sterling account wouldve resulted in a loss. 
This is also supported by the fact that Mr N didnt transfer the money back into his sterling 
account nine days later when the money was available to him. So, whilst I acknowledge     
Mr Ns frustration in the transfer being delayed, Im not persuaded that the delay caused him 
a loss in the way he has described.
I recognise Mr N wouldve been disappointed to learn that the information he was given 
during his call with HSBC was incorrect, and that the transfer wasnt unsuccessful as hed 
been told. And, as mentioned, I think HSBCs delay in completing the transfer wouldve 
caused Mr N some frustration. Having thought about this carefully, I think the £250 
compensation HSBC has already offered is enough to recognise the disappointment and 
frustration caused here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank 
plc to make any further award to resolve this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman