DRN-2104175
The complaint
Miss P has complained about the decision by MetLife Europe d.a.c. to decline her claim for 
benefit under her employers group income protection insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss P was a member of her employers group income protection insurance policy, held with 
MetLife. The policy, after a deferred period of 26 weeks, would pay a regular benefit to 
Miss P if she was unable to perform her occupation due to illness or injury.
In December 2017, Miss P stopped working due to depression.
In May 2018, Miss Ps employer made a claim under the policy on her behalf.
After obtaining her medical records, MetLife declined the claim. It said the evidence didnt 
show that her reported symptoms were part of a clinical condition that would prevent her 
from working.  
Miss P appealed against MetLifes decision but it wouldnt change its position. Miss P 
therefore referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion, 
MetLife had acted reasonably.
Miss P didnt accept the investigators findings. She considered the fact she had been 
certified as unfit to work by several different doctors was sufficient to show the eligibility of 
her claim. She considered that MetLife had been half-hearted in its attempts to obtain further 
evidence which might have supported her case and pointed out that it had not taken up her 
fathers offer to pay for a medical assessment by a specialist of its choosing. She also 
considered she had been disadvantaged by her employer failing to make the claim sooner 
than it did.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy states: 
benefit is payable to the insured if they are unable to perform due to illness or injury, the
material and substantial duties required of them in their own occupation which they were
performing immediately prior to being incapacitated.
The policy further requires that Miss P meets the above criterion throughout the deferred 
period. In this case, that period is from December 2017 to June 2018.
The issue I therefore need to determine is whether it was reasonable for MetLife to say 
Miss P hadnt shown she was medically prevented from performing her occupation from 
December 2017 to June 2018.
 
Miss P reports that her symptoms of low mood started in February 2017 following the death 
of her grandfather.
In October 2017 Miss P saw her employers occupational health consultant. However, the 
concern at that time was in relation to kidney symptoms which were impacting on her ability 
to perform her job. It seems that those symptoms later resolved.
Miss P reports that in November 2017, she saw a private GP through an employee benefit 
scheme. She says the GP diagnosed her with chronic depression, prescribed her medication 
and referred her to a private psychiatrist. However, the employee benefit scheme didnt 
cover the cost of the consultation with the psychiatrist and Miss P couldnt afford it herself so 
she didnt go through with the referral. There is no evidence on file from the private GP. 
MetLife tried to contact her but received no response. 
In December 2017, Miss P stopped working. Later in December 2017, she visited her GP 
complaining of a low mood and saying she was struggling to cope with work. Her GP 
advised that she self-refer to an NHS counselling service. He certified her as unfit to work 
because of depression and continued to prescribe her medication.
Miss P returned to the GP surgery each month for the next six months, though she was not 
always seen by the same GP each time. On each occasion, she reported that she was not 
ready to go back to work and the GP continued to certify her as unfit to work. There was 
some variation in her medication during this period.
Meanwhile, in March 2018, Miss P was seen by her employers occupational health 
consultant. She explained to the consultant about her condition and progress. She said that 
she was still waiting for the NHS counselling service to be offered. The consultant expressed 
concern over the lack of medical intervention and progress. She encouraged Miss P to see a 
psychiatrist to get a diagnosis and a more effective treatment plan.
Miss P was eventually offered the NHS counselling service but this was over the telephone 
rather than face-to-face as Miss P wanted. In May 2018, her GP therefore referred her to a 
private psychotherapist. Miss P began seeing the psychotherapist in June 2018.
MetLife declined the claim because it considered the medical evidence didnt show that 
Miss P was medically prevented from performing her occupation. While I recognise it will 
come as a considerable disappointment to Miss P, I consider that this was a reasonable 
decision for MetLife to make.
While it is clear that Miss P was struggling with her mood over the relevant period, there is a 
lack of evidence to show that her symptoms were so severe as to stop her from working. 
The GP notes, while they confirm that Miss P felt unable to return to work, do not contain 
enough to confirm that her functional limitations were such that she couldnt have performed 
her occupation. I recognise that her GP certified her as unfit to work throughout this period 
but I would normally expect to see something more within the evidence to demonstrate the 
severity of Miss Ps condition. MetLife has referred to examples of objective and observable 
symptoms such as self-neglect and flat effect which might suggest significant mental illness. 
Recording of these types of symptoms is not present in Miss Ps medical records.I have considered the letters which have been provided by Miss Ps father but, as noted by 
MetLife, these do not comprise medical evidence. I have also considered the letter which 
has been provided from Miss Ps psychotherapist but I consider that this doesnt necessarily 
add much to the knowledge of Miss Ps functional limitation during the relevant period, not 
least because the psychotherapist didnt see Miss P until the deferred period had ended.
Miss P has questioned whether MetLife should have done more to obtain evidence in 
support of her claim. However, Im satisfied that MetLife acted reasonably in seeking the 
information it needed to assess the claim. I dont consider it was required to respond to the 
offer from Miss Ps father to pay for an independent medical assessment. The onus to prove 
a claim lies with the claimant and so if Miss P felt that such an assessment was likely to 
support her claim, it was open to her to undergo such an examination at her own expense in 
any case.
Miss P has also suggested that she was disadvantaged by her employer not making the 
claim on her behalf sooner. However, this is something she needs to raise with her 
employer; it is not anything to do with MetLife.
In summary, I sympathise with Miss P who has clearly gone through a very difficult period. 
And I note that MetLifes declinature of her claim caused a setback in her progress. 
However, I consider that it was reasonable for MetLife to say, based on the medical 
evidence available, that she hadnt shown she was prevented by illness from performing her 
occupation throughout the deferred period.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman