DRN-3655211
The complaint
Mrs S complains Santander UK plc (Santander) unfairly blocked her bank account and 
wouldnt release it unless she visited the branch, which she was unable to do due to health 
problems.  
What happened
Mrs S says after she had attempted to make a money transfer payment to a family member,  
Santander blocked her bank account. Mrs S says she telephoned Santander to ask it to 
remove the block on her bank account, but it told her the only way that was possible was for 
her to visit her local branch with identification. Mrs S says she explained to Santander she 
had health problems and was unable to attend the branch and was shielding from Covid and 
asked if she could send the information by email/ scan, but it refused. 
Mrs S says she hasnt had access to her bank account for many months and this has 
caused her financial problems and the stress has added to her poor health. Mrs S wants 
Santander to allow her access to her bank account or allow her to switch it to another 
provider, apologise and pay her compensation for the upset this has caused her. 
Santander says the block was placed on Mrs Ss bank account as a result of a telephone call 
it received, where concerns were raised that it was not her making the phone call. Santander 
says it correctly followed its security procedures and the block would not be removed until 
those concerns were satisfied. Santander says it is still necessary for Mrs S to attend the 
branch with photographic identification at her earliest convenience. 
Mrs S wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says given Santander had concerns over an attempted large payment from Mrs 
Ss bank account and it was also uncertain as to the identity of a telephone call it had 
received, it was reasonable for it to request a meeting in person to properly identify her. 
While the investigator understood that Mrs S had some health issues which may have made 
it  challenging to visit the branch, given the circumstances she didnt feel Santander had 
done anything wrong when it asked Mrs S to visit a branch with identification. The 
investigator suggested that Mrs S now arranges a visit to a branch and if that is not possible, 
to contact the business to discuss the possibility of a home visit.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander acted unreasonably when it 
placed a block on Mrs Ss bank account and then refused to remove it, until she made a 
branch visit to identify herself. 
I was sorry to learn of Mrs Ss health issues and I can understand it would have been 
upsetting for her to learn her bank account had been blocked, and the only way it could be 
removed was for her to visit a local branch, which was difficult for her given her poor health. 
Mrs Ss complaint centres around Santanders refusal to remove the block on her bank 
account unless she visited a branch, which she says wasnt possible as she was shielding 
from Covid and was suffering from other health problems. Mrs S makes the point that she 
explained this to Santander and offered to send scanned copies of her Identification, but 
Santander refused to accept this. 
Looking at the information provided to this service, its fair to say given the large transaction 
requested to be made from Mrs Ss bank account, along with the fact Santander had 
identified some other irregular payments being made, it wasnt unreasonable for Santander 
to satisfy itself these payments were genuine, after all this is to protect customers like Mrs S. 
What happened here was when Santander received a telephone call concerning the removal 
of the bank account block, it wasnt satisfied as to the  identity of the caller and then insisted 
the only way to properly identify Mrs S, was by her visiting a local branch with photographic 
identification. 
With that in mind I cant say Santander acted unreasonably when it blocked Mrs Ss bank 
account, or given the circumstances, it needed her to visit a branch to identify herself.
Mrs S has told this service she was shielding from Covid and was experiencing some health 
issues regarding her balance, and that must have been difficult for her, but its not for me to 
tell Santander that is reason enough for it to forego its identification procedures and 
processes. While I understand Mrs S has suggested she could scan identification 
documents to satisfy Santanders requirement, it has said that wasnt sufficient for its 
purposes or met its procedures and again I cant tell them it must accept this. 
I understand the investigator has provided Mrs S with telephone details for her to call 
Santanders security team directly to identify herself, or for Santander to possibly arrange a 
home visit. But Mrs Ss son, acting as her representative, says he would prefer this service 
to tell Santander to undertake a home visit as phone calls have proved difficult. 
While I understand that may be Mrs S and her sons preference, thats a decision for 
Santanders security team to approve and not something I can insist it agrees to. 
I am satisfied the best way forward here is for Mrs S, to telephone Santanders security team 
on the telephone number provided by the investigator, to discuss a suitable way forward 
here. 
While Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman