DRN-3601934
The complaint
Mr P complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr P is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around September 2015, Mr P was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call 
P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr P decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In September 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr Ps behalf under section 75 
of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr P to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr P or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr P and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had never shown Mr P the quote on which the adjudicator had relied, 
except to sign it;
Mr P had never had the opportunity to read it;
a copy of the quote had not been sent to him to read in his own time until two weeks 
later, on the day the system was installed (in October);
being satisfied with what he had been told in the sales meeting, Mr P had not thought 
it necessary to ask for a copy of the quote afterwards;
other customers have reported similar sales tactics, so Mr Ps claims were credible;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr P could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr P and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr P says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and three copies of the solar quote. Two of the quotes are titled Your 
Personal Solar Quotation, and are dated 29 September and 15 October 2015. The third is 
titled Getting Started and is dated 29 September 2015. The difference between the 
September quotes (which give the same figures, just in different layouts) and the October 
quote (which gives new figures) is that the September quotes are about a system with 12 
panels, and the October quote is about 15 panels. The cost did not change.
Ive considered all of these documents, along with Mr Ps testimony and recollection of the 
sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quotes are detailed documents that set out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. They have all been 
signed by Mr P.P, via Shawbrook, has told this service that the quotes formed a central part of the sales 
process and the representative of P would have discussed these in detail with Mr P, 
explaining any benefits of the system, prior to him agreeing to enter into the contract. Mr P 
denies that this ever happened. But I dont think its likely or plausible that Mr P simply took 
the salesmans word for it when he was told that he could buy thousands of pounds worth of 
equipment  paid for with an interest-bearing loan  without it costing him a penny, without at 
any point asking to see something to that effect in writing. Its more likely that Mr P has 
simply forgotten seeing them over the five years between the sale and the bringing of his 
claim. So on the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that the quotations did form a central 
part of the sales process when Mr P agreed to enter into the contract in September, and that 
the salesperson went through one of the September quotes during the meeting.
When the order was amended in October to increase the number of panels from 12 to 15, 
the new amended quote was emailed to Mr P the same day (Ive seen this email). On 
balance, I think it is more likely than not that the increase in the number of panels and the 
resulting changes to the quote would also have been discussed with him at the time. I am 
reinforced in that opinion by the fact that the new quote has been signed by Mr P, and the 
signature appears to be slightly different to those in the September quotes  it has not just 
been copied and pasted. So, Ive taken all of the quotes into account, along with Mr Ps 
version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mr P has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr Ps recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr P could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
September quote: October quote:
Starting with the September quote, I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr P 
could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of £399.49, which results in an 
average monthly income of £33.29. In the October quote, these figures are £428.98 and 
££35.75 respectively. Im satisfied that both of these documents set out that there would be 
a monthly loan repayment due of £89.54. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr P was 
told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr P could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings (in both quotes) are about £187 and, when taking into 
account the optional extras chosen by Mr P, the combined income and savings in year one 
are shown as £709.64 (September) or £739.15 (October). This is shown in a table titled 
Putting it all together.
September quote: October quote:
As the difference between the figures for 12 and 15 panels is not very much, I will 
concentrate on the amended quote from October from this point on. (The figures in the 
amended quote are slightly more advantageous to Mr S than those in the original quote.)
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr P entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £89.54. For each year of the 15 year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a 
negative figure for the first seven years of the loan, meaning that the system would not begin 
to make enough money to cover the loan payments until year eight. (In the September quote 
this took another year.)
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr P could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr P wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mr Ps version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr P that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. That section of the quote has been 
signed by Mr P, so Im satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im 
also satisfied that the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr P was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take ten years for the 
overall benefits that Mr P could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the ten-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This too shows that during year ten the overall benefits that Mr P could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system. (To save space I have only shown years 
1, 9 and 10 below.)
 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr P that the system would pay for its cash 
price in ten years, as supported by the graphic and the table above, which were included in 
the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what 
induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, then that could 
potentially amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider the performance of 
the system and whether this is in line with the contract between P and Mr P.
Performance
The MCS certificate and September quote set out that the system is expected to produce 
2,682 kWh a year; in the October quote this figure is 2,880 kWh. I have looked at Mr Ps FIT 
statements and can see that his system, on average, has generated 2,889 kWh a year. This 
is slightly more than estimated by P in September, and almost precisely what P estimated in 
October, so Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected, in terms of energy 
generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr P has not seen the expected financial returns 
is not because the system is defective, but for some other cause.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr P hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr P could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr P entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr P to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr P to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman