DRN-3071759
The complaint
Mrs D complains that TSB Bank PLC didnt raise chargeback requests in relation to 
payments shed made using her debit card. Shes also unhappy that she was unable to get 
through to their disputes team to discuss her problem over the phone. 
What happened
Mrs D had gift cards from a high street retailer, O, who went into administration. O told her 
that gift cards would no longer be accepted - they advised her to contact her bank to see if a 
chargeback could be made. 
Mrs D phoned TSB for help. Their advisor checked Mrs Ds account to see when shed made 
purchases with O using her debit card, and identified the following transactions:
18 December 2018 £25.00
14 January 2019 £22.19
15 January 2019 £22.40
15 January 2019 £22.40.
Mrs D says she couldnt get through to TSBs disputes team to discuss making a chargeback 
request, despite calling numerous times. She submitted an online request on 10 June 2020. 
TSB replied on 16 June 2020, saying they were unable to help because VISA regulations 
only allowed them 120 days from the date of the original transaction to dispute the payment.
On 24 June 2020 Mrs D emailed TSB again. She explained that her enquiry related to gift 
vouchers issued in exchange for faulty goods - and that she believed the relevant time limit 
to be 540 days. TSB replied on 7 July 2020, asking her to send them a copy of the vouchers 
shed been issued. Mrs D sent pictures of two gift cards shed been given instore and a 
screenshot showing another one issued online. 
TSB emailed Mrs D again on 15 July 2020, saying shed sent images of two different cards 
with no dates on them. They said the screenshot shed provided showed the date and month 
the online gift card was issued, but not the year. They asked her to confirm which was the 
correct card and whether she had any further evidence. Mrs D responded the same day, 
saying the online voucher was issued in 2020. She said shed only been able to find the 
receipt for one of the gift cards, which she attached. 
In response to Mrs Ds complaint, TSB said they hadnt made a mistake about the time limit 
that applied. They noted that shed sent additional evidence about her vouchers - they said 
theyd be in touch to let her know the outcome once this had been reviewed. They credited 
her £25 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed experienced and invited her 
to get in touch if shed incurred other expenses, such as phone calls.
 
Our investigator didnt think TSB had done anything wrong. She said the debit card 
transaction on 18 December 2018 was outside the timeframes set by VISA. She was 
satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for TSB to ask Mrs D to provide further evidence 
about the other three transactions, which fell within the timescale for a chargeback to be 
raised. She didnt think TSB had taken an unreasonable amount of time to respond to Mrs 
Ds emails. She felt their offer of £25 was fair and reasonable compensation for the calls 
shed had to make - and the fact that some of those calls couldnt be put through to the 
appropriate team. 
Mrs D disagreed  she thought shed contacted TSB within 540 days of the first transaction. 
She said the gift cards were valid for two years, but she wouldnt keep the receipts that long. 
She thought TSB would contact O to confirm the issue dates, because she couldnt get hold 
of this information. She felt shed already been inconvenienced by having to send emails 
back and forth  and that having to evidence how much shed spent on phone calls would 
add to this.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Chargeback is a process that can be used to settle disputes about debit card payments. Its 
a voluntary agreement set up by the card scheme, in this case VISA. Card issuers such as 
TSB dont have to raise chargebacks, and even if they do, theres no guarantee theyll be 
successful. As a matter of good practice, they should attempt a chargeback if a consumer 
has challenged a transaction and  taking account of the card scheme rules  there appears 
to be a fair chance that it may succeed. Ive considered whether TSB could reasonably be 
expected to have attempted to raise a chargeback for any of Mrs Ds gift cards based on the 
information that was available to them.
The VISA scheme rules set out the reasons for which disputes can be raised. These include:
Where the merchandise received by the cardholder was damaged or defective;
where the cardholder hasnt received goods or services because the merchant is 
unable to provide them. 
These types of dispute must normally be processed no later than 120 calendar days from 
the date of the transaction. A longer time limit may apply where the cardholder will receive 
goods or services at a later date  the maximum length of time for a dispute to be raised is 
540 calendar days from the transaction date. 
TSB said theyd be unable to dispute the transaction Mrs D had made on 18 December 2018 
because shed requested this outside the 120-day time limit. Theyve said that, even if they 
applied the maximum deadline of 540 days, her chargeback request was still too late. I think 
they made a mistake here  I dont find Mrs Ds chargeback request to have been made 
more than 540 days after the date of that first transaction. But I dont consider that to have 
made any difference to the outcome. Ill explain why. 
Mrs D has told us that she returned the goods shed bought on 18 December 2018 because 
they were faulty. Under the VISA scheme rules, defective goods would be a reason for which 
a chargeback could be made. But the rules clearly state that a chargeback can only be 
raised if Mrs D had attempted to return the goods and O refused to accept them. As O had 
accepted the return and issued a gift card, Im satisfied that Mrs D had already received 
redress for the faulty goods. So, I see no prospect of a chargeback being successful in 
respect of that transaction.
I can appreciate Mrs Ds disappointment that the gift card would no longer be accepted, 
even though it hadnt yet reached its expiry date. But as this gift card wasnt purchased using 
Mrs Ds debit card, I see no grounds under which a successful chargeback could be made.
Mrs D has told us about a total of three gift cards - Ive considered each one carefully. Ive 
seen photos of two gift cards numbered xxxx3256 and xxxx4817. Neither is marked with any information as to its value or date issued. The receipt Mrs D provided shows faulty goods 
were returned to an O store without a receipt on 25 November 2019  and that e-gift card 
numbered xxxx3256 was issued for the value of £24.00. So, Im satisfied that this gift card 
was also received in exchange for faulty goods, and not purchased using Mrs Ds debit card. 
So again, I see no grounds on which a chargeback could be raised.
Ive seen nothing that might give an indication of the value or issue date of the gift card 
numbered xxxx4817. I can understand Mrs Ds frustration that she was unable to get further 
information about this after O had gone into administration. But Im not persuaded that TSB 
couldve ascertained whether it had been purchased using Mrs Ds debit card. TSBs role is 
to assess whether Mrs D is able to provide evidence to back up her claim and, if appropriate, 
to attempt a chargeback. Its not their role to contact O - or Os administrators - to gather the 
evidence needed. 
Mrs D provided a screenshot of the gift card she received online. This shows a £25.00 gift 
card numbered xxxx5094 was issued on 10 January  but it doesnt include the year or 
nature of the transaction. Mrs D says it was issued in 2020. Apart from the first transaction 
dated 18 December 2018, Ive seen no evidence that Mrs D made a payment of £25.00 to O 
using her debit card. For this reason, I see no grounds on which a successful chargeback 
could be made in respect of this gift card. 
TSB have told us that they emailed Mrs D on 28 July 2020 explaining that they still dont 
have enough evidence to be able to dispute a specific transaction made using her debit 
card. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont consider them to have acted unfairly here. 
Customer service 
I appreciate Mrs D wouldve preferred to talk to someone in TSBs disputes team about her 
chargeback request. Although I accept what shes told us about the number of times she 
tried to call them, I havent seen any evidence that her phone bill was higher than usual.
Businesses are entitled to make decisions about how they communicate with their 
customers - and Im satisfied that Mrs D received prompt responses to her emails. TSB have 
already paid Mrs D £25 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed experienced. 
I think thats fair and reasonable, so I dont intend to direct them to do anything more.  
I said that I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint, but I invited both parties to send me any 
further comments theyd like me to consider.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs D said the £25 TSB awarded didnt cover all the issues shed raised, and that shed 
never had a response to her query about the 540-day deadline. She said she feels TSB 
gave her incorrect information from the start  and that as a result shed endured six months 
of stress trying to pursue an unsuccessful chargeback. She said she didnt think shed been 
able to explain that the cards were received in exchange for faulty goods when she first 
completed TSBs online form, because there hadnt been enough space for this information. 
She said she was particularly upset that TSB had failed to follow their own complaints-
handling procedure in this case, because they hadnt called her to discuss her concerns 
before issuing their final response to her complaint.
 
TSB made no further comments.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how disappointed Mrs D wouldve been when she discovered she wouldnt 
be able to use her gift vouchers. Once O had gone into liquidation, her only options were 
either attempting a chargeback through her bank or registering with the administrators as an 
unsecured creditor. Im satisfied that both options would involve inconvenience for Mrs D  
and neither was guaranteed to get her money back.
 
I appreciate Mrs D feels frustrated that TSB werent able to tell her straight away that a 
chargeback wouldnt be possible. But having looked at the information she sent them, Im 
satisfied that it wasnt possible for them to work out which debit cards transaction(s) she 
wished to dispute. In those circumstances I dont consider it unreasonable for TSB to ask her 
to provide further evidence - I wouldnt expect them to simply refuse her request without 
letting her know that theyd need more evidence for a chargeback to be successful. 
Different deadlines apply to chargeback requests, according to the type of goods or services 
purchased. Im satisfied that, without all the information about the transaction(s) concerned, 
TSB wouldnt be able to say with certainty which deadline applied in this case.
 
I can see Mrs D feels strongly that TSB shouldve followed their usual complaints procedure. 
Businesses are entitled to decide what processes theyll put in place for handling complaints 
 and to change them if they need to do so. This isnt something Im able to comment on.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman