DRN-1884996
The complaint
Mr A complains that his finance agreement with Santander Consumer (UK) Plc was 
terminated following his car being seized by the police.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander.
In October 2019 the car was seized by police due to the driver having no insurance.
Mr A says his cousin was driving the car and that he held insurance which had recently 
expired.
Santander retrieved the car from the police compound. It advised Mr A that it intended to 
terminate his agreement. Mr A wasnt able to pay the outstanding balance, so he decided to 
exercise his right to voluntary terminate.
In February 2020 Mr A complained to Santander. He said he has a friend who had a car 
seized in similar circumstances, however, the car had been returned to him. He didnt 
understand why this couldnt happen with him and wasnt happy that his agreement had 
been terminated. He queried how the voluntary termination liability had been calculated and 
aid he was being asked to pay too much.
In response, Santander explained that half of the amount payable under the agreement was 
calculated by reference to the opening balance, not the balance at the time of voluntary 
termination. It said it couldnt comment on other customers agreements and advised Mr A to 
contact the arrears team to agree a repayment plan.
Mr A wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He wants the 
termination of the agreement to be reversed.
Our investigator said that because Mr A had breached the agreement, Santander had the 
right to terminate it. But the investigator felt that it wouldve been fair for Santander to give 
Mr A the option to carry out a voluntary surrender at the time, along with the option to 
voluntary terminate or pay the outstanding balance in full.
Santander didnt agree. It said the terms and conditions of Mr As agreement gave it the right 
to voluntary terminate and that it had carried out this process correctly. It said there was no 
provision in the agreement for voluntary surrender and that this was only used for personal 
loan finance agreements.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the conditional sale agreement. This says that Mr A must not let anyone else 
use the car illegally and that he must keep the car in his possession. It also says Mr A must 
not allow the car to be seized or removed by the police and that if the car is seized, 
Santander can take the car into safe custody.
Mr A has signed the agreement to say that he accepts the terms and conditions. Looking at 
what happened, Im of the view that Mr A breached the agreement by allowing his cousin to 
drive the car without insurance, which resulted in the car being seized by the police.
Im satisfied that because the agreement was breached, Santander had the right under the 
terms and conditions to terminate the agreement. So, I cant say that Santander has acted 
unfairly here. I appreciate that Mr A has said that his friend was treated differently and 
allowed to keep his car. However, Im only able to look at whether Santander has acted fairly 
in the circumstances of Mr As case and based on what Ive seen, I think Santander has 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement by terminating the 
agreement.
In relation to termination of the agreement, and as Ive already said above, Im of the view 
that Santander acted in line with the terms and conditions when it terminated the agreement. 
Based on what Ive seen, this left Mr A with a liability of around £15,531 as at November 
2019.
The agreement was incepted in October 2018. So, it had only been running for around 1 
year when it was voluntary terminated. This meant that the car was still relatively new, and 
that Mr A hadnt paid a significant amount of the opening balance. 
Based on the information Ive seen, Mr As opening balance under the agreement was 
around £45,000. At the time of voluntary termination, hed paid monthly instalments of 
around £7000, together with a deposit of £750. Ive also taken into account that there 
wouldve been a rebate of interest if a voluntary surrender had taken place. The car was sold 
for around £19,000 in December 2019. Taking all this information into account, it seems 
likely that Mr A wouldve ended up with a lower outstanding liability if a voluntary surrender 
had been carried out. I think Santander shouldve discussed voluntary surrender with Mr A, 
as well as voluntary termination and paying the balance in full.
Ive taken account of the comments made by Santander regarding voluntary termination. 
However, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, I think Santander acted 
unfairly when it failed to explain all the available options with Mr A. It acted unfairly in not 
discussing a voluntary surrender. If such discussions had taken place, I think Mr A wouldve 
chosen the option which left him with the lowest liability, which on the evidence was a 
voluntary surrender.
Because of this, I think Santander should treat the outstanding debt as if a voluntary 
surrender had been carried put.
Putting things right
Im of the view that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must treat the outstanding debt as if Mr A 
had voluntary surrendered. It should use the net proceeds of sale of the car against the 
recalculated balance at the relevant time.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Santander Consumer (UK) Plc must treat 
the outstanding debt as if Mr A had voluntary surrendered. It must use the net proceeds of 
sale of the car against the recalculated balance at the time.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman