DRN-3188127
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard recorded a late payment 
on his credit file.
What happened
Mr G had a number of accounts with Barclays Bank. Mr G also has a Barclaycard. On 
27 April 2021 Barclaycard sent Mr G a statement that said his outstanding balance was 
£547.35 and that he needed to make a minimum payment of £20.72 by 25 May 2021. 
On 5 May 2021 Barclays Bank wrote to Mr G to say it had taken the decision to close his 
accounts. 
Barclaycard sent Mr G a text message and email on 25 May 2021 that said he needed to 
make a payment by 11:45pm to avoid a late payment fee. Mr G responded by text message 
to say he didnt have access to make a payment and that he hadnt had access to the card 
for the previous month. But the text message wasnt delivered. 
Barclaycard went on to apply a £12 late payment fee and record arrears on his credit file. 
Mr G made a payment the payment up on 17 June 2021 and complained. Barclaycard 
agreed to refund the £12 late payment fee but didnt agree it had made any errors. 
Barclaycard said it was a separate service to Barclays Bank and that it had sent Mr G 
statements setting out what he needed to pay. 
Mr G referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Barclaycard had dealt with Mr Gs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr G asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has explained he was confused by the letter he received from Barclays as he thought 
his accounts had all been closed. But Barclaycard has explained it operates separately. And 
its also provided copies of the credit card statements it sends Mr G each month. 
So whilst I understand Mr G mayve thought his Barclaycard was included in the account 
closures, I think its reasonable to note there was an outstanding balance of £547.35 given in 
his April 2021 statement. The statement was clear in explaining Mr G needed to pay £20.72 
by 25 May 2021. Even if Mr G thought his Barclaycard was included, there was nothing in 
the closure letter that said he wasnt required to maintain its monthly payments. 
Ive seen the text message Barclaycard sent Mr G and his response. I can see Mr G tried to 
raise the issue with Barclaycard by responding directly to the text message he received on 
25 May 2021. But its clear from the screen shot Mr Gs response was not delivered so not 
seen by Barclaycard. Given that Mr Gs phone showed his text message wasnt received, I 
think he wouldve been aware Barclaycard hadnt got his query. I dont think it would be fair 
to penalise Barclaycard for failing to respond to a text message it didnt receive. 
I understand this was a new situation for Mr G and that he mayve been confused. But I 
havent seen anything that shows Barclaycard told Mr G no further payments were required. 
Mr G has told us his Barclaycard stopped working. But Barclaycard has confirmed there 
were no blocks on his account and that his card remained active throughout. Barclaycard 
has also confirmed there were no attempted transactions that were declined by its systems 
during the period in question. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but as his credit card payment was made late Im satisfied its 
reasonable for Barclaycard to report that to the credit reference agencies. Barclaycard 
agreed to refund the £12 late payment fee and I think thats reasonable in the 
circumstances. As Im satisfied Barclaycard has dealt with Mr Gs complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman