DRN-4313353
Complaint
Mr H has complained that Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as Better Borrow) provided 
him with an unaffordable loan. 
He says he doesnt believe that adequate affordability checks were carried out, as this loan 
was provided when he was in considerable debt as a result of being in a cycle of borrowing 
which had reached its peak.  
Background
Better Borrow provided Mr H with a loan of £9,000.00 in August 2021. This loan had an APR 
of 17% and a 60-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £13,061.75, 
including interest, fees and charges of £4,061.55, was due to be repaid in 60 instalments of 
around £217.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that Better Borrow unfairly 
provided this loan to Mr H as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. 
Better Borrow disagreed with our adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Hs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Better Borrow complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr H would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Better Borrow act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Better Borrow complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
Better Borrow provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Better Borrow to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Hs ability to make the 
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Better Borrow had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr H. In practice this 
meant that Better Borrow had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Mr H undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Better Borrow to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.Were Better Borrows checks reasonable and proportionate?
Better Borrow says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr H prior 
to providing him with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Mr H declared that he was 
earning just over £3,600.00 a month. 
This declaration was electronically cross-checked against information showing how much  
Mr Hs bank account received each month. And Better Borrow also took account of Mr Hs 
existing credit commitments, asked him about his housing costs and using all of this 
information determined that Mr H would end up having £434 in disposable income left over 
each month. 
Ive carefully considered what Better Borrow has said. But the credit check it carried out 
showed Mr H was significantly indebted  he already owed more than his gross annual 
salary on an unsecured basis. It would also have been evident from Better Borrows credit 
check that Mr H was heading towards the limit of the revolving credit amount available to 
him. All of this leads me to think that Better Borrow needed to take steps to verify Mr Hs 
actual monthly expenditure. 
To be clear its not the terms of the loan on its own that leads me to think Better Borrow 
needed to do more, its the combination of this together with the indebtedness apparent in 
the information gathered which persuades me it would have been reasonable and 
proportionate to have taken this course of action here.
As I cant see that this Better Borrow did take further steps to verify Mr Hs expenditure, I 
dont think that the checks it carried out before providing Mr H with his loan were reasonable 
and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Better Borrow that Mr H 
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told Better Borrow that Mr H would have 
been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Better Borrow was required to establish whether Mr H could make his loan repayments 
without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear that Mr H was 
struggling under the weight of his commitments. He was borrowing from family, friends and 
other sources in an attempt to try and meet his existing commitments. So I think that 
proportionate checks would have shown Better Borrow that Mr H unlikely to be able to repay 
this loan without borrowing further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr H would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted Better Borrow to the fact that Mr H was in no sort of position to make the 
payments on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.Did Better Borrow act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Better Borrow acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other 
way. So I dont think Better Borrow acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some 
other way.
Did Mr H lose out as a result of Better Borrow unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr H paid and is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt 
have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what Better Borrow 
did wrong. So I think that Better Borrow needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Better Borrow needs to do to put things right for Mr H
Having thought about everything, Better Borrow should put things right for Mr H by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr H made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£9,000.00 originally lent. If Mr H has already repaid more than £9,000.00 then Better 
Borrow should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Mr H;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr H to the date of settlement;
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Better Borrow recorded about this loan should be removed from Mr Hs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Better Borrow to take off tax from this interest. Better 
Borrow must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Id also remind Better Borrow of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration 
if it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should one remain after all adjustments 
have been made to the account and its the case that Mr H is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Chetwood Financial Limited 
needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman