DRN-1455896
The complaint
Miss S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly opened two credit card 
accounts she could not afford, and later increased her credit limit on one card.
What happened
Miss S is represented in this complaint by her brother-in-law, Mr W.
In April 2016 Miss S opened a Luma credit card account with Capital One. In August of the 
same year, she opened an Ocean credit card account, also with Capital One. Both cards 
had a credit limit of £200. But in April 2017 her credit limit on the Luma card was increased 
to £1,200. All three of these lending decisions have been criticised by Mr W on the grounds 
that Capital One did not carry out proper creditworthiness checks, leading to it extending 
credit to Miss S which she could not afford.
Miss S fell into arrears, and a default notice was served in August 2019. Around that time, 
Mr W complained to Capital One on her behalf. Capital One insisted that it had carried out 
adequate checks to ensure that Miss S could afford the borrowing, an assertion which Mr W 
disputes. He brought this complaint to our Service, and told us that Miss S had suffered from 
serious health issues as well as her financial difficulties.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He thought that the evidence showed that 
Miss S had had a relatively good credit history up to the time that the cards were issued, and 
that she had a good payment history after that, suggesting that the cards had been 
affordable. Thereafter, Capital One had written to Miss S to tell her it was going to increase 
her credit limit, and she had not replied to say that she didnt want it. She had not told 
Capital One about her ill health until 2019, so it could not have taken that into account when 
it had decided to lend to her or to increase its lending.
Mr W asked for an ombudsmans decision. He made detailed submissions about why Capital 
One should have realised that Miss Ss financial situation had been precarious.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am minded to uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
In considering this complaint, I have asked myself three questions:
Did Capital One carry out adequate and proportionate affordability checks for each of 
its decisions to offer Miss S credit or more credit?
Could Miss S afford the credit or not?
If she couldnt, then should Capital One have realised that, having regard to the 
evidence it actually had, as well as any further evidence which it should have 
obtained but failed to?
I cant expect Capital One to take into account health problems of which it was not aware, 
and so I have disregarded that evidence. (That is not to say that Miss Ss health is not 
important, just that it could not have played a part in Capital Ones assessments of her ability 
to repay her debts.)
When Miss S applied for the first credit card, Capital One carried out an affordability 
assessment. I have seen records which show that Capital One was told that she was living 
with her parents, and that her gross annual income was £18,000. (I think Capital One was 
entitled to take Miss Ss word for what her income was, as it was a low figure. Lenders are 
permitted to assume that their customers, or prospective customers, are being truthful, within 
reason.)
Capital One noted that she had two current accounts. One had an overdraft limit of £1,250 
and an overdraft balance of £770, and the other had an overdraft limit of £500 and an 
overdraft balance of £284. She had no defaults, county court judgements, or insolvencies 
recorded on her credit file. This information does not suggest to me that a decision to give 
her a credit card with a £200 limit was necessarily irresponsible.
I was seriously concerned by the fact that Capital One says it did not carry out an income 
and expenditure check. It knew her income, as Ive said above, and it had seen her credit 
file. But a credit file does not record all expenditure, as not every expense is a form of credit. 
A failure to ask about all outgoings seems to me to be a significant shortcoming in Capital 
Ones affordability checks, and so I considered upholding this complaint in its entirety on this 
basis.
However, the subsequent history of this account suggests that it was actually affordable. 
Miss S made more than the minimum payments every month until July 2017 (which was 
after the other two lending decisions), and stayed within her credit limit. She also significantly 
reduced her two overdrafts, to £413 and nil, over the next four months. So I am not 
persuaded that I should uphold her complaint about the decision to give her this credit card.
Four months later, Capital One gave Miss S another credit card. I dont think her application 
for a second card necessarily suggests that she was in financial difficulty. It may be that she 
wanted to use different cards for different purposes, for budgeting reasons, or as a way of 
improving her credit rating.
Capital One carried out the same checks as before. I have already described the improved 
state of her current accounts. She now had a third current account, but it did not have an 
overdraft facility (and did not have an unarranged overdraft balance). She still had no 
defaults or judgements against her name. However, balanced against that are the facts that 
her income had now dropped to only £10,000 a year, and she was no longer living with her 
parents but was described as a private tenant. She must therefore have been paying rent, 
but Capital One did not ask her how much. Mr W says it was £550 a month, and that she 
was also paying £100 council tax and £100 for utilities, and I accept those figures. That 
would have left her with a disposable income of less than £85 a month. There may well have 
been other expenses too (she was a single mother), and Mr W says that Miss Ss disposable 
income actually reached a negative figure.
I think that Capital One should have asked Miss S more questions and sought more 
evidence. I am not satisfied that its checks were adequate. And although she mostly made 
more than the minimum payments, she also exceeded her credit limit and missed a payment in only the third month of the account, and exceeded her limit again soon after that. That 
would not always indicate that the account holder was experiencing financial difficulties, but 
in light of the substantial decrease in her income and her change of accommodation, 
I currently think, on the balance of probabilities, that the second credit card was not 
affordable. 
I have no doubt that the credit limit increase on the first card was offered irresponsibly and 
that it was not affordable. This was a limit increase of £1,000, which took Miss Ss overall 
credit limit with Capital One from £400 to £1,400, without her outgoings being asked for or 
taken into account. By this time her income had gone back up to £18,000 a year, but it does 
not follow that she could afford this limit increase. I think that any proportionate 
creditworthiness check for an additional £1,000 would include an assessment of income and 
expenditure. I have noted than Miss S had the opportunity to decline the increase and that 
she did not do so, but that does not absolve a lender from carrying out proper checks.
The subsequent history of that account supports Mr Ws claim that Miss S was in financial 
difficulty from that point on. The first full month with the new limit was May 2017, and from 
July and August 2017 she only made minimum payments, which became a permanent state 
of affairs from October. She exceeded her credit limit from July to October. She stayed 
within her limit for 2018, but exceeded the limit again from January 2019 until the account 
was defaulted, having made no payments from March of that year.
For the above reasons, I am currently minded to say that Capital One should refund all 
interest and charges on the first account from the date of the limit increase, which is 28 April 
2017, and all interest and charges on the second account since it was opened.
Responses to my provisional decision
Capital One did not accept my findings. It maintained that it had carried out sufficient checks, 
including checking with credit reference agencies. It referred me to financial regulations, 
specifically CONC 5.2A.17R, which (it argued) stated that lenders only have to determine 
non-discretionary expenditure when it is proportionate to do so, and that this would not have 
been proportionate for issuing a new card with a credit limit of £200. Instead it had estimated 
Miss Ss expenditure based on data supplied by the Office for National Statistics. 
Capital One further argued that there had been no indication that Miss S was in financial 
difficulty prior to any of the lending decisions. Although her income had dropped temporarily, 
it had increased again by the time of the limit increase. When applying for her Ocean card, 
her Luma card account was in good order, and at the time of the credit limit increase, she 
had made payments totalling around four times the minimum payments. Although there had 
been some late payments on the Ocean card, they had only been late by a few days. Capital 
One said that Miss S had not begun to miss payments on her Luma card until 2019, two 
years after the limit increase. Until then there had been no missed payments, few late 
payments, and payments were routinely for more than the minimum. There had been no 
indication that the cards or the limit increase would not be affordable.
Mr W accepted my provisional decision. In response to Capital Ones comments, he 
reiterated that between Miss Ss income reduction of nearly 45%, her rent and other bills, 
she would not have had enough income to afford the second card. He argued that the 
income drop should have prompted Capital One to ask her further questions about her 
circumstances, as it was an indicator of financial vulnerability. He told us that the 
overpayments had been made with the help of her family (Mr W and his wife, Miss Ss 
sister). He said Capital One had not given enough weight to the late payments, which had 
been a clear sign of financial difficulty.My findings
CONC 5.2A came into force in November 2018, which was after all of the lending decisions. 
The regulations which applied at the time are to be found in CONC 5.2.1
CONC 5.2.3G sets out a list of factors which a lender may take into account, which includes 
rent and utilities. But CONC 5.2.4G(1) says that considering all of the factors on that list is 
unlikely to be proportionate. Given the low value of the credit being granted in the second 
lending decision (£200), I would agree with Capital Ones argument that, generally speaking, 
it would not necessarily be proportionate to ask a customer about all of their outgoings if it is 
considering statistical data instead. To that extent, I have departed from my provisional 
findings.
But despite that, I nevertheless still remain of the view that more diligent checks than the 
usual were called for in Miss Ss case, because of the significant change in her financial 
circumstances since four months earlier. There had been the sharp drop in her income, and 
the change in her accommodation arrangements. Given these facts, which were known to 
Capital One when it issued the Ocean card, I think that asking Miss S about her 
discretionary and non-discretionary outgoings would not have been disproportionate, 
notwithstanding the good (but brief) history of her Luma account. Had it done so, I still think 
that it would probably have discovered that her disposable income was nil, for the same 
reasons I gave in my provisional decision.
Even if I had taken a different view about that, I would still have concluded that the credit 
limit increase of £1,000 would have made enquiries about Miss Ss outgoings necessary and 
proportionate.
Although Miss S did not miss any payments on her Luma card until 2019, that is not the 
complete picture. As I said before, almost as soon as her credit limit on that account was 
increased in April 2017, she began (in July) making only minimum payments, which was a 
permanent change to her spending pattern (with the exception of September 2017). That is 
not conclusive evidence, but I find it to be persuasive enough that, on the balance of 
probabilities, Miss S could not afford the card once the limit had been increased.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Capital One (Europe) plc to refund 
Miss S all interest and fees charged to her Luma credit card account since 28 April 2017, 
and refund all interest and fees charged to her Ocean credit card account since it began.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S, or Mr W 
on her behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 See https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/CONC/5/2.html?date=2015-11-02&timeline=True