DRN-3309534
The complaint
A club, which Ill refer to as W, complains that it was unable to apply to HSBC UK Bank Plc 
for a Bounce Back Loan due to problems with the online application process.
Ws treasurer, Mr G, brings the complaint on the clubs behalf.
What happened
W is a longstanding customer of HSBC. It approached the bank in early March 2020 for a 
business loan to fund some repairs. The loan was approved and drawn down in late June 
2020. W also borrowed additional funds from a third party around the same time.
While the loan application was pending, the government-backed Bounce Back Loan Scheme 
was launched in early May 2020. W wanted to apply for a Bounce Back Loan, with a view to 
utilising this instead of the business loan. But Mr G didnt think there was a suitable option to 
confirm Ws entity type within the online application  while there were options for certain 
business entities (such as sole traders, partnerships and limited companies), there wasnt 
one for clubs. And when seeking advice from HSBC, he didnt receive a satisfactory answer 
as to how W should complete the application. 
When Mr G complained, HSBC referred him to the clubs accountant for guidance. Mr G did 
that, but the accountant couldnt advise him either.
Mr G subsequently referred the matter to us. He said the only option presented to date was 
to define W as a partnership  but it was not, and Mr G was concerned that doing so would 
be fraudulent. So he wanted HSBC to facilitate Ws Bounce Back Loan application. And as 
the Bounce Back Loan had a 12-month interest free period, he thought HSBC should 
reimburse W for the interest it would pay over that period on the two loans it had obtained 
instead.
One of our investigators reviewed Ws complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. In 
summary, she thought the workaround solution that HSBC had proposed  that W apply as a 
partnership  was reasonable. But she thought it had taken the bank too long to propose 
this, putting W to some inconvenience as a result, for which she recommended it pay £200. 
She didnt think HSBC needed to compensate W for the interest it was paying on its loans, 
as this wasnt a consequence of being unable to access the Bounce Back Loan (and for 
which there was no guarantee W wouldve been approved).
HSBC accepted our investigators view, but Mr G didnt. He still didnt think that applying as 
a partnership was a viable solution. This was because the application said that the personal 
assets of partnerships may be at risk if the repayments werent maintained  and that 
submitting inaccurate information could lead to criminal prosecution for fraud. And he said 
that W wouldve obtained the Bounce Back Loan if it couldve applied, so the bank was 
responsible for the losses it had suffered in having to borrow elsewhere instead. As well as 
the additional interest, this included delays in getting that borrowing  which had in turn 
caused delays in completing the repairs and reopening the club, leading to a loss of income.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
As my initial conclusions differed from those of our investigator, I issued a provisional 
decision to both parties last month to invite any further submissions they wished to make 
before I made a final decision. 
In summary, I said:
There were shortcomings in HSBCs application process that had prevented W from 
applying to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan. Clubs were entitled to apply for 
borrowing under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and HSBC hadnt said that it wasnt 
accepting applications from them for any reason. So there was no reason why W 
shouldnt have been able to submit an application to HSBC at the time it attempted to 
do so.
At the time W was trying to apply, HSBCs application process didnt include an 
appropriate entity type for the club to select. It wouldnt have been appropriate for W 
to declare itself to be any of the other entities provided. Even if HSBC could offer 
some level of assurance to W that it would accept an application from it as a 
partnership, Mr Gs reservations about making such a false declaration were 
justified  given the possible consequences of submitting incorrect information, and 
the level of personal liability that partners of a partnership were required to accept (as 
distinct from that of the club and those who run it). And HSBC had later amended its 
process, with the inclusion of non-charitable club or association, which further 
suggested that something similar ought to have been available earlier. 
I appreciated the difficulties HSBC wouldve faced in rolling out the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme  which was done at short notice and had led to unprecedented 
demand, all while dealing with the impact of the coronavirus pandemic  but still 
thought the bank shouldve been able to accommodate Ws application sooner. 
While shortcomings on the banks part meant that W couldnt complete its Bounce 
Back Loan application to HSBC when it had wanted to, I didnt think it was fair to hold 
the bank responsible for the losses that Mr G had described  as steps couldve been 
taken to avoid these losses. While not ideal, I thought W couldve applied elsewhere 
for a Bounce Back Loan when it couldnt complete its application to HSBC. And the 
bank had advised Mr G that it was working on an amendment to facilitate 
applications from clubs  which was duly implemented in February 2021. So W could 
then have applied  and used the Bounce Back Loan to refinance other borrowing as 
it intended. But it hadnt done this either. So I didnt think HSBC ought to compensate 
W for any additional interest paid under its alternative arrangements.
I did, though, see that W was inconvenienced by the problems it had experienced 
when attempting to apply. Mr G had to follow up with HSBC on a number of 
occasions, making calls, sending emails and ultimately raising a complaint  despite 
which, the bank was unable to offer a suitable resolution. Some of the responses 
provided by the bank were unhelpful and led to further inconvenience. This took up a 
lot of Mr Gs time  taking him away from Ws other affairs, causing it inconvenience 
for which I thought HSBC should pay £300 compensation.HSBC accepted my provisional decision, but W didnt. Mr G responded to say, in summary, 
that:
It wouldnt have been possible for W to obtain a Bounce Back Loan elsewhere. An 
alternative lender wouldve queried why the club hadnt approached its existing bank. 
He thought the club wouldve failed any credit-scoring on the basis of the credit 
searches done by HSBC, or that the club wouldve been required to provide security 
given it wouldve been approaching other providers as a new customer.
HSBC hadnt made W aware that its process had been amended so it had not known 
to reapply. It wasnt reasonable to expect W to have checked the banks website 
daily.
It was an understatement to say that W had been inconvenienced by the problems it 
had experienced. Ws business loan had taken four months to complete, but I hadnt 
commented on this delay  which had meant the club was unable to complete its 
repairs in time to reopen when the coronavirus restrictions eased, leading to lost 
business and financial losses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that set out in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why Mr Gs further points havent led me to a different view.
While I note Mr G doesnt think W could have successfully applied for a Bounce Back Loan 
elsewhere, I dont agree. Lenders were providing loans to new customers and while 
applicants were directed to their existing account provider in the first instance, the absence 
of a pre-existing relationship wasnt a pre-requisite. All the more so here, given that W could 
legitimately point to the issue that was preventing it from applying with HSBC in the first 
place. 
It is also not the case that a provider wouldve required security to be given  this was not 
permitted under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme rules. And Bounce Back Loan applications 
werent subject to credit-scoring, so I dont think any record of HSBCs credit searches 
wouldve prevented W obtaining a loan elsewhere. It may have been necessary for W to 
apply for an account in order to apply elsewhere, which would likely have been credit-
scored  but I dont think it likely that a credit search alone wouldve caused any issues in 
this regard. 
I accept that W was unaware that HSBC had amended its process such that clubs could 
properly complete applications in February 2021, but still it could have checked with the 
bank as to whether the amendment had been implemented (given that it was aware of the 
banks intentions in this regard). I dont think this meant that W had to check on a daily basis, 
but if it still wanted the loan then I think it is reasonable to suggest it could have checked in 
periodically (for example, once a month). 
So I still dont think HSBC deprived W of access to the Bounce Back Loan Scheme 
altogether  and so I dont think it is fair to hold the bank responsible for any loss that the 
club may have suffered because it didnt obtain a loan under the Scheme.
Ive also reflected on my proposed award of £300 for the inconvenience W was caused by 
the service it received in light of Mr Gs further comments. Many of these relate to delays the club experienced in receiving the business loan from HSBC. I should explain that I didnt 
comment on those matters because they dont relate to the Bounce Back Loan issue  which 
was the subject of this complaint. They relate to a separate issue altogether and one which 
would need to be addressed by way of a separate complaint. We have only considered 
matters relating to the Bounce Back Loan application, given that was the complaint originally 
referred to us. So if W is also unhappy with the service it received in respect of the business 
loan application, those concerns would need to be raised as a separate complaint. 
In respect of the inconvenience W was caused by the problems encountered when 
attempting to apply for a Bounce Back Loan, I still think £300 represents fair compensation  
so thats what Im requiring HSBC to pay.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay W compensation of 
£300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman