DRN-2203206
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined their claim against their travel 
insurance policy following cancellation of their trip.  Mr and Mrs Ms broker is assisting them 
in bringing their complaint. 
What happened
In October 2018, Mr and Mrs M booked a trip with intended departure and return dates in 
October 2019. On 30 August 2019, Mr and Mrs M took out a single trip travel insurance 
policy with AXA. Mr M declared one medical condition: hiatus hernia. On the same day 
as the policy was taken out, Mr M contacted his GP about a dizzy spell and poor co-
ordination. On 3 September 2019, Mr M was admitted to hospital and was subsequently 
diagnosed with Millar-Fisher syndrome, a variant of Guillain-Barre syndrome. He was 
advised not to travel. Mr and Mrs M cancelled their trip and made a claim against the 
policy for unrecovered costs. 
AXA declined Mr and Mrs Ms claim. It said that Mr M was experiencing symptoms of 
Millar-Fisher syndrome before Mr and Mrs M took out the policy. AXA said that the policy 
was purchased shortly before Mr M contacted his GP on 30 August 2019, which 
suggests that Mr and Mrs M took out the policy with the intention of making a claim. It 
relied on an exclusion in the policy which says that theres no cover for claims resulting 
from circumstances known at the time of purchasing the policy. AXA  said that Mr and 
Mrs M had misrepresented their claim.  
Mr and Mrs M think that AXA decision to decline their claim is unfair. They say that Mr M 
experienced standard cold and flu symptoms two weeks before they took out the policy 
and didnt have a medical condition when the policy was purchased. Mr and Mrs M want 
AXA to pay their claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that AXA had 
treated Mr and Mrs M unfairly in declining the claim. The investigator said that whilst    
Mr M hadnt received a diagnosis when Mr and Mrs M bought the policy, hed had 
several symptoms, so was aware of circumstances that could lead to a claim.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigator. They said that on 30 August 2019, Mr M 
was discharged from hospital and told that his symptoms were likely related to an old 
neck injury. Mr and Mrs M say that Mr M had a cold or virus in the two to three weeks 
before they took out the policy and they didnt have to disclose that. They say that Mr M 
had symptoms of and was diagnosed with a condition after inception of the policy, so he 
had no reason to believe he may make a claim on the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M say that they saved for the trip for some 18 months and are upset that it 
may be considered that they were aware of any circumstances they failed to share.      
They say that they bought the policy after theyd completed the budgeted payment 
schedule for their trip.
Mr and Mrs M asked that the principle of estoppel be considered. They said that AXA 
relied on policy wording that wasnt in the policy.
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs M said but didnt change her view. Mr and 
Mrs M asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows: 
Remember, no policy covers everything. We do not cover certain things such as, but not 
limited to:
[]
Circumstances known to you before you purchased this insurance which could 
reasonably have been expected to lead to a claim will not be covered.
[]
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
When an insurer seeks to rely on an exclusion in the policy, it must show that it applies in the 
particular circumstances that led to the claim. I think that AXA has done that here. I say that 
because:
The medical evidence doesnt support Mr and Mrs Ms contention that Mr M had only 
flu-like symptoms shortly before they took out the policy. The partly redacted notes of 
Mr Ms treatment in A&E on 30 August 2019 record that Mr M had pins and needles 
and altered sensation in his hands since Monday (26 August 2019) and that he 
suffered loss of co-ordination and double vision on Tuesday (27 August 2019). 
Those symptoms were part of Mr Ms later diagnosis of Millar-Fisher syndrome.
So, when Mr and Mrs M bought the policy on 30 August 2019, they knew of the 
symptoms which were part of the condition with which Mr M was subsequently 
diagnosed and which led to the cancellation of the trip. In those circumstances, I 
dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for AXA to conclude that before they bought 
the policy, Mr and Mrs M knew of circumstances which could reasonably have been 
expected to lead to a claim.
I appreciate that Mr M didnt received a diagnosis of Millar-Fisher syndrome until his 
stay in hospital in early September 2019, but that doesnt alter the outcome here. 
Thats because AXA didnt decline the claim on the ground that Mr M hadnt 
disclosed a pre-existing condition: it declined the claim because when Mr and Mrs M 
bought the policy, they knew of circumstances which could reasonably have been 
expected to lead to a claim. 
Mr and Mrs M say that on his visit to A&E on 30 August 2019, Mr M was told that his 
symptoms likely related to an old neck injury. That doesnt alter the fact that when   Mr and Mrs M bought the policy they knew of Mr Ms symptoms. Those symptoms 
were part of the condition with which Mr M was subsequently diagnosed and which 
led to the cancellation of the trip. 
Insurance is intended to cover unexpected events. As Mr and Mrs M knew about     
Mr Ms symptoms when they took out the policy, the cancellation of the trip wasnt an 
unexpected event. 
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy on the same day as Mr M had an emergency phone 
consultation with a GP and attended A&E, knowing that hed had symptoms in the 
previous few days. In the circumstances, I dont think that AXA acted unfairly in 
relying on the exclusion in the policy which Ive referred to above. 
Mr and Mrs M say that AXA referred to incorrect wording in the policy in order to 
decline the claim and wish to rely on the doctrine of estoppel. In its letter to Mrs M of 
18 November 2019, AXA paraphrased the relevant part of Mr and Mrs Ms policy and 
incorrectly referred to a heading  Section A. Im satisfied AXA considered the claim 
against the correct policy terms and its erroneous reference to Section A doesnt 
invalidate its decision. The doctrine of estoppel has no relevance here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman