DRN-3937643
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she had difficulty setting up a repayment plan with Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (trading as Barclaycard). 
What happened
Mrs B says that she made a significant number of phone calls to Barclaycard when she was 
unable to meet her minimum monthly payment on her credit card account. She says there 
were issues with phone lines being dropped, noises in the background and general bad 
lines, specifically with call centers in India. She says she completed an income and 
expenditure form over the phone but did not agree with the amount of disposable income it 
said was remaining. 
Barclaycard acknowledged that Mrs B experienced some poor customer service and paid a 
total of £65 compensation in recognition of this. They said that Mrs B had initially been 
unwilling to answer all the questions in the income and expenditure form which delayed the 
process of a repayment plan being set up. But a repayment plan was agreed on 7 June 2022 
which has since been maintained.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and explained that certain aspects were outside of 
our remit as an organisation. For example, we could not comment on how a business 
chooses to operate its call centers or the level of training it provides its staff. They agreed 
that it was reasonable for the business to ask for a full income and expenditure review prior 
to agreeing a repayments plan, and that some of the delays were caused by Mrs B. In light 
of the difficulties with communication, they felt that the compensation already offered and 
paid was fair in the circumstances. Mrs B disagreed with the outcome and felt Barclaycard 
had not acted properly in the circumstances. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. I think the offer of 
compensation already paid by Barclaycard is reasonable in the circumstances. Ill explain 
why in more detail. 
Mrs B contacted Barclaycard several times when she began struggling to maintain the 
minimum payments on her credit card account. Ive looked at the contact notes and listened 
to some of the relevant calls and can see that on a number of occasions, Mrs B declined to 
complete the full income and expenditure form over the phone, and when she was sent one 
in the post, she did not return it. 
I can understand Mrs Bs reasoning for this, as she says she does not trust the way in which 
Barclaycard calculates the expendable income. But my role is to assess if Barclaycard has 
acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. And I think it is reasonable that 
Barclaycard have a full understanding of Mrs Bs financial situation prior to agreeing a 
repayment plan that is fair for all parties involved. And that they dont just accept a figure 
presented by Mrs B as to what she feels she can afford. Because of this, I dont think it is 
unreasonable that they did not agree a repayment plan without a full income and 
expenditure being completed. 
I listened to a phone call in which Mrs B did run through her income and expenditure, but the 
figure that was reached as to what she could afford felt too high to her. There was 
miscommunication on this phone call and the call handler quoted an incorrect figure which 
confused the situation more. And I can understand why this call was so frustrating for Mrs B. 
But I also note that Mrs B became abusive over the phone and repeatedly swore at the call 
handler, which eventually led to the call handler terminating the call. And this also happened 
on a number of other telephone calls around the same time. It is understandable that Mrs B 
was distressed by the situation and frustrated that she wasnt being given a repayment plan 
as quickly as she would have liked. But I have to take into consideration that some of the 
difficulties in communication and the delays in the process were caused by Mrs Bs 
behaviour during the phone calls and were not solely due to issues with Barclaycards phone 
lines. 
A repayment plan was agreed within a few days of this phone call which suited all parties 
and was still in place the last time Barclaycard updated us. On balance, having considered 
everything available to me, I think that the £65 already offered and paid is a fair amount of 
compensation in the circumstances. I think it accounts for the miscommunication Mrs B 
experienced and any service issues she experienced. So, I dont think Barclaycard needs to 
take further action to remedy this complaint.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman