DRN-1204507
The complaint
Mr B complains about the amount of time it took Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd to act 
when he told it a policy was taken out in his name by someone else.  
What happened
In March 2019 a policy was arranged with Be Wiser in the name of Mr B though a 
comparison website. A deposit was paid with the remaining annual premium to be spread 
over 9 monthly payments. 
Be Wiser carried out the necessary validation checks and anti-fraud checks, and this all 
came back clear. It wrote to the email address it had been given as part of the arrangement 
of the policy and received no response initially. 
On 23 April Mr B contacted Be Wiser as he had received direct debit documents from a 
finance company. He explained that he hadnt purchased the insurance and no payment had 
been taken from his bank card.
During this time Be Wiser continued sending emails to the email address it had been 
provided when the policy was arranged  so Mr B wasnt receiving them. On 10 May it 
cancelled the policy as it hadnt received any replies with an outstanding balance of £113.71. 
On or around 10 May 2019 Mr B received a letter confirming the policy had been cancelled  
so he considered the matter had been resolved. 
But Be Wiser continued chasing the outstanding balance  and it did so by contacting the 
number and email it had been provided when the policy had been initially arranged. 
On 2 July 2019 Mr B received a letter from a debt collection company requesting payment of 
£148. He contacted Be Wiser shortly after and explained that the policy had been taken out 
fraudulently. He also complained on the basis that he had already raised this issue with Be 
Wiser in April and it appeared no action had been taken as a result.  
Be Wiser put the collection on hold while it investigated. A few days later Be Wiser wrote to 
Mr B and sent him its final response. It explained that the debt would be waived, his details 
had been removed from their systems and it offered him a £10 voucher as a gesture of 
goodwill. It explained its process for validating policies, including the anti-fraud checks, and 
that when a policy is arranged, it is done so on up most good faith that each customer is 
declaring the true and correct information. It said that once the policy was arranged, it 
carried out validation checks on the details provided, including requesting proof in the event 
of inconsistencies. It said that as the name provided matched the address provided when the 
policy was arranged, no inconsistencies were flagged. 
Mr B didnt consider this sufficiently compensated him for the trouble and upset he had been 
caused by the matter and referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs concerns and agreed he hadnt been treated 
fairly. In short, she acknowledged that Be Wiser had followed its usual process initially when incepting the policy and there didnt initially appear to be any inconsistencies. But she also 
acknowledged that Mr B had contacted Be Wiser in April to confirm that he hadnt in fact 
taken out the policy  yet it appeared Be Wiser took no action following this communication. 
Given all the circumstances of the case she considered Be Wisers inaction caused Mr B a 
considerable amount of trouble and upset and recommended it pay him £200 to put things 
right. 
Mr B agreed, but Be Wiser didnt. In short, it said:
Be Wiser conducted validation checks on each policy, and it couldnt be held 
responsible for a third party using Mr Bs details fraudulently. It said there were no 
inconsistencies in the information provided initially. 
It said the stress Mr B had experienced was caused by the person who had 
fraudulently used his details, not Be Wiser. 
It acknowledged that it took time to resolve the issues  but Mr Bs credit rating 
hadnt been affected and there was no future negative impact on Mr B. 
So it felt the investigators award was excessive given the circumstances. 
 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has already explained, I dont think this case is really about the initial 
inception of the policy. In looking at the information which was provided at the start, its clear 
that with the exception of the contact email and phone number, all other information 
appeared to be consistent. And I acknowledge that Be Wiser followed its usual processes 
when validating the details it was provided, and these checks didnt flag up anything 
untoward. 
But its equally evident that Be Wiser took no action following Mr Bs call in April to notify it 
that a policy had been taken out in his name without him knowing. I consider at this point Be 
Wiser ought to have done far more to establish what had happened  and it clearly wasnt 
good enough to use the contact details it had on file, when it ought to have been reasonably 
suspicious that those details may not in fact have been Mr Bs. Especially as it had a postal 
address which it couldve used. 
I agree with Be Wiser that it wasnt its fault that a third party had fraudulently used Mr Bs 
details to take out the policy initially. But it was its fault that it took no action following Mr Bs 
calls in April  nor that it didnt apply any common sense to the ways in which it asked the 
policyholder to confirm their details. If it had any doubts about what Mr B told it over the 
phone, it ought to have investigated immediately. 
All this was combined with the cancellation letter Mr B did received  which he, I think 
reasonably, took to mean the matter had been closed and the policy cancelled. But it 
appears to me that Be Wiser hadnt cancelled the policy because it had been fraudulently 
taken out  it had cancelled the policy because it didnt receive any replies asking for 
confirmation of the information provided from the policyholder. As a result, there was a 
charge outstanding.
So unbeknown to Mr B, Be Wiser continued pursuing him for this debt by emailing and 
texting the number it had on file. And when no replies were received, the debt was passed to a collection agency  and it was only at this point that Mr B became aware that far from 
being resolved, the issue had in fact got even worse. 
Its clear from Mr Bs communications to Be Wiser and this service that at that point the 
matter was causing him a significant amount of distress and inconvenience  especially 
given the realisation that nothing had happened following his call in April. 
What makes this worse is that, once Be Wiser investigated Mr Bs claims properly, it 
resolved the matter very quickly  because it was clear that Mr B hadnt in fact taken out this 
particular policy. So the matter couldve been resolved within a week or two of Mr Bs call on 
23 April. In this context I think its also important to remember that for most consumers, 
receiving a letter from a debt collection agency threatening further action is upsetting even if 
it is anticipated  I think this wouldve come as a very considerable shock to Mr B given that 
he thought the matter had been resolved some months prior. 
Putting things right
For all these reasons, while I acknowledge the points Be Wiser has made, I consider the 
investigators award of £200 for the trouble and upset Mr B experienced to be fair and 
reasonable. I understand Mr B has confirmed that he is happy to keep the £10 voucher and 
received the remainder as a cash payment. Ill leave that to the parties to decide.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd must pay 
£200 to Mr B within 28 days of when we tell it he accepts this decision. If Mr B intends to 
keep the £10 voucher he has already been paid, then Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd need 
only pay Mr B the remaining £190. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman