DRN-3997913
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under sections 75 and 140 and of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system including a voltage optimiser (the system). 
What happened
In March 2018, Mrs K bought the system from a supplier (which Ill call P) using a fixed 
sum loan agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited, which was repayable over ten years. 
In May 2020, Mrs K engaged a claims management company (the CMC), which sent 
Shawbrook a letter of claim alleging that P had misrepresented the system as being self-
funding and breached its contract with Mrs K because the benefits promised to her have not 
been achieved. 
On 27 July 2021, Shawbrook responded to the claim to say that it did not accept the system 
had been misrepresented as self-funding, nor did it think there had been a breach of 
contract. However, Shawbrook acknowledged that the inflation figures used in the 
calculation of the estimated benefits did not match the underlying data referred to in Ps 
quote. So, Shawbrook offered some compensation in relation to this. 
On 6 April 2022, the CMC wrote to Shawbrook again with a revised claim, which said the 
system was misrepresented by P because:
There were misleading figures in the quote  specifically the putting it all together 
table, which had the following issues: 
oThe voltage optimiser savings were too high, which was not supported by 
industry reports that were available at the time.
oThe electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self-
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 75% self-
consumption rate that was used. 
oThe cost of credit was missing from the table, distorting the return on 
investment to make the system appear more attractive.
P had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by cases where inflation 
data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated.
Shawbrook did not respond to the revised claim. The CMC then referred a complaint to us 
about all of this on 16 May 2022. 
Our adjudicator considered the matter and said that we could not consider the allegations 
made in the original claim, since these had been responded to in Shawbrooks emailed letter 
dated 27 July 2021. Since this was a final response, under our rules Mrs K had six months 
from the date of the letter to refer the complaint to us. But the CMC did not refer this to us 
until 16 May 2022, and the delay was not caused by any exceptional circumstances. 
The CMC says it didnt receive the final response, but we can see it was emailed to the 
CMCs correct email address, so our adjudicator concluded it was most likely delivered). The 
CMC did not specifically dispute this finding, and I agree with the adjudicators conclusions 
on this point. So, I will not comment on the allegations made in the letter of claim from May 
2020. The CMC, however, will be aware that it has made similar complaints on behalf of 
other clients where P was the supplier and similar quotes were used, and those complaint 
have not been successful. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint in regards to the revised claim. The CMC says it 
does not accept this, but has not provided anything additional to be considered. 
So, this decision deals with the points made in the revised claim dated 6 April 2022. Since 
no final response was issued in relation to this claim, the complaint about this has been 
referred to us within the time limits I must apply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
The CMC has made the claim under sections 75 and 140 of the Act. So, I have considered 
these sections in particular, as well as other relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory 
rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. I have read all of the 
CMCs and Shawbrooks submissions and taken all of these into account when making my 
decision.
The quote 
Im satisfied that the quote was provided to Mrs K during the sales meeting. It was signed by 
her at that time and the CMC says this was presented to her during the meeting. So, I think 
the quote provides important evidence of what was likely discussed before Mrs K agreed to 
the purchase. 
The basic price and overall cost of the system
The basic (or cash) price of the system was set out clearly in the quote and the credit 
agreement as £9,434.25. However, the overall cost to Mrs K was more, due to her paying for 
the system using an interest-bearing loan.
The quote showed several repayment options, including one over 120 payments of £112.76 
per month. This was £1.47 per month more than the actual amount on the credit agreement. 
But I think Mrs K wouldve understood from the quote roughly how much the loan would cost 
per month. 
The credit agreement clearly sets out that the loan was repayable through 120 monthly 
payments of £111.29. It shows the total amount payable would be £13,454.80 including the 
£100.00 deposit. So, I think that the monthly and total overall cost that Mrs K would pay for 
the system was made clear to her when she agreed to buy it.
Allegation  the voltage optimizer saving contradicts reports available at the time of sale and 
was beyond the range of reasonableness
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were too high, given 
various reports that were available at the time. However, I understand that Ps method of calculating the savings was approved by an industry body, which is more qualified than I am 
to know if it was reasonable at that time. 
How P calculated the savings was also explained in the quote, with reference to a specific 
report that informed its method of calculation. The quote also included the following 
statement alongside the figures for electricity savings from the voltage optimiser:
Savings are dependent on individual circumstances and may be higher or lower than 
those stated above and are based on the manufacturers own figures.
I think there were a number of reports which found that voltage optimisers could provide 
various levels of benefit. Considering those reports, I think that Ps estimated voltage 
optimiser savings in this case are not outside of a reasonable range.
It appears to me that P estimated the benefit of the voltage optimiser based on what it knew 
about the product it was selling, Mrs Ks home and how she used electricity. I am not 
persuaded that Ps estimate of the benefit of the voltage optimiser was unreasonable. 
Allegation  The electricity savings were too high  they shouldve been based on a self-
consumption rate of 50% (the industry standard), rather than the 75% self-consumption rate 
that was used  
To calculate the savings from the solar panels, P used a self-consumption rate of 75%. Self-
consumption rate is the proportion of electricity generated by the solar panels that P 
assumed that Mrs K could use herself, rather than exporting it to the grid. My understanding 
is that P tailored the self-consumption rate based on what it knew about the customer and 
how she used electricity.
The CMC has argued that P shouldve used the industry standard self-consumption rate of 
50% when calculating the savings. But I dont think it was unreasonable for P to tailor the 
self-consumption rate based on the information available to it. And I have not seen sufficient 
evidence to persuade me that the self-consumption rate used by P was unreasonable in this 
instance. 
I understand Ps methods were checked by an industry body before P started using them, 
and no objection to Ps methods was raised at that time. So, I think that, for the time when 
the quote was prepared, I cant reasonably conclude that the self-consumption rate was 
unreasonable.
The electricity savings from the solar panels were based on reasonable assumptions about 
the amount of electricity generated by the system and the self-consumption rate. So, I dont 
think those savings estimates were a misrepresentation. That remains the case even if the 
savings have not in fact been as high as estimated. 
The savings will be dependent upon how electricity is used in the home and that is beyond 
Ps control. The quote also included the following clarification in the section about electricity 
bill savings  The amounts saved will depend on the amounts used. So, I dont think the 
estimated savings were presented as being guaranteed, nor do I think they were a 
contractual term.
Allegation - the cost of credit was missing from the putting it all together table, distorting the 
return on investment to make the system appear more attractive
The putting it all together table would have been clearer if the table had included the cost of 
credit. However, I must consider the sale as a whole, not just one table in one of the documents that was provided at the time of sale. Having done so, Im satisfied that Mrs K 
knew what she was paying for the system, including the cost of credit. This was shown on 
the credit agreement. So, she could compare this to the estimated benefits before deciding 
to buy the system.
In addition to this, the repayments table did incorporate the cost of credit into its illustration 
of the benefits of the system. It showed the annual benefit would not exceed the annual loan 
repayments during the loan term. 
The estimated performance table also showed it would be about 12 years before the 
overall benefits of the system exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement.
Allegation - the supplier had a predilection for unscrupulous behaviour illustrated by some 
other cases where inflation data had fraudulently or deliberately been manipulated
The CMC has pointed to 10% of cases it had seen against P where the inflation data used 
did not match the underlying inflation data it referred to. This does not strike me as a 
systemic issue which would lead me to think that P misled customers in every case. 
It appears likely to have been a result of human error rather than fraudulently or deliberately 
done to mislead. Some of those errors resulted in a lower inflation rate being used  thereby 
making the potential benefits of the system appear less than wouldve been the case if no 
error had occurred, which would make the system less attractive to customers, not more.
In this case it appears there was an error and the inflation figures used didnt match the 
underlying data the supplier referred to. But Shawbrook dealt with this in its final response 
and made an offer of settlement. So, given the complaint about that was referred to us out of 
time under our rules, I cannot comment on whether or not the offer was fair and reasonable. 
Overall, I think Ps method for calculating an assumed inflation rate was reasonable. And I 
dont think it was a breach of contract or misrepresentation just because actual inflation has 
not matched Ps assumption. And I dont think the error in the inflation rates quoted in this 
case meant that there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract which means I should 
uphold this complaint.
Summary
I have not seen evidence that persuades me that P sold the system in a way that was not 
fair or clear, or in a way that was misleading. I think the information provided to Mrs K before 
she agreed to the purchase showed the cost and expected benefits of the system based on 
reasonable assumptions. The expected benefits were set out over 25 years, with warnings 
that those benefits were not guaranteed. I think it is likely that this was discussed with Mrs K 
before she agreed to the purchase.
In summary, my findings are that:
There was no misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of P. As such, I 
dont think Shawbrook would have any liability under section 75 of the Act.
I think it is unlikely that a court would find that there was an unfair relationship 
between Shawbrook and Mrs K due to the way P sold the system to her.
I dont think Shawbrook ought to have upheld the claim, so it did not treat Mrs K 
unfairly by not doing so.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman