DRN-3532879
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy with how Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc, trading as M&S Bank,
managed the situation when she informed them that she was struggling to meet the
payments on her loan account because of the financial impact of Covid-19.
What happened
Mrs D has a personal loan with M&S. On 30 March 2020, Mrs D contacted M&S and
explained that because of the financial impact of the Covid-19 pandemic her household had
incurred a significant reduction in monthly income such that she would now struggle to meet
the monthly payments required by the loan.
M&S discussed this issue with Mrs D and agreed to place a 60-day hold on the account.
M&S explained to Mrs D that during this period interest and charges wouldnt be incurred on
the account and that there would be no obligation on Mrs D to make payments towards the
account, but that any payments Mrs D wasnt able to make would be considered as being
missed and as constituting arrears on the account and would be reported to the credit
reference agencies as such.
A few days later, on 2 April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published
temporary guidance regarding the provision of 3-month payment holidays to personal loan
holders who couldnt afford to meet the repayments due on their loan because of Covid-19.
These FCA mandated 3-month payments holidays included that consumers who benefited
from these holidays wouldnt incur adverse reporting on their credit files as a result.
Mrs D spoke with M&S again in July 2020, at which time her financial position and the
position of her loan account was reviewed and discussed. This resulted in Ms D agreeing to
resume making the contractual monthly payments on the loan as well as arranging a
repayment plan to clear the arrears that had grown on her account during the hold period.
In November 2020, Mrs D raised a complaint with M&S because she felt that M&S should
have provided assistance similar to the FCA prescribed payment holidays which would have
meant that she wouldnt have incurred adverse credit reporting on her credit file by M&S and
which Mrs D felt had had a significant impact on her financial position since that time.
M&S looked at Mrs Ds complaint. But they didnt feel that they acted unreasonably or 
unfairly towards Mrs D in how theyd managed Mrs Ds loan account, including regarding the 
form of financial assistance theyd provided Mrs D. Because of this, M&S didnt uphold Mrs 
Ds complaint.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with M&Ss response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Mrs D was effectively being
punished for contacting M&S a few days before the 3-month payment holidays were
announced by the FCA, which they didnt feel was fair. So, they recommended that M&S
remove all adverse reporting from Mrs Ds credit file and make a payment of £200 to Mrs D
to compensate her for any upset and inconvenience shed incurred.
M&S didnt agree with the recommendation put forwards by our investigator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 27 May 2022 as follows:
On 2 April 2020, the FCA announced temporary guidance regarding the provision of 
three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who were having difficulty 
meeting the payments due on their loan accounts because of financial difficulties 
brought about by the impact of Covid-19.
The FCA guidance included that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the 
reporting of these payment holidays to the credit reference agencies would be 
suspended, so that an eligible consumer who benefited from such a payment holiday 
didnt have their credit file impacted by doing so.
The FCA explained that the purpose of the guidance was to protect consumers who 
had been able to meet the repayments on their credit accounts without incident until 
that time, but who were at risk of incurring adverse reporting for missed or late 
payments on their credit files solely as a result of the impact of Covid-19.
In this instance, Mr D notified M&S that she would struggle to meet the payments 
required on the loan because of the impact of Covid-19 on 30 March, which was a 
few days before the FCA published its first guidance on 3-month payment holidays. 
Because of this, M&S maintain that the form of financial assistance that they did 
provide to Ms D was, and remains, appropriate and fair.
Im not convinced by M&Ss position here, and I feel that the spirit of the FCA 
guidance is clear and that it was put into place to prevent precisely the situation that 
Mrs D has experienced here  to prevent consumers such as Mrs D who hadnt 
struggled to meet the repayments on their loan accounts previously from incurring 
adverse reporting on their credit files as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Additionally, while the first guidance relating specifically to loans wasnt published by 
the FCA until 2 April 2020, similar guidance for other financial products was 
published by the FCA from mid-March onwards, and it was widely understood that 
the FCA were seeking to apply such protection to further categories of consumers, 
such as credit and loan account holders.
While I can appreciate that M&S themselves would have been under considerable
operational stress at that time, such that I wouldnt have expected them to have 
undertaken an immediate review of customers such as Mrs D that might potentially 
have been disadvantaged by the timing of their contact to M&S, I do feel when Mrs D 
contacted M&S again in July 2020 that M&S had the opportunity at that time to have 
put in place any corrective or retrospective action necessary to ensure that Mrs D 
didnt incur an unfair outcome.
And I do feel that Mrs D has incurred an unfair outcome here, given that had she 
been less proactive and contacted M&S a few days later that she would have 
benefited from a different form of financial assistance, which didnt involve the 
reporting of adverse information to her credit file. And I can confirm that Ill be provisionally upholding this complaint and instructing M&S to remove all adverse 
reporting for the period March 2020 to February 2021 from Mrs Ds credit file on that 
basis.
In their view of this complaint, our investigator also recommended that M&S should 
make a payment of £200 to Mrs D to compensate her for the inconvenience and 
upset that shes incurred here. In response, Mrs D highlighted the trouble that having 
this adverse information on her credit file has caused her, and included 
correspondence between her mortgage advisor and herself which confirmed that the 
adverse credit file reporting was having a significant effect on Ms Ds ability to obtain 
a favourable re-mortgage rate.
Given that I feel, as explained above, that M&S should have taken corrective 
retroactive steps to have ensured that Mrs D wasnt unfairly adversely affected by 
requesting financial assistance from M&S a few days too early, it follows that I also 
feel that by not taking such corrective action that M&S have contributed to the 
struggles that Mrs D experienced when trying to re-mortgage, and I dont feel that the 
£200 compensation amount suggested by our investigator takes sufficient account of 
this.
As such, my provisional decision will also include that M&S must make a higher
compensation payment of £500 to Mrs D, which I feel more fairly recompenses Mrs D 
for the trouble and inconvenience that shes experienced here.
Im aware that M&S feel that theyve followed the correct process, given that the FCA 
hadnt published information about the prescribed 3-month payment holidays for loan 
account holders at the time that Mrs D first contacted them. I can appreciate M&Ss 
position here, but it can be the case that an adherence to technically correct process 
can lead to an unfair outcome, and Im satisfied that this is whats happened in this 
instance.
As explained earlier in this letter, I feel that the spirit of the FCA guidance was clear, 
and I also feel that M&S have had numerous opportunities following the end of the 
60-day hold period to have realised that Mrs D had been unfairly disadvantaged by 
the timing of her initial contact with M&S and to have put matters right. And given that 
Mrs Ds re-mortgaging discussions didnt take place until the latter part of 2021  
significantly after Mrs D had raised her complaint about this matter with M&S  Im 
satisfied that M&S have had every opportunity to ensure that Mrs Ds credit file was 
returned to a fair position before that time, and that the £500 compensation amount 
Im provisionally instructing is warranted here.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs D and M&S the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. However, both Mrs D and M&S confirmed that they were happy to accept my 
provisional decision, and so I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this 
complaint in Mrs Ds favour on that basis. And I can confirm that I do uphold this complaint in 
Mrs Ds favour accordingly.
Putting things right
M&S must remove all adverse reporting for the period March 2020 to February 2021 from 
Mrs Ds credit file.
M&S must also make a payment of £500 to Mrs D to compensate her for the trouble this 
ongoing matter has caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Marks & Spencer Financial Services 
Plc, trading as M&S Bank, on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman