The complaint  
O, a limited company, complains that it was mis -sold a charge card and a credit card by  
Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard).  
What happened  
In June 2018 O opened a charge card account with Barclaycard with a limit of £20,000. O  
says it believed this was a credit card account, which could be repaid with a minimum  
payment each month. But it was actually a charge card which required the full outstanding  
balance to be repaid each month.  
O complained and Barclaycard agreed  to open a credit card account so that the balance  
could be moved to that new account and repaid with minimum monthly repayments as O  
said it had wanted. There were then various issues with how this account was set up and  
how the balance was transferred fr om the original charge card.  
O complained to Barclaycard that both cards had been mis -sold. Barclaycard looked into  
what had happened but did not agree the cards had been mis -sold, it did though pay O £700  
to compensate it for the poor service provided, agreed to merge the outstanding balances of  
the two accounts, and removed any adverse information regarding the two accounts from  
Os credit file for the period from when the accounts were opened until Barclaycard merged  
the debts.  
O remained un happy and referred its complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked into  
what had happened. They agreed with Barclaycard that the cards had not been mis -sold, but  
that some compensation was due for the way things had been handled and for the impacts  
of the mis -information O had been given. Ultimately, they recommended that Barclaycard  
pay O an additional £100 compensation, and refund some interest. Barclaycard didnt  
respond to the Investigators opinion, and O did not agree with the Investigators findi ngs, so  
this case has been referred to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so Ive reached the s ame conclusions as our Investigator, and for largely the  
same reasons. Ill explain why.  
O contacted Barclaycard to apply for a business card account in June 2018. O says it  
believed it was applying for a credit card, and that it would therefore only have  to pay a  
minimum payment each month to maintain the account. But the account O opened was  
actually a charge card, which required for the full balance of the card to be repaid each  
month.  DRN-3776078
 
I dont have copies of the phone calls that took place around the t ime this account was  
opened. But I do have copies of the notes Barclaycard took when it reviewed those calls  
when O made its initial complaint about the charge card account. And those notes suggest  
that O was told about the difference between charge cards and credit cards and chose to  
open a charge card account. In any case, O would have had to read and agree to the terms  
and conditions of the charge card account before it was opened, and those terms clearly set  
out the repayment schedule for the acco unt. 
 
So with what Ive seen Im satisfied that the charge card account was not mis -sold to O.  
However, its clear that following the opening of the charge card account O was given some  
inaccurate information about the payments it needed to make, there wer e also then some  
issues with how Barclaycard managed the transfer of the balance to a credit card.  
 
Barclaycards notes show that when O called in July 2018 about making a payment to the  
charge card it was told it could pay £100, and was not informed that the full balance of over  
£19,000 needed to be repaid. Its at this stage that O said it had wanted a credit card, not a  
charge card, and Barclaycard explained it could open a credit card for O. In August 2018  
Barclaycard then advised O that it could withdr aw cash from the new credit card and use  
that to repay the charge card. Barclaycard has noted that it did not clearly explain to O that  
doing this would result in additional interest charges for cash withdrawals on the credit card.  
 
O withdrew cash from it s credit card to repay the original balance of approximately £19,000,  
as it had been advised to do by Barclaycard, but then went on to spend a further £11,000 on  
the charge card before it was closed by Barclaycard on 7 September 2018. It appears that O  
was not aware that the charge card would close once the credit card had been opened.  
 
O has suggested that the credit card was also mis -sold and that it was actually a charge  
card account. But that was not the case. This second account was a credit card as O had 
requested, but was initially set up incorrectly and so the full balance was requested to be  
repaid rather than the minimum monthly payment O was expecting. Barclaycard  
subsequently rectified this and amended the credit card so that only minimum payment s 
were required each month. So there is nothing to suggest to me that this credit card was  
mis-sold to O.  
 
O made further complaints about what had gone on, and in September 2019, on reviewing  
all that had happened, Barclaycard agreed that it could have provided O with better service.  
As a result it offered to pay O £700 for any inconvenience caused by what had happened,  
merged all the debt from both accounts onto the one credit card account, and removed any  
adverse data that had been recorded about these accounts on Os credit file from June 2018  
to September 2019. Barclaycard also explained that it would be able to arrange a repayment  
plan for the outstanding debt, and told O that its debt collections department would be in  
touch.  
 
Looking at every thing that happened over this period I agree with our Investigator that what  
Barclaycard has so far done is not quite enough to rectify the mistakes that were made.  
Barclaycard has agreed that it did not make it clear to O that withdrawing cash from the  
credit card to repay the charge card would lead to additional interest charges. I think its  
likely that, if Barclaycard had explained this, then O would have looked for another way to  
repay the charge card. I also note that in 2019 Barclaycard was able to t ransfer the further 
balance that had built up from the charge card to the credit card without requiring any cash  
withdrawals by O. In light of this I consider it is fair to ask Barclaycard to refund to O the  
interest and charges it incurred on its credit c ard as a result of the cash withdrawal in  
September 2018. I also think its fair for Barclaycard to pay an additional £100 to O for the  
inconvenience caused by all of this.   
Our investigator also recommended that Barclaycard refund any interest incurred fr om when  
it gave O the incorrect advice about making only a minimum repayment to the charge card  
until the correct advice was given. But looking at the statements for the charge card and the  
credit card no interest has been applied other than the interest o n the cash withdrawal,  
which I have already commented on.  
 
It appears that Barclaycard didnt make any further contact with O after October 2019, until  
O raised its complaint again in 2021 at which point Barclaycard advised that O should fill in  
details of its income and expenditure and a repayment plan could then be agreed. O feels  
that it is unfair that information about the remaining credit card account has been recorded  
with the credit reference agencies for this period. O considers it would b e fair for Barclaycard  
to either offer it a credit card with a much higher limit so it can repay the outstanding debt  
over a period of time, or write off the debt completely. O has said it was told in October 2019  
that everything was sorted and it didnt n eed to do anything more.  
 
I appreciate that Barclaycard did not make contact with O to discuss a repayment plan after  
October 2019, but Barclaycard had told O that a plan would need to be arranged, and O was  
aware that a debt was still outstanding. But O d idnt take any action to chase up with  
Barclaycard or to make any payments towards the debt. And with this in mind I think it is  
reasonable that data about the outstanding debt be recorded with the credit reference  
agencies.  
 
I also dont think it would be  reasonable to ask Barclaycard to write off the debt, the majority  
of what is owed is spending that O did using its cards. So O has clearly had the benefit of  
those funds and it is therefore fair that O should be asked to repay that debt. Barclaycard  
has s aid it is willing to work with O to come to an agreement about an affordable repayment  
plan, and I consider that to be a fair proposal for a way forward regarding this debt.  
I know this will be disappointing for O, but having carefully considered everythin g available to  
me, I think Barclaycard will have fairly resolved this complaint when it has carried out the  
actions detailed below, and I wont be requiring it to do anything more.  
 
Putting things right  
 
Barclaycard should put things right by:  
 
- Refunding interest and charges incurred as a result of the cash withdrawal on the  
credit card in September 2018  
- Paying O £100  
 
My final decision  
 
I uphold this complaint in part, Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) should put things  
right in the way  Ive set out above.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or  
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.  
 
Sophie Mitchell  
Ombudsman  