DRN-3577373
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about the fund value of his pension transfer plan taken out with Aviva Life 
and Pensions UK Limited. When the transfer of his occupational pension scheme (OPS) 
benefits were reviewed in 2000, he was told the comparison of his pension transfer plan 
against the potential OPS benefits, showed he had not suffered a loss, and there was no 
cause for concern. 
He is concerned his pension transfer plan wont be able to provide the benefits that would 
have been available from his former employers OPS; and he thinks an additional bonus 
should be paid to compensate him for the shortfall. 
What happened
The pension transfer Mr S complains about happened in 1988. As part of the industrywide 
pension review set up by the Securities and Investment Board, the transfer of Mr S OPS 
was reviewed in 2000. The review concluded that he hadnt suffered a loss as a result of the 
transfer.
Mr S complained to Aviva in 2021. Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
 
Its records showed that the pension transfer plan had been taken out on a non-
advised basis and had been included as part of a review. 
Its records showed that Mr S had responded to the review invitation and provided a 
pension questionnaire. Mr S pension was included in the pension review which was 
undertaken in line with the regulators guidance at that time. 
It carried out a loss assessment and established the transfer hadnt resulted in a 
financial loss as at the date of the calculation. 
As the pension had been reviewed in line with the regulators guidelines, it didnt 
consider there was any requirement for it to consider the matter further. 
The complaint was referred to our service. Mr S concerns were looked into by one of our 
investigators. But they didnt uphold the complaint. In summary:
They explained that the pension review had been designed to be a one-off process. 
While there may now be a loss with Mr S fund compared to what he would be 
receiving if he had stayed with his OPS, our service would not ask a business to 
complete a new review nor provide any compensation.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators assessment. In summary he said:
He didnt agree that the fact a review had been done, the results of which proved to 
be inaccurate due to incorrect assumptions of which he had no part; should not 
provide a shield for Aviva to hide behind. 
He asked for parity and asked for a pension pot large enough to deliver the final 
salary pension he would otherwise now be in receipt of. 
He thought it was unethical of Aviva to have paid dividends whilst not having paid 
into his pension policy. 
He didnt think Aviva had indicated they would fail to meet the expected payment 
from the original pension. 
He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
The investigator responded to Mr S. He explained: 
Aviva used assumptions set by the regulator. 
It might be there was now a loss with his fund compared to what he would be 
receiving if he had stayed with his OPS. But the investigator couldnt ask Aviva to 
redo the calculations, nor provide him with any compensation or bonus on his policy.
The value noted on the pension review outcome letter in 2000 wasnt a baseline nor 
a target for Aviva to meet with his pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In assessing Mr S complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key issues that are 
most relevant to his complaint. As a result, I wont necessarily have addressed every point 
Mr S has made. But I want to assure Mr S that I have thought very carefully about everything 
he has told us. 
Avivas review and loss assessment of Mr S pension transfer, was carried out as part of the 
industry wide pension review. It established Mr S hadnt suffered a loss as a result of moving 
his OPS benefits into a pension transfer plan. 
The pension review was intended to be a one-off exercise. It was instigated because of 
concerns about widespread pension mis-selling.  Its aim, where mis-selling was identified, 
was to put customers as far as possible, back in the position they would have been in, if they 
hadnt received unsuitable advice. 
The regulator at the time the review was set up, set out a methodology for businesses to use 
to assess whether individuals had suffered a financial loss, and to calculate appropriate 
compensation. A number of assumptions were used in the methodology, taking into account 
what the regulator at that time thought were fair, to be able to calculate appropriate 
compensation. These included assumptions about the expected investment returns to 
provide benefits at retirement. 
However, over time since the review was carried out, economic conditions such as falling 
annuity rates and reduced investment returns, have resulted in the assumptions that were 
used not being reached in a number of cases. And that has resulted in the pensions that 
consumers were transferred to, not providing the benefits that they were intended to do.
As Ive said above, the review was intended to be a one-off exercise. And although 
assumptions in relation investment growth and annuity rates havent been met in many 
cases, that isnt necessarily a reason for a review to be carried out afresh. 
The purpose of the pension review was to draw a line in respect of this particular issue of 
pension mis-selling. It was intended to provide some finality for customers and businesses. 
Customers would know that their concerns had been investigated and where mis-selling or a 
loss had been identified, compensation would be paid. And businesses would know that having investigated a case, it wouldnt have any liability in the future to review a particular 
case again in the future. 
Ive not seen any evidence in this case which indicates Aviva didnt carry out the review in 
accordance with the guidelines set out by the regulator at time the review was carried out. 
And as Ive explained, the fact that the assumptions set by the regulator and applied by 
Aviva in its loss assessment havent been met; doesnt in itself mean that a fresh review or 
loss assessment should be carried out now. 
In the particular circumstances of Mr S case, I havent seen anything that persuades me 
Aviva should carry out a fresh calculation.  From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the 
transfer was reviewed in line with the regulators guidance and requirements at the time. So, 
Im not going to uphold the complaint.
I do understand that Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons Ive 
explained I cant direct Aviva to carry out a fresh review of his pension transfer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr S complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman