DRN-3844719
The complaint
Mr K says AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt pay him enough when he made a claim after his car 
was written-off. He says it also provided poor service in general.  
What happened
Mr Ks car was damaged by an unknown driver whilst it was parked and unattended. When 
the car was written off, Mr K didnt accept the initial or the increased sum AXAs salvage 
agent offered him for it.  AXAs engineers reviewed the settlement offer and said there was 
no reason to raise it. Mr K didnt think that was fair. He also thought AXA hadnt done 
enough to establish who the other driver was. And he thought it had misled him about getting 
uninsured sums (such as the policy excess) back. He didnt think he should have been 
charged an extra £42 premium when he made the claim either. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ks complaint. He thought AXA had offered him a fair 
market value sum for his car. He said the £42 was charged when AXA realised it had the 
wrong occupation recorded for Mr K. He thought AXA had made reasonable attempts to 
obtain CCTV evidence and had tried to identify the insurer of the car that collided with Mr Ks 
vehicle. He didnt think Mr K was misled by AXA about uninsured losses. In the investigators 
opinion, AXA closed the claim appropriately when it had to abandon its attempt at recovering 
its outlay from another party. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators opinion. He made a substantial number of comments 
about it, which the investigator addressed. As Mr K still wasnt persuaded that AXA had 
acted reasonably, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The valuation
Mr Ks policy says the most AXA will pay should the car be written-off is its market value. We 
think the best way to establish a vehicles market value is to use the figures published in the 
national trade guides. The guides base their figures on extensive national research into likely 
selling prices. As the research is ongoing, the guides remain current, and I think its fair to 
say that market trends are reflected in them. AXAs salvage agent followed our approach in 
offering Mr K the improved sum for his car (£3,754) by using the guides. 
In general, we dont think advertised prices are persuasive, as theyre usually inflated to 
allow for negotiation. But if a consumer provides adverts, we consider them. I can see from 
AXAs file that the salvage agent looked at the adverts Mr K provided but didnt find them 
persuasive. Two cars were priced at around £3,700, but the higher-priced cars had much 
lower mileage and one was newer than Mr Ks car. The agent found other adverts, ranging 
from £3,100 to £4,200 (an average of £3,782.50 - so in line with the trade guide figures). 
When Mr K complained about the settlement sum, AXA checked the guides and adverts but 
didnt see a reason to increase it.  Our investigator checked that the figures relied on by AXA 
and its agent were correct  and I also checked them. 
Mr Ks car has features such as an electronic sunroof, leather interior and satellite navigation 
that other cars of the same make, model and age dont usually have, so I understand why he 
thinks its worth more than he got for it. Unfortunately, extra features on second-hand cars 
dont always make a difference to their value (especially on cars over seven years old) as 
their value depreciates. Recently, we got a bespoke valuation for Mr Ks car of £3,750. As it 
took into account the uncommon features on it, I dont think AXAs valuation was wrong. 
AXAs investigation and the outcome of the claim  
    
I think AXA made reasonable attempts to get hold of any CCTV evidence that might be 
available. It contacted the council within the period for which footage is retained by it, but the 
council said there was no footage. AXA tried again when Mr K told it there was another 
camera that should have footage of the incident. The council didnt respond. Although I take 
Mr Ks point that AXA could have chased a response, Im not sure what the value of the 
footage would have been anyway. I dont think it would have affected the claims outcome.
AXA had already accepted that Mr Ks car was damaged whilst parked and that another car 
had collided with it. I think its unlikely that the driver could have been identified from the 
footage, even if he or she could be seen clearly (which is often a problem with CCTV 
images). And AXA  already had the cars registration plate number. It used that to try to find 
the cars insurer  but no insurer for the car was showing on database records. In the 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable for AXA to decide it had no option but to abandon 
its attempt to recover its outlay from elsewhere and stand the loss it incurred on the claim. 
   
AXA recorded the outcome of the claim correctly on the claims and underwriting exchange 
database (CUE). It shows the sum paid out by AXA and the fact that Mr Ks no claims 
discount was allowed. Unfortunately, any claim made on a policy - regardless of fault  is 
likely to lead to increased premiums for a consumer when taking out future policies. I 
understand why Mr K isnt happy about that, as he had nothing to do with the accident. But I 
dont think AXA did anything wrong in completing the CUE record as it did.
Uninsured losses 
 
In my opinion, AXA didnt mislead Mr K in terms of getting his policy excess back - or in 
saying that he may be able to recover the £50 petrol he put in the car the day before the 
incident. Neither of these items is covered by the policy, so theyre uninsured losses. But 
such losses can be claimed back from the party responsible for an accident. Its very 
unfortunate that in this case the driver couldnt be identified, and the other car wasnt 
insured. So there was no-one for AXA or Mr K to claim their outlay and losses from. As a 
result of that,  Mr K was left out of pocket - and AXA lost out financially too. But I dont think 
AXA did anything wrong in relation to this issue. 
Extra premium
Mr K says AXA should have said what the full premium was going to be at the outset. But at 
that point it based the premium partly on Mr Ks stated occupation. When it found out that his 
occupation was different, that generated a small extra premium. So I think it was reasonable 
for AXA to make the extra £42 charge. In summary
I understand why Mr K is unhappy about the claim, but in my opinion the major problem was 
that the other driver couldnt be identified, and the other car wasnt insured. AXA had to deal 
with the situation regardless and I think it acted reasonably in doing so. In particular I think it 
valued Mr Ks car correctly, in line with our approach. It then paid him its market value, in line 
with the policys terms and conditions. I sympathise with Mr K, who has lost out as the result 
of a hit and run incident. But I dont think theres evidence that AXA acted unreasonably in 
relation to any of the issues Mr K has complained about. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman