DRN-3809179
The complaint
Mr G complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) and their decision to 
decline the claim he made on his Buildings Insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G held a Buildings Insurance policy that was underwritten by RSA. In August 2022, Mr G 
called RSA to make a claim on this policy, after the canopy at the front of his house had 
fallen down. Mr G explained the canopy was joined to his neighbours property, and that it 
had been coming away on his neighbours side for several months before coming down 
completely.
RSA assessed the claim and declined it. Mr G has explained RSA initially declined the claim 
stating it wasnt part of the building and so, wasnt covered under the policy. Mr G didnt think 
this determination was fair, so he raised a complaint about it.
RSA responded to the complaint and didnt agree. They thought their decision to decline the 
claim was fair, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mr G held. They 
explained the damage to the canopy hadnt resulted from an insurable event detailed within 
the policy. And they explained Mr G didnt hold the optional extra of Accidental Damage 
cover. So, they didnt think they had done anything wrong on this occasion. Mr G remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They were satisfied the 
damage to the canopy hadnt occurred from an insured event listed within the policy Mr G 
held. And as Mr G didnt hold the optional Accidental Damage cover, our investigator thought 
RSA had acted fairly when deciding to decline the claim. Because of this, they didnt think 
RSA needed to do anything more.
Mr G didnt agree. He didnt think the situation should be classed as an accident, as the 
canopy had been pulling away from his neighbours property for a period of time and hed 
made the neighbour aware of it. And he also thought RSA had altered the reason for the 
decline, explaining that initially RSA had told him the canopy wouldnt be covered as it was 
outside. Mr G maintained his belief that the damage should be covered by the policy he held 
and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr G. I dont dispute Mr Gs 
testimony that the damage to his canopy began, and resulted from, an issue that presented 
itself on his neighbours side. And I dont doubt that Mr G made efforts to ensure his 
neighbour rectified the issue and wasnt able to control his neighbours decision not to do so. 
I can also appreciate that Mr G took the insurance policy with RSA to help protect him 
financially in a situation where his building required repair work. And as the canopy was 
attached to Mr Gs building, I can understand why Mr G feels his claim shouldve been 
accepted and that RSA acted unfairly by declining it instead. 
But for me to say RSA should do something differently and accept Mr Gs claim, I first need 
to be satisfied RSA have done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that by 
declining the claim, RSA failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy Mr G held. 
Or, if I think they did act within these, that RSA acted unfairly when doing so. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr G held, and Ive considered these at 
length. The policy lists the possible causes of damage it will cover, which include but is not 
limited to events such as fire damage, storm damage or water escaping. Each of these 
causes is known as an insurable event. So, for Mr Gs claim to be covered by the policy, he 
would first need to show the damage caused to the canopy resulted from one of these 
insurable events.
Mr G has explained the canopy began to fall away from his neighbours property some six 
months earlier, and the issue had been getting worse over time, until its eventual collapse. I 
dont think this situation falls under any of the causes of damage listed within the policy and 
so, I dont think this situation was an insurable event. Because of this, I think RSA were fair 
to decide the claim wasnt covered under the Buildings Cover section of the policy, and that 
they acted in line with this policy when doing so.
And Ive seen from Mr Gs policy schedule that he didnt take the optional Accidental 
Damage cover alongside the Buildings Cover. So, as Mr G didnt have this Accidental 
Damage policy, I dont think itd be fair for me to expect RSA to accept the claim under this 
cover.
So, as the damage to Mr Gs canopy wasnt caused by an insurable event listed within the 
Buildings Cover, and he didnt have Accidental Damage cover alongside this, I think RSA 
acted within the terms of the policy Mr G held when declining the claim. And I think they 
acted fairly when doing so.
I understand Mr G is unlikely to agree with this. And I appreciate RSA may have provided a 
different reason as to why the claim was declined initially, and the confusion this would 
cause. But I dont think this means RSA were unfair to decline the claim, based on the 
reason theyve provided in the response to Mr Gs complaint and their reply to our service.
 I appreciate the damage his canopy sustained was incurred through no fault of his own. So, 
I understand why he thinks its unfair that hes left to bear the costs of the repair work. But 
RSA arent responsible for Mr Gs neighbours actions, or the neighbours decision not to 
repair the canopy before its total collapse.
I note Mr G has provided detailed comments as to why he believes the damage isnt 
accidental. And I dont dispute his reasoning, or why he thinks this. But as Mr G doesnt think 
the damage was accidental, then the only way RSA could accept the claim was through the 
Buildings Cover he had. And as Ive explained, the cause of the damage doesnt meet the 
criteria of the insurable events the policy provides cover for. So, while I do understand the 
impact this has had on Mr G, I dont think this impact has resulted because of something RSA have done wrong. And so, I dont think they need to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman