DRN-1697590
 
The complaint
Mr R has complained Santander UK plc won't refund him for three transactions which he 
didn't authorise.
What happened
Mr R was on holiday with family and friends.  One night he went to a bar.  He was there until 
the early hours of the morning but wasn't alone. He bought drinks but didn't think anything 
out of the usual. In the morning he called Santander as he'd got an alert about them having 
blocked his debit card.
He was told about three payments that had been authorised on his account.  These were for 
£329.16 as well as two payments of £635.47. He told Santander he still had his debit card 
with him.  Whilst he could remember using his card and PIN, he'd never have agreed to 
authorise payments for such a high amount.
Santander felt as Mr R had admitted using his card and PIN, he'd more than likely 
authorised these transactions.  They had no basis to refund him.
Mr R was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator considered the evidence from both Mr R and Santander. Overall he felt it 
was most likely Mr R had authorised the transactions, even if he'd been unaware of exactly 
how much he was being asked to pay. He also could see Santander had blocked 
subsequent transactions as potential fraud so didn't think it was fair to say they'd done 
nothing to monitor what was going on.
Mr R remained unhappy with this outcome.  He was now in a great deal of financial difficulty 
because of these transactions and had had to borrow money from family. He'd also seen 
reports of the bar he'd been in and knew that other customers had reported serious scams. 
He now couldn't recall exactly what had gone on and wondered whether he may have been 
drugged.
He's asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator.  I'll explain why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply but not generally in a case like Mr R's which has any impact on the 
decision I'm making here. So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting 
someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the 
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Santander and Mr R have told us. Ive also noted what Mr R has said about another 
bank of his immediately blocking transactions in the bar and preventing him from being a 
victim of fraud.
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were made 
were covered in our investigators view of 20 March 2020. I dont intend to repeat everything 
that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis of my 
decision. I can reassure Mr R and Santander Ive read the file thoroughly. 
The following summarises what Ive considered:
Theres no dispute Mr R was abroad in a bar on 1-2 February. There are however no 
lower-value transactions for drinks as I'd expect to see.
I dont doubt Mr R now believes he was drugged, as that's the only explanation he 
can think of to explain how the transactions may have taken place.
He did say when he first came to us - and when he contacted Santander - that he 
recalled being in the bar and entered the PIN himself.
Mr R's card remained in his possession throughout the evening.
There are some small inconsistencies between the stories Mr R has told us. Thats 
not whats driven my decision here.
By using his card and PIN, regardless of the amount on the terminal or even whether 
Mr R  didnt notice what it said, Mr R was consenting to the transactions.
This remains the case where the bar may have over-inflated the cost of drinks or tried 
to mislead him about what he was paying.
Our service is aware of bars which have been subject to a number of very similar 
complaints: threatening behaviour, over-charging, or misleading customers about 
what they were paying. Ive taken this into account.
 
Mr R has told us himself that its possible he did enter his PIN whenever the terminal was 
presented to him so I dont think its a stretch to say  under the law  he consented to the 
transactions. Because of this, Santander had an obligation to follow Mr Rs instruction. But 
there are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the 
circumstances of these payments.
But in fact its clear that Santander did what Id have expected here. After the first two large-
value out of character transactions were made, they blocked the third and all subsequent 
payments.  They also texted an alert to Mr R.  I believe they did take action to monitor Mr R's 
account and identify any unusual behaviour.
On balance, I believe Mr R authorised these payments  potentially whilst being completely 
unaware of the amounts. Therefore, theres no basis for me to ask Santander to refund him. 
I know this must seem very unfair to Mr R and I'm sorry about the impact this has all had on 
him.
My final decisionFor the reasons I've given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr R's complaint against 
Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman