DRN-3497790
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited, trading as Lloyds Bank Direct 
Investments (Lloyds), didnt provide her with enough information about two of her holdings 
which were delisted. She says she would have sold her holdings if shed been given the 
information she needed.
What happened
Mrs Y has an execution only share dealing account with Lloyds. She had two share holdings 
which I will refer to as R and M. 
In brief summary, R shares were delisted from the London Stock Exchange in or around 
2016. Trading in R shares continued under a matched bargain facility, but Mrs Y couldnt 
use this facility whilst her shares remained in Lloyds nominee name. R shares were 
consolidated in 2017 and the new shares were credited to Mrs Ys share dealing account.
In or around 2018, M announced a proposed de-listing from the Alternative Investment 
Market and a voluntary liquidation. The proposed cancellation wasnt approved by 
shareholders. Listing was suspended and cancelled in or around June 2019. Mrs Y thinks 
shes due some money, but she says Lloyds hasnt provided her with any information.
She says Lloyds has failed to provide her with information pre and post de-listing and shes 
not been able to exercise her voting rights. Shes tried to find out through the registrars and 
administrators whether shes due any money, but Lloyds hasnt paid her anything.
She wants Lloyds to pay her the value of the shares before their listings were cancelled  
around £16,500. And to refund its administration fees for the last five years.
Lloyds said it had communicated everything about R and M shares that it received from the 
companies and that, as an execution only broker, it wasnt obliged to do anything more. It 
said Mrs Y hadnt registered to receive shareholder voting and perks notifications. It said it 
would contact her with any further updates from the companies.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that 
Lloyds had given Mrs Y information about the delisting proposals and relevant dates and 
directed her to where she could find out more information. And that, as an execution only 
broker, it wasnt required to do anything more.
Mrs Y didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
She didnt receive any email alerts and there was no online warning that she had unread 
notifications.
She didnt have the opportunity to take part in the match bargain arrangement for R 
shares. She only became aware of this in December 2016 when it was too late.
Lloyds didnt tell her how to withdraw or transfer her shares and she wasnt provided with 
contact details to obtain more help.
She didnt receive the information about M shares being delisted until it was too late to 
sell her shares.
Lloyds couldnt give her her share certificate numbers so she couldnt sell through the 
registrar.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and in my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going 
to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Having considered everything, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Mrs Y has an execution only share dealing account. Lloyds was not able to give Mrs Y any 
advice about her shareholdings. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds provided Mrs Y with appropriate warnings  through its terms and 
conditions and its website  that the value of her investments would change over time and 
that she might not get back the full amount that she invested.
It was Mrs Ys decision to invest in R and M shares and to decide when, and if she wanted, 
to sell them.
Lloyds was obliged to provide Mrs Y with enough information for her to decide what was 
appropriate for her. This included information about any changes in the shares, such as 
corporate actions and, in this case, de-listing and liquidation of shares. Im satisfied that it 
provided her with this information  its records show it sent her emails providing her with the 
information it had received from the companies within a reasonable timescale.
Im also satisfied that Mrs Ys online account included a notifications history and the number 
of any unread notifications.
It is unfortunate that R shares were delisted. But Im satisfied Mrs Ys share dealing account 
was credited with her new R share entitlement, following a consolidation, in or around May 
2017.
It is unfortunate that M shares were delisted and went into liquidation. But Im satisfied 
Mrs Ys share dealing account was credited with a liquidation payment in or around 
December 2020. And Lloyds told her it would notify her of any further distributions from the 
administrators.
I find Lloyds told Mrs Y about Rs matched bargain facility in its email dated 18 April 2016. 
And that it explained she wouldnt be able to use this facility while her shares remained in its nominee name. I think it was reasonably clear that Mrs Y would need to give instructions to 
transfer her shares to a different provider, or into her name, if she wanted to make use of the 
matched bargain facility. And, whilst there may not have been specific contact details within 
the email, I think it would have been easy enough for Mrs Y to contact Lloyds by email or 
phone to get more information about withdrawing her shares if shed wanted to do so.
Mrs Y says she wasnt told about the delisting of M shares until it had happened. But Im 
satisfied that Lloyds emailed her on 17 August 2018 about the proposed cancellation and 
that the last day of trading was expected to be on 13 September 2018. So I find she was told 
before the delisting was expected to take place.
Mrs Y says she wasnt able to exercise her voting rights. Lloyds terms and conditions set 
out that it can arrange for its consumers to vote by proxy (by telling us how you want the 
votes to be exercised by the nominee company) (12.1) but that it can only arrange this if the 
consumer asks it to. This term appears on page 19 of a 38-page document, so I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Mrs Y to have noticed this when she signed the agreement. But I would 
have reasonably expected her to ask Lloyds about it before she signed the agreement if it 
was of particular importance to her. Theres no evidence that she asked Lloyds how she 
could arrange to exercise her voting rights. And I dont find there was any obligation on 
Lloyds to proactively seek her instructions.
Im not unsympathetic to the position in which Mrs Y finds herself - her investment in R 
shares and M shares has led to a financial loss. But it was Mrs Ys decision to buy the 
shares and Lloyds is not responsible for the loss that she suffered. Overall, I find Lloyds has 
treated her fairly and reasonably by providing the information it received from the companies 
within a reasonable timescale.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman