DRN-2919421
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC wont refund her after she lost money to a purchase 
scam.  
Background
In June 2019, Miss C was looking to purchase flights to Ghana. A family friend had recently 
used a company to book flights and recommended them to Miss C and her friend. Miss Cs 
friend contacted the company and was provided with an offer only valid for that day, which 
she booked. Miss C was told about the deal by her friend  her friend also said the company 
website looked legitimate and was ABTA and ATOL protected. On this recommendation, and 
looking to benefit from the same deal, Miss C contacted the company. Unbeknownst to Miss 
C, the company in question was actually a scammer.
Miss C was told that she could buy flight tickets for £540 and pay in monthly instalments. 
She was told that she would need to pay a £100 deposit by 17:00 that day in order to receive 
this price and was provided with an invoice, detailing the flights Miss C wanted. As this price 
was around £60 less than Miss C had seen elsewhere, she decided to go ahead. Miss C has 
said she felt rushed to make the purchase, as there wasnt much time left, and sent across 
the £100 deposit at 16:46 via mobile banking.
The following month Miss C made a second payment of £100, as agreed, to the scammer, 
but this payment bounced back without Miss C realising. It was only when contacted by the 
scammer in August 2019, chasing payment did Miss C check her account and identify the 
payment had been returned. The scammer told Miss C that this was because shed sent her 
payment to their deposit account rather than the account for further payments and provided 
Miss C with new details. Miss C sent £300 via internet banking to cover her missed and 
upcoming payments.
In October 2019, Miss Cs family friend raised concerns about the flight company as they 
hadnt yet received tickets for their upcoming flights. Miss C contacted the scammer to 
attempt to find out her booking reference, but the advisor wouldnt provide her with one. 
Concerned by this, Miss C also reviewed the address provided for the company and couldnt 
locate an office premises. At this point, Miss C realised she may have been the victim of a 
scam and contacted Metro Bank to raise a claim.  
Metro Bank is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Metro Bank says one or 
more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Metro Bank has said Miss C made the payments without having a reasonable basis for 
believing they were genuine payments. Metro Bank considers that Miss C ought to have 
completed more checks on the company, rather than relying on a recommendation, and 
didnt consider the invoice Miss C received looked genuine.
Metro Bank has also said Miss C ignored an effective warning it provided when she made 
the £300 payment to the fraudster. Metro Bank hasnt specified what warning Miss C saw, 
despite our investigator asking for clarification in order to consider this. Metro Bank has 
instead provided all warnings in use online at the time, depending on the reason its 
customers gave for making the payment. Miss C recalls choosing paying for a service, and 
so in the absence of any evidence to the contrary, I think its more likely than not Miss C saw 
the following warning:
Could this be a scam?
If youre paying for a service, even from someone youve used before, double check the 
payment information has come from them and not a fraudster. One way to do this is to 
contact them in a different way than they contacted you. For example, if they email you, give 
them a call back instead of replying online. We also recommend keeping an eye on their 
phone numbers and email addresses to make sure theyre always the same.
Do not make this payment unless you know your money is going to the right place. Call us 
with any questions, making sure to always use this number: 0345 08 08 500.
However Metro Bank did recognise it hadnt met the standards it was required to under the 
CRM Code for the initial £100 payment. It said it could have provided a more effective 
warning to Miss C that this payment she was making could be part of a scam. Metro Bank 
therefore refunded 50% of Miss Cs loss for the £100 payment, as per the provisions of the 
CRM Code. When considering Miss Cs complaint, Metro Bank also paid a further £30 for 
customer service issues and transferring Miss C to the wrong department on several 
occasions.
Miss C feels she should be refunded in full and so has referred her complaint to us. An 
investigator looked into Miss Cs complaint and thought that she did have a reasonable basis 
for believing these were legitimate payments. He also didnt consider the warnings Metro 
Bank had relied on were effective under the Code. As Metro Bank disagreed with the 
investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Metro Bank should have refunded the money 
Miss C lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances bank should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss C 
lost.
The money was taken from Miss Cs current account. It is not clear how Miss C 
would have used the money if Metro Bank had refunded it when it should have done, 
so Metro Bank should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% 
simple per year from the date Metro Bank decided not to refund Miss C under the 
CRM Code to the date of payment.
I have carefully considered Metro Banks representations about the warning it gave and 
whether Miss C had a reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that 
Miss C failed to take the requisite level of care required for Metro Bank to choose not to 
reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective warning exception were not 
met because:
Having considered the payment for a service warning, Metro Banks advice is to 
contact the service provider in more than one way, which Miss C had already done  
being in contact both by phone and email with the fraudster.
The warning appears to be focused on identifying scams whereby fraudsters 
impersonate legitimate companies, creating false email addresses or phone lines to 
trick customers, which is not what happened in Miss Cs case  so I dont think the 
warning would have resonated with Miss Cs particular circumstances.
The warning fails to set out the risks of not following the advice provided (such as 
losing your money), which is a requirement under the CRM Code for a warning to be 
considered effective.
Even if I consider the other warnings provided by Metro Bank (which, for the reasons 
explained I think are unlikely Miss C saw), I still dont think any of them are effective 
in the circumstances of Miss Cs complaint  only one warning suggests completing 
research before buying from a company you dont know  but again it fails to set out 
the risks of not doing so. I also dont think the examples given for what to research 
(customer reviews, average price comparison) wouldve made a difference in Miss 
Cs case had she followed the advice. Shes advised that the website included 
positive reviews and the price was similar to other legitimate retailers. Miss C has 
provided detailed recollections of what prices she was seeing for tickets elsewhere at 
the time of searching, including what price the airline she believed she was flying with 
was charging. Based on these recollections, Im persuaded by what Miss C has told 
us and I dont think warnings regarding unrealistic prices wouldve resonated with 
Miss C in her particular circumstances.
Im also satisfied that Metro Bank has not shown that Miss C lacked a reasonable basis of 
belief because:
Miss C had been recommended this company by a family friend and another of her 
friends used the company before she made a payment. While they may not have 
received any tickets before Miss C made a payment, I think having friends that had 
already made purchases would reassure an individual that a company was genuine, 
and that not all of you had fallen victim to the same scam.
Its not clear from Miss Cs submissions whether she reviewed the scammers 
website before making a payment, or only when raising a claim, but Miss C has 
confirmed her friend had reviewed the site and advised Miss C that the company was 
ABTA and ATOL protected. Metro Bank has suggested Miss C shouldve conducted 
her own research, but I dont think its unreasonable for an individual to rely on the 
word of their friend  especially when that friend is also making the same purchase 
and had seemingly done so successfully. In any event, even if Miss C had reviewed 
the site, I think it would only have reassured her of the companys legitimacy  having 
listened to calls Miss C had with Metro Bank when raising the fraud claim the advisor 
confirms the website looks really legitimate and appears to question whether Miss C 
has definitely been scammed. He also confirms that the site is the first thing that 
comes up when typing the company name into a search engine.Metro Bank has raised concerns over the legitimacy of the emails Miss C received 
from the scammer, highlighting inaccuracies such as not including the year of travel 
and not providing a flight reference. I agree the emails contain inaccuracies and 
errors   but I also have to bear in mind that even legitimate companies, particularly 
smaller businesses with less advanced technologies available, may provide invoices 
where font sizes vary, or where there are some inaccuracies in the information 
provided. I dont think the inaccuracies and errors were so concerning so as to say 
Miss C acted unreasonably by continuing to make a payment, particularly in the 
absence of an effective warning setting out how Miss C might better protect herself.
Miss C has provided recollections of searching online for tickets, prior to making 
payments to the scammer and that tickets tended to range between £600 and £700. 
Miss C said she also checked the airline she believed she was flying with and found 
the same flights for £600. Miss C was quoted £540 by the scammer. Comparing this 
to other quotes Miss C had seen I think the price was reasonable, and dont think it 
should have alerted Miss C to something being amiss.
I dont think what Miss C was told about the flight company having separate deposit 
and main accounts is unreasonable  and as this was what Miss C understood the 
payments to be for in her circumstances (and as her second payment to the deposit 
account had been returned) I think its understandable why she believed what she 
was being told.
So in summary, Im not persuaded that Metro Bank has shown that Miss C lacked a 
reasonable basis of belief for making the transactions in question, or that it provided her with 
an effective warning before making either payment. Metro Bank should therefore refund the 
funds Miss C lost to the fraudster.
Trouble and upset
Miss C has also complained about the level of service she received when raising a claim  
that she was put through to the wrong fraud department on several occasions and was 
unhappy with the time it took for Metro Bank to investigate. Metro Bank apologised for the 
errors made and paid £30 in compensation. Based on the circumstances of this complaint, I 
think what Metro Bank has offered is fair and wont be directing it to pay any additional 
compensation.  Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint against 
Metro Bank PLC. I require Metro Bank Plc to:
Refund Miss C the remaining £350 she lost to the scam
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date Metro Bank declined Miss Cs claim under the 
CRM Code to the date of settlement 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman