DRN-2919931
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wouldnt accept the information he provided them about 
his source of funds and didnt complete the transfer of his account balance in a timely 
manner.
What happened
Mr M opened an account with Revolut in November 2019. In January 2020, Mr M attempted 
to make several foreign payments, at which time Revolut asked Mr M for supporting 
documents regarding his source of funds. In February 2020, after an account review, 
Revolut explained that theyd decided to close Mr Ms account. Mr M then instructed Revolut 
to transfer the funds in his account back to their original source.
The transfer of Mr Ms funds took longer than expected but Revolut were eventually able to 
confirm that the funds had been successfully transferred. However, when Mr M checked the 
destination account, he discovered that only one of the two transfers that had been initiated 
to transfer the funds had completed. Mr M wasnt happy about this, so he made a complaint.
Revolut looked at Mr Ms complaint. They were able to confirm that both transfers had had 
completed and that therefore all of Mr Ms funds had been returned to the source account. 
However, they acknowledged that the process had taken longer than they would have liked, 
and so they offered Mr M three months of premium account as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Revoluts offer, and he felt that Revoluts actions had caused a 
business contract to be cancelled and that Revolut should compensate him to the amount of 
£50,000. So, Mr M referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that it could be 
demonstrated that the business contact had been cancelled because of Revoluts actions, 
and they felt that Revolut were entitled to request the information regarding the source of Mr 
Ms funds that they had. Additionally, our investigator noted that Revolut hadnt closed Mr 
Ms account, but only suspended Mr Ms ability to fund the account further. Because of this, 
our investigator felt that Revoluts response to Mr Ms complaint, including the offer of three 
months premium service, was a fair and reasonable resolution to what had taken place.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has raised a number of detailed points as to why hes unhappy with Revolut. Id like to 
thank Mr M for raising these points, and I hope that he wont consider it a discourtesy that I 
wont respond in similar detail here. Instead, in line with our role as a quick and informal 
dispute resolution service, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this 
complaint.
As such, if Mr M notices that I havent responded to a specific point that hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read and 
consider all submissions provided by both Mr M and Revolut  but that I have considered 
that point but dont feel it necessary to address that point here in order to arrive at what I 
consider to be a fair outcome  especially if that point has already been addressed and 
considered by our investigator.
One of the main issues here appears to be that Revolut were asking Mr M to provide 
additional information about the source of the funds being transferred into his Revolut 
account, and that Mr M wasnt willing to provide this information.
It is, of course, at Mr Ms discretion as to whether he is willing to provide the further 
information that Revolut were asking for here, and in this instance Mr M chose not to provide 
it. But having made the choice not to provide the further, I find it difficult to conclude that Mr 
M has bee treated unfairly by Revolut when they subsequently placed a block on Mr M 
funding the account from the source account about which they had concerns and which Mr 
M declined to provide further information about.
Mr M contends that Revolut should have requested the information about his source of funds 
when the account was first opened, and he also contends that Revolut should have 
accepted the information he had already provided to them regarding such that no further 
information should have been required. 
I can appreciate Mr Ms points here  to a degree. But it isnt within the remit of this service 
to comment on Revoluts internal processes and how they choose to implement them. 
Rather, this service is concerned with the fairness of outcomes. And, in this instance, its 
difficult for me to conclude that it was unfair for Revolut to have asked Mr M for the further 
information that they did - if Revolut felt it was necessary to do so - regardless of when the 
information was asked for.
Mr M stated in his testimony to this service that, following his declining to provide the 
information, Revolut informed him that they were closing his account. However, its evident 
from the information available to me that this wasnt the case, and that Revolut acted only to 
suspend Mr Ms account from receiving further funds, with Mr M being free to continue using 
his Revolut account with the funds already present in it. However, Revolut did explain to Mr 
M that if he wanted to withdraw the money from his account as a result of this restriction, that 
he should do so in one transaction.
Mr M did elect to withdraw the money from his account and requested that it be returned to 
the source account from which it had been received. Revolut dont dispute that completing 
that request took longer than they would have liked  although Im satisfied that the 
timescale wasnt unduly excessive and that Revolut have been able to demonstrate that the 
full amount of Mr Ms funds were eventually transferred - and Revolut have apologised to Mr 
M for the time that the transfers took and offered Mr M three months of premium account 
service at no cost as a goodwill gesture because of this. 
I commend Revoluts intentions here, but Im not wholly convinced that offering free premium 
service is a suitable goodwill gesture here, given that the funding of Mr Ms account is 
restricted and also that Mr M has just withdrawn all of the funds from the account, and Id 
encourage Revolut to consider an alternative goodwill gesture in this instance.Mr M has also expressed his dissatisfaction at the length of time that it took Revolut to 
supply him with a physical debit card following his opening the account. However, Ive seen 
that Revolut acted quickly to send a debit card to Mr M when he informed them that one 
hadnt been received, and Im satisfied that Mr M did receive a physical card in a reasonable 
timeframe following the account being opened.
Finally, Mr M has stated that he feels that Revolut should pay him compensation totalling 
£50,000 as a result of the time that he has had to spend dealing with this complaint and 
because of a work contract that was cancelled as a result of Revoluts actions. 
However, this service wouldnt look to compensate a complainant on the basis of time spent 
dealing with the complaint, and Im not convinced that Mr M has sufficiently demonstrated 
that the business contract he refers to was cancelled solely as a result of Revoluts actions 
here. It also must be noted that, had Mr M chosen to provide the further information that 
Revolut were asking for, its likely that the actions of Revolut which Mr M feels have led to 
the cancellation of the business contact could have been avoided.
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that Revolut have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Revolut to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr M was wanting here, and I hope that he can 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman