DRN-3330457
The complaint
Mr Y has complained about the part Well Dunn Limited trading as Insurance Revolution 
Broking Services (Well Dunn) played in the cancellation of his motor insurance policy and 
the charges applied when this happened.
What happened
In June 2021 Mr Y contacted Well Dunn to get a quote for a motor trade policy. He was 
offered a policy with an annual premium for around £3,000. He explained hed had a private 
car insurance policy with two years no claims bonus (NCB). Mr Y told Well Dunns call 
handler this had run out in March 2020. He says the call handler accepted the NCB, albeit 
proof was required. 
Mr Y says when he provided evidence of his NCB, Well Dunn wouldnt accept it, despite 
previously saying it would. He says he asked for confirmation of the change in premium 
during the cooling off period so he could cancel the policy if needed. He didnt receive this. 
Mr Y also says Well Dunn promised to accept his NCB if he could prove what hed been 
doing since it expired. He told the business he had a private hire policy in-between but there 
was an ongoing non-fault claim being processed. Mr Y says Well Dunn asked for the NCB 
relating to the private hire policy. He thought this meant his NCB would be accepted, as the 
business just needed proof of cover being in place from his expired NCB to date. 
Mr Y wasnt able to provide proof of NCB relating to the private hire policy, but says he told 
Well Dunn this would be difficult. He says he wasnt told what the adjustment to the policy 
premium would be during the cooling off period. But was misled into thinking the NCB would 
be accepted. He says the premium increase was around £3,000, which he couldnt afford. 
By the time he found out and cancelled the policy a fee for over £500 was applied. 
Mr Y says he shouldve been told what the increase would be if Well Dunn couldnt accept 
his NCB. He also says its staff mocked him during his complaint.    
Well Dunn says Mr Y told it he had two years NCB that expired in March 2020. But when it 
received the documentation this wasnt correct. The NCB had expired over two years ago. It 
says it asked Mr Y if he had any other NCB and he agreed to send proof of this. This wasnt 
provided. Approximately two weeks later Mr Y contacted it again and asked for more time to 
provide the required documents. 
Well Dunn says Mr Y subsequently cancelled the policy toward the end of August 2021. The 
cooling off period ended at the beginning of July so fees applied. It didnt uphold Mr Ys 
complaint. 
Mr Y referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She 
thought Well Dunn had been clear it needed to see evidence of Mr Ys NCB. As the 
information he gave didnt match with his documents it needed additional proof of his NCB to 
maintain the premium quoted. She didnt think Well Dunn had said it would accept evidence 
of the private hire cover in place of proof of his NCB. Because of this she didnt think the 
business had done anything wrong. 
Mr Y didnt think this was a fair outcome. He says he requested to know the adjustment to 
the premium at the beginning of July 2021 during the cooling off period, so he could cancel. 
As it didnt provide this penalty charges were applied. Because he remained unhappy, he 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand that Mr Y will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I have listened to the call recordings Well Dunn provided. This includes the call when Mr Y 
was provided with his initial quote, a follow up call three days later when the policy went live, 
a call a further four days later when he called to discuss his NCB and a call around two 
weeks after this to again discuss this point. 
In the first call Mr Y confirms he has proof of his NCB that expires in March 2020. When the 
policy goes live, he is told to provide various documents including proof of his NCB within 
three weeks. The proof of NCB Mr Y sent in showed it expired in June 2019. Well Dunn 
explains it couldnt accept this proof of NCB because it expired more than two years ago. 
I acknowledge Mr Ys comments that Well Dunn told him it would accept his NCB. But this 
was based on it expiring in March 2020 not June 2019. I dont think it behaved unreasonably 
in requiring further evidence of his NCB to maintain the premium quoted. 
I have listened to the subsequent calls to understand what was discussed regarding the 
private hire insurance. During the call a week after the initial quote, Mr Y says the NCB 
document he sent had expired in June 2019. The call handler asks Mr Y if he has another 
NCB for the private hire cover for the period after June 2019. Mr Y says yes. The call 
handler asks that he sends proof of this and explains this will also show there hasnt been a 
gap in cover from June 2019 to date. Mr Y agrees to send this proof.
17 days later Mr Y calls Well Dunn to discuss issues around his driving licence and to further 
discuss the NCB. He explains there is an ongoing claim under the private hire policy. He 
says this is a non-fault claim but is taking a while to sort out. During the call Mr Y says he will 
provide evidence of the NCB from his previous insurer as soon as he gets it. He says he 
cant afford for this insurance with Well Dunn to be cancelled. He says even if it has to adjust 
the policy thats fine, he says he can accept that until he can provide the required 
documents. The call handler says if it gets to the point where, youve still not got anything 
the premium can be adjusted. He explains Well Dunn is willing to wait at the moment for Mr 
Y to get hold of the documents.
Its clear from these discussions that Well Dunn told Mr Y he must provide proof of a valid 
NCB. The NCB document he sent was over two years out of date and didnt match what he 
had told Well Dunn. Mr Y was told to send in proof of his private hire policy to show there 
hadnt been a gap in his insurance cover. It didnt say this would suffice as proof he had two 
years NCB. I think it was clear that proof of Mr Ys NCB was still needed. 
I have thought about Mr Ys comments that he asked for an adjusted premium so he could decide whether to cancel the policy within the cooling off period. 
Ive seen an email Mr Y sent to Well Dunn at the beginning of July 2021. He mentions the 
NCB issue. The final part of his email says:
I was informed on taking out this policy that this no claims would be accepted, please inform 
me of the changes if this is not accepted. 
I have seen the emailed response Well Dunn sent around two minutes later. This asked Mr 
Y to call it, on the number provided, to discuss further. 
Around twenty minutes later Mr Y called Well Dunn. This is when he agreed to send proof of 
a NCB relating to the private hire cover. Mr Y doesnt ask for an adjusted premium during 
this call. Ten days after this call the cooling off period ended. It was a further week later that 
Mr Y called Well Dunn again. He told it he couldnt afford for the policy to be cancelled but 
would be willing to accept an adjustment until he could provide the necessary documents.
In his email Mr Y did ask Well Dunn of the changes if his NCB isnt accepted. But he 
doesnt mention this in the call he makes shortly afterwards. If hed wanted this information, I 
think it wouldve been reasonable to say so during this call. The focus in the call was around 
providing proof of Mr Ys NCB.
I acknowledge Mr Ys view that Well Dunn prevented him from cancelling the policy within 
the cooling off period, which has cost him over £500. But having listened to the calls, I dont 
think this is the case. Mr Y made clear he wanted to continue with the policy when he called 
following his email. The call handlers explained what was needed with respect to the NCB 
proof. A premium adjustment wasnt mentioned until the call that occurred in mid-July 2021. 
This was after the cooling off period had ended.
I understand Mr Y is frustrated that his policy increased in price significantly, and he was 
unable to cancel without charges. But I dont think Well Dunn failed to provide information 
requested of it, or that it misled Mr Y into thinking it would accept his NCB. 
During the initial calls Well Dunn confirms charges apply if the policy is cancelled outside of 
the 14-day cooling off period. Although I acknowledge Mr Ys argument that he would have 
cancelled within this period, I dont think Well Dunn is responsible for this, and I dont think 
Mr Y has shown that he has been charged incorrectly.   
Finally, Mr Y complains about the service he received, more specifically that he was mocked 
by Well Dunns employees, who sniggered at his name. Im sorry Mr Y was upset by this. I 
didnt hear evidence of this in the calls I listened to. But I cant see that Mr Y has raised this 
concern with the business. He firstly needs to raise his concerns to Well Dunn before 
referring a complaint to our service.
In summary, I dont think Well Dunn treated Mr Y unfairly when setting up his policy or with 
the charges it raised following his cancellation. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more 
to resolve his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman