DRN-4037998
The complaint
Ms B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded her the total amount she
lost when she fell victim to a scam.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in March 2023 to explain why I thought Ms Bs complaint 
should be partially upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. 
This is an extract from that provisional decision:
The facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont intend to go over them in 
detail again here. However, in summary, Ms B made a number of payments between 6 July 
2020 and 17 August 2020 in the belief she was helping an individual that she had recently 
become romantically involved with online. 
Ms B had met this individual, who for the purposes of this decision I will refer to as H, on an 
online dating platform in late June 2020. Ms B has told she was using the website in 
question with the hope of finding a marriage partner. Ms B and H soon began sharing 
messages outside of the website and H explained that he was a mechanical engineer 
working on an oil rig and once his work was completed, he would be returning home. 
Unfortunately, unbeknown to Ms B at the time, H was in fact a fraudster. 
After messaging for a week or so, H asked Ms B to log in to his bank account to make some 
payments to his suppliers for him. When a payment didnt go through, Ms B said she would 
make the payment from her account on his behalf. From this point onwards, Ms B goes on to 
make numerous payments on behalf of H for what she thinks is for the supply and delivery of 
materials for him to complete his work. I have detailed these payments in the table below:
Date Type Account Amount
06/07/2020 International 
transfer1767 £7,000
07/07/2020 International 
transfer1767 £21,754
09/07/2020 International 
transfer1767 £6,000
10/07/2020 International 
transfer1767 £6,000
15/07/2020 International 
transfer1767 £15,000
+£25 fee
17/07/2020 Faster 
payment (UK 
based)1767 £12,000
20/07/2020 International 
transfer1767 £8,000
+£29 fee
27/07/2020 International 
transfer1767 £5,424
+£25 fee
27/07/2020 Payment via 
money transfer 
service 
Debit card5155 £4,126.02
30/07/2020 Payment via 
money transfer 
service
Bill payment1767 £5,521.99
31/07/2020 Cash 
withdrawal 
In branch via 
counter1767 £5,000
31/07/2020 Cash 
withdrawal
In branch ASD 
machine1767 £1,000
31/07/2020 Cash 
withdrawal 
In branch ASD 
machine1767 £90
3/08/2020 Cash 
withdrawal
In branch via 
counter1767 £5,000
3/08/2020 Cash 
withdrawal
In branch ASD 
machine1767 £2,000
3/08/2020 Cash 
withdrawal
In branch ATM5155 £500
04/08/2020 Payment to 
travel agent 
Debit card1767 £1,150
10/08/2020 Debit card 5155 £3,016
17/08/2020 Debit card 5155 £2,004.90
17/08/2020 Payment via 
money transfer 
service
Debit card5155 £2,003.99Ms B has said that throughout the scam, she genuinely believed that she was in a loving 
relationship with H and believed that they would be married when he returned home. 
However, in mid-August, when Ms B confided in a friend of hers about what was happening, 
her friend told her this sounded like a scam and to contact her bank immediately.  Ms B then 
got in touch with Barclays to let them know what had happened and to ask if they would 
refund her the money she had lost.  
After some back and forth, Barclays offered to refund Ms B 50% of her total loss  minus any 
funds sent back from the receiving banks. Barclays said it shouldve identified that Ms B was 
likely falling victim to a scam when it contacted her to discuss the first payment. And had it 
done so, it likely couldve prevented the scam. Barclays said it had agreed to refund Ms B 
50% of her total loss as it thought she should also bear some responsibility for the success 
of the scam. It said Ms B had taken no steps to verify what shed been told by H before 
making the payments now in question. And it pointed out that Ms B had only known H for a 
short time, had not met him in person and she had no way of knowing if he would ever pay 
her back. Barclays did however offer Ms B £500 for the way it handled her complaint and the 
distress this had caused her. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Ms B brought her complaint to this service and one of our 
investigators looked into things. The investigator agreed that Barclayss offer was 
reasonable. He said he didnt need to make a finding on whether Barclays couldve done 
more than it did to prevent the scam  Barclays had already said it couldve done more. And 
therefore, the only thing left for him to consider was whether Ms B should also bear some 
responsibility for her overall loss. And he agreed with Barclays that she should. 
Ms B did not agree with the investigators findings, she said:
The activity on her account during the scam was unusual and Barclays shouldve 
picked up on this and warned her about potential scams. It had failed to do so, 
and this shows Barclays had inadequate security measures in place at the time. 
Barclays had told her it had applied the considerations in the CRM Code when 
deciding to refund her 50% of her overall loss. The Investigator had said the Code 
only applied to one of the payments she had made, and therefore this was 
incorrect.  
She had told Barclays during her first conversation with them that she was 
purchasing materials for her partner who worked on an oil rig. She now knows that 
this is a common ploy used by fraudsters and the bank shouldve been aware of 
this at the time and picked up on what she was saying. Had it done so; the scam 
couldve been prevented. Ms B said this information was also confirmed by a 
member of Barclays staff.  
Ms B disagreed that she shouldve identified that something might not be quite 
right at the start and done more to protect herself. And she didnt think an offer of 
50% of her total loss was fair. She said that throughout the scam, she believed 
this was the man she was going to marry and so she didnt question what he had 
told her. Ms B said this was a sophisticated scam and she had been convinced H 
was legitimate and had wanted to help him. So, it never crossed her mind that 
something might be wrong. 
Ms B disagreed with our investigators finding that her story as to the reason she 
was making the payments had changed throughout the scam. She said this wasnt 
true and she had maintained throughout that she was purchasing supplies for her 
partner. This is what she believed she was doing and so she had no cause to say 
anything else. 
Ms B disagreed with the investigators finding that further intervention from the 
bank was unlikely to have stopped her continuing to make payments due to the depths of the spell she was under. Ms B reiterated that the bank couldve 
prevented the scam had it intervened.
Ms B said the total loss detailed in the Investigators view was incorrect and 
disagreed that the £500 offered to her in compensation was enough.
Ms Bs over-arching point was that the bank had accepted fault here and therefore 
it should offer her a full refund of the total amount she had lost.  
Our investigator considered Ms Bs additional points but didnt change his mind. 
As an agreement was not reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Having done so, Im minded to reach a different outcome to the one reached by our 
investigator. Im currently of the opinion that Barclays should refund Ms B some of the initial 
transactions she made in full. Ill explain why in more detail below. 
Firstly, however, I want to acknowledge the detailed submissions Ms B has put forward in 
support of her complaint. Id like to assure her I have read everything she has provided in its 
entirety  including the messages shared between her and H throughout the course of the 
scam. However, I dont intend to respond in similar detail. Ive focussed on what I consider to 
be the key points and the crux of the complaint. And if I dont mention a particular point or 
piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Instead, its just that I 
dont feel the need to reference it in order to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a 
discourtesy  its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
The banks obligations 
Ms B has said she was informed by Barclays that it had assessed her complaint against its 
obligations under the CRM Code. Barclays is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Code (the CRM Code). The code requires banks, such as 
Barclays, to refund customers who have been the victims of a scam, with some limited 
exceptions. However, in this particular case, the code only applies to one of the transactions 
Ms B made - the £12,000 bank transfer she made on 17 July 2020 to a UK bank account. It 
doesnt apply to any of the transactions that were made to international accounts or that 
were made using Ms Bs debit card or with cash. 
The regulations relevant to the initial international transfers dictate that where Ms B 
authorised the transfers herself, she should be held liable for them in the first instance. In 
other words, the starting position is that banks are expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
Theres no dispute here that Ms B authorised the transfers herself. However, where a 
customer makes a payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though the 
consumer authorised the payment. 
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Barclays should 
fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Barclays fraud monitoring system did identify the initial transaction as warranting further 
attention and it contacted Ms B to discuss the payment before it was allowed to leave her 
account. However, Barclays did not identify that Ms B was likely falling victim to a scam. 
Barclays has already accepted that it couldve done more here and it shouldve identified 
that something might not be quite right. Had it done so, it couldve prevented the scam from 
this point onwards. Because of this, it has agreed to refund Ms B 50% of her total loss. 
As Barclays has already agreed it ought to have done more, I dont propose to offer further 
comment on Barclays obligations - except to say that I agree Barclays couldve done more 
to uncover and prevent the success scam from the outset. 
As Im satisfied that Barclays should bear some responsibility for the success of the scam, 
the next thing for me to consider is whether it would be fair and reasonable for Ms B to also 
share some responsibility for her losses by way of contributory negligence. And I think she 
should. However, I dont agree that Ms B should bear this responsibility from the first 
transaction onwards. Ill explain why in more detail below.
Should Ms B bear some responsibility for her overall loss
Firstly, I want to stress that I have no doubt Ms B genuinely believed what she was being 
told by H. She has consistently told us that throughout the course of the scam, she believed 
theyd started a loving relationship and were to be married. I have no reason to doubt what 
Ms B has told us. However, Ms B believing H was legitimate isnt good enough, I have to 
consider whether it was reasonable for Ms B to believe what she was being told given 
everything that was happening during the scam.  
Ms B has told us that she was specifically looking for a marriage partner on the dating 
website in question and she had been quite specific about this from the outset. Shes told us 
that in her culture it isnt unusual to start discussing marriage quite quickly when a suitable 
partner is found. And so, the relationship between her and H progressing so quickly wasnt a 
red-flag for her. With this in mind, I can understand why this didnt raise any red-flags for Ms 
B, she simply thought she had found what shed been looking for. So, I dont think the speed 
with which marriage was discussed between Ms B and H was so usual here that it means 
Ms B shouldve had cause for concern from the outset  as our investigator said. Ive also 
had to bear in mind that, at the time, Ms B wouldnt have been aware that the story provided 
to her by H, is a common scenario presented by fraudsters perpetrating this particular type of scam. At the time, I understand why Ms B found this explanation plausible and why it 
appeared to explain why H was often unable to speak on the telephone. 
I also have to bear in mind that this was a sophisticated scam. H had been able to pretend 
that he had attempted voice-calls with Ms B on various occasions, but the signal was lost. 
And by the time Ms B offered to make the first payment on his behalf, he had been able to 
falsify a video-call too. This meant Ms B believed she had very nearly been able to speak to 
him in person and believed she had seen him in person via video-link  however we now 
know this was likely a pre-recorded video designed to fool Ms B. 
H had also been able to persuade Ms B that she was speaking with genuine steel suppliers 
on his behalf and that her correspondence with them was legitimate. And hed given Ms B 
access to what she thought was his genuine bank account which appeared to contain 
significant funds. In short, H had used a number of social engineering techniques that were 
designed to manipulate Ms B and draw her into the scam and into believing what she had 
been told  using emotive explanations to justify why he needed the funds he was 
requesting and why he needed them so quickly. And so, whilst I do acknowledge that there 
were some red-flags right from the outset, I dont think there was anything significant 
enough, given Ms Bs knowledge and cultural context, that means Ms B acted negligently 
from the outset. 
However, having said the above, I have significant concerns about how plausible Hs story 
became as the scam continued over time. I have read the messages shared between H and 
Ms B during the course of the scam and he appears to have required money to facilitate 
various unexpected projects, and as a result of numerous errors and emergencies. All of 
which required the urgent transfer of funds over a matter of days. And I think its unlikely all 
of the above wouldve happened to the same person within a relatively short period of time. 
By 9 July 2020, he had asked for around £40,000 in three days and Im satisfied that this 
shouldve given Ms B significant cause for concern. 
At this point, I have to bear in mind that Ms B had not met this individual in person and she 
had only been communicating with him for around three weeks. She had not sought to verify 
his identity or what he had told her and she had no way of knowing that he would pay her 
back or that they would meet face to have face - other than what he had told her. She simply 
accepted what he said at face value. And so, whilst as Ive said above, I have no doubt that 
Ms B genuinely believed what she was being told, Im not persuaded that her belief was 
reasonable as the scam continued. And given the sums involved by this point and the near 
constant requests for money, Im satisfied Ms B shouldve been concerned. By the third 
transaction, there were a number of red-flags and the story became less and less believable 
over time. And towards the end of the scam, its not really clear why Ms B is having to make 
payments on his behalf at all. But by this point, its clear Ms B is so embroiled in the scam 
that she isnt stopping to think about what she is being asked to do.  
Overall, Im satisfied that a reasonable person ought to have had significant concerns about 
what was happening as the scam went on. And from reading the messages shared between 
Ms B and the scammer, its clear that Ms B did have at least some concerns herself. But she 
continues to make payments, it appears in the hope that the relationship is real and because 
of this, she also takes a risk that it is not. And so, having considered all of the evidence I 
have available to me, I do think Ms B should bear some responsibility for her overall loss. Im 
satisfied it would be fair and reasonable for Ms B to bear responsibility of 50% of her total 
loss from 9 July 2020 onwards  as it is at this point the story starts to become less plausible 
and the sums involved have started to increase. 
Recovery of funds Ive also thought about whether Barclays couldve done more to help Ms B once it was 
notified of the scam but I dont think it could. 
In regard to the debit card payments, the only option available to Barclays to recover Ms Bs 
funds wouldve been to raise a chargeback under the Visa chargeback scheme. However, I 
dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to have decided not to pursue this course of action 
and I agree that any potential chargeback wouldve likely been unsuccessful. Ms Bs funds 
were transferred via third-party money remittance services. And so in this case, the 
requested service, the conversion of the funds into the relevant currency and the transfer 
onwards, had been provided by the service provider. And so I dont think its unreasonable 
for Barclays to have declined to pursue this course of action. 
The majority of the funds here were transferred to international bank accounts and 
international banks arent bound by the same rules and regulations as banks within the UK. 
Barclays is reliant upon the international banks choosing to return funds or not. I can see 
that two payments were returned to Ms B and that Barclays contacted the international 
banks about the other payments too. But unfortunately, no further funds were sent back.  
I can also see that Barclays contacted the UK bank in regard to the payment made on 17 
July 2020 but no funds remained in the account to be returned to Ms B.
There was no avenue open to Barclays to have sought to recover the cash payments Ms B 
made via the money remittance providers.   
Customer service
Finally, I have considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to require Barclays to pay 
Ms B compensation over above the £500 already offered to her for the trouble and upset 
shes experienced. 
Im very sorry to hear about what happened to Ms B. She has been the victim of a cruel 
scam, one that preys on the good nature of its victims. Im also very sorry to hear about the 
impact its had on her emotionally and the continuing impact on her mental health - which 
she has been open and honest about. But, ultimately, I do have to stress here that her loss, 
and much of the trouble and upset shes experienced, were caused by the cruel and callous 
acts of the fraudster, not Barclays. At the same time, I acknowledge that if Barclays had 
handled her complaint better from the outset then some of the ongoing effects on Ms B 
couldve been avoided. I understand that Barclays changing its offer and not communicating 
its reasons as to why clearly wouldve been upsetting for Ms B. I also understand why being 
told conflicting things as to the progress of her complaint wouldve added an extra level of 
worry and anxiety to the distress Ms B was already feeling. However, Barclays has already 
offered Ms B £500 to compensate her for the distress caused by the confusion and errors in 
its investigation. This is more than I wouldve likely recommend given that a certain amount 
of distress and inconvenience is inevitable when complaining about such scams and so Im 
satisfied Barclays current offer of £500 is fair.
Summary
Im sorry Ms B has lost money and I can understand why she would like to be compensated 
in full for all her losses. There is no dispute that she has been the victim of a horrible scam. I 
am deeply sorry to hear about what happened to Ms B, but her being the victim of a scam, 
doesnt automatically mean Barclays is liable for all of her losses. I realise my decision will 
be a significant disappointment to Ms B. However, despite my natural sympathy for the 
situation she finds herself in, ultimately, I think she should bear some responsibility for her actions - although not to the extent that Barclays suggested. It therefore follows that I think 
Barclays refusal to fully reimburse Ms B for the majority transactions is fair and reasonable. 
However, it should reimburse Ms B for the transactions made prior to 9 July 2020, in full. 
Putting things right 
In order to put things right for Ms B, Im currently minded to ask Barclays Bank UK PLC to:  
refund Ms B the first two transactions in full - taking into account any refunds already 
paid.
Add interest on the above at the account rate from the date each payment was made 
to the date of settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded to reach the same overall conclusions as I reached in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why in more detail below.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. Ms B 
responded to say that whilst she partially agreed with my decision, she would like me to 
consider asking Barclays to refund her all of the bank transfers shed made in full. 
Ms B said the majority of the bank transfers that took place during the scam were made in 
branch, not online, as had been set out in the table of transactions in my provisional 
decision. Ms B said that each time she had been in branch, she had told each of the 
advisors she had spoken with that she was transferring money to pay for her partners job-
related materials as he works on an oil-rig in the North Sea. 
Ms B stressed that none of the advisors picked up on this or told her they thought this might 
be a scam  which they shouldve been aware of at the time. She stressed that no one at the 
bank had picked up on the amount of transactions she was making to lots of new payees. 
Ms B reiterated that when she originally spoke to Barclays about what had happened, one of 
its advisors had said his colleagues had missed many opportunities to uncover the scam and 
therefore to prevent Ms Bs continued losses. For these reasons, Ms B felt that Barclays 
should refund all of the bank transfers she had made as part of the scam in full. 
I acknowledge what Ms B has said about the majority of the transfers being made in branch 
and I have updated the transaction table to remove the reference to online transfers. 
I also want to acknowledge what Ms B has said about Barclays not identifying that she was 
likely falling victim to a scam from the outset. As I said in my provisional decision, I agree 
that Barclays shouldve identified that Ms B was likely falling victim to a scam from the first 
conversation it had with her. And Barclays agrees with this too. However, this doesnt 
necessarily mean that Barclays should be held liable for all of the transfers Ms B made now. 
Once Barclays role in the success of the scam has been agreed, the next thing I need to 
think about is whether Ms B should also bear some responsibility for the success of the 
scam and her losses. And as I said in my provisional decision, I think she should. This is the 
reason I recommended that Ms B and Barclays should share responsibility for the overall 
loss from the 9 July 2020 onwards. The redress I recommended reflects that both Ms B and 
Barclays played a role in the success of the scam.  As Neither Ms B nor Barclays has provided any new evidence or submissions that has 
changed my mind, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Ms B, Barclays Bank UK PLC should now:  
refund Ms B the first two transactions in full - taking into account any refunds already 
paid.
add interest on the above at the account rate from the date each payment was made 
to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman