DRN-2685174
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) still had her ex-husband listed 
as a joint account holder on her account, even though she had instructed his removal 
several years ago. Ms M is also unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc delayed 
removing her ex-husband from the account once she contacted them to have him removed. 
What happened
Ms M resides overseas and was in receipt of complementary healthcare from the overseas 
authority on the basis that the income she receives from UK sources is sufficiently low for 
her to qualify. In October 2020, Ms M received a notification from the overseas authority that 
she needed to provide proof of her UK income in order for her eligibility for the 
complementary healthcare to continue.
Ms M signed into her online banking with RBS and noticed that her ex-husband was still 
listed as a joint account holder, even though she had instructed RBS to remove him several 
years ago. This was problematic for Ms M as she needed to provide bank statements to the 
overseas authority in her name only as proof of qualifying income, and her ex-husbands 
income would be taken into account if she provided statements in both of their names.
Ms M contacted her ex-husband who advised that he wasnt aware that he was still a joint 
account holder and who agreed to being removed from the account. Ms M and her ex-
husband contacted RBS and instructed the removal of Ms Ms husband from the account. 
However, RBS didnt process this request in a timely manner, so Ms M raised a complaint.
RBS looked at Ms Ms complaint. They acknowledged that Ms Ms husband was still listed 
as a joint account holder at that time and that that they could have processed the request to 
remove him more quickly. RBS also acknowledged that the standard of service which Ms M 
had received regarding this matter wasnt to the level that they would have liked. So, RBS 
upheld Ms Ms complaint and promised to remove Ms Ms ex-husband from the account by 3 
November 2020. RBS also made a payment of £150 to Ms Ms account by way of 
compensation for the inconvenience Ms M had incurred.
Ms M didnt think that RBSs response went far enough, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the spirit of RBSs 
response was a reasonable one, but they noted that Ms Ms ex-husband hadnt been 
removed at the start of November 2020 as RBS had sad that he would be, but rather that he 
was removed from the account on 31 December 2020. Because of this, our investigator felt 
that RBS should make a further compensation payment to Ms M of an additional £100.  
RBS accepted the view put forward by our investigator. But Ms M remained dissatisfied and 
felt that RBS should cover the costs of her healthcare for the time that she was unable to 
confirm her qualifying income to the overseas authority, and so the matter was escalated to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In accepting the view of this complaint put forward by our investigator, RBS have accepted 
that they didnt remove Ms Ms ex-husband from the account in early November 2021 as 
they had said they would and that its fair that they should pay Ms M additional 
compensation because of this. This feels reasonable to me, and its noted that this point isnt 
in dispute.
What is in dispute here is the level of compensation that RBS should pay. Specifically, Ms M 
contends that because she has been unable to provide proof of qualifying income to the 
overseas authority for several months, and so hasnt qualified for complementary healthcare 
for that time because of this, RBS should compensate her for the healthcare costs that she 
has incurred during this period.
I can understand Ms Ms point here, but in order for me to consider instructing RBS to 
increase the amount of compensation in that way that Ms M wants, Id need to be satisfied 
that Ms M not being able to provide evidence of her qualifying income to the overseas 
authority was solely as a result of RBS not removing Ms Ms ex-husband in a timely manner 
when they were instructed to do so. 
Ultimately, I dont feel that RBS can be held solely accountable for this. And I say this 
because Ms Ms ex-husband hadnt been removed from the account at any time previously 
and so had been listed as a joint holder on the account continually up until the time that he 
was eventually removed. 
This means that Ms M could have seen that her ex-husband was listed as a joint account 
holder at any point prior to when she noticed this fact in October 2020 and could have 
arranged for his removal from the account accordingly. And while I can understand that Ms 
M may not have noticed her ex-husband being on the account until recently, I dont feel that 
it would be fair to censure RBS for this.
Im aware that Ms M has stated that she did instruct RBS to remove her ex-husband from 
the account several years ago, but RBS dont have any record of this, and Ms M hasnt been 
able to provide any herself. It must be noted that even if Ms M had been able to provide 
confirmation that she had made such a request, given that this request would have been 
made several years ago, and that Ms Ms ex-husband remained on the account continuously 
since then, Im not convinced that this would have affected the outcome that Ive reached 
here.
It follows then that I dont feel that it would be fair to ask RBS to cover the cost of Ms Ms 
healthcare for time that Ms M is wanting. And Im satisfied that the payment of an additional 
£100 compensation by RBS, as recommended by our investigator, represents a reasonable 
resolution to this complaint. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms M was wanting here, but I hope that she can 
understand, based on everything that I have explained above, why I have made the final 
decision that I have.  
Putting things right
RBS should make an additional payment of £100 to Ms M, as explained above.  
My final decisionI uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc on the basis explained 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman