DRN-4439924
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Wakam handled a window damage claim on his commercial 
vehicle insurance policy. 
Any references to Wakam are intended to include the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on providing my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the claim notes I am satisfied that there were supply issues with 
obtaining the correct window to repair Mr As car and as such, the delay in fully 
completing the repair was unavoidable. Im satisfied a temporary repair took place in 
the meantime. 
I understand Engineer appointments were booked and then cancelled, which would 
have been inconvenient however Im satisfied this was due to the issues being 
experienced. 
Mr A has said he lost earnings as he was unable to trade until the window was 
properly fixed. I can see his earnings were down against what he usually took, 
however I cant say this was due to an error by Wakam. 
I understand the vehicle was an import and this is what partly caused the delays. And 
an engineer turned up with the incorrect sized window, however this was rectified 
with the repair being completed fully three days later.
Mr A does not have loss of earnings cover on his policy with Wakam so I could only 
direct Wakam to compensate Mr A for loss of earnings if I thought it made an error. 
Here Im satisfied a majority of the delays were due to supply issues which was 
outside of Wakams control. 
The policy confirms repairs can be completed with parts not supplied by the original 
manufacturer. Mr A has argued the window supplied is inferior however he has not 
provided any evidence which shows that to be the case.
I do think Mr A was put to some inconvenience and its communication could have 
been better. I think Wakam should pay him £100 compensation to reflect this.
Mr A mentions issues and other cover he had arranged through the broker of his 
policies; however I havent looked at that here, Ive only considered the matters 
relating to the Wakam policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint against Wakam. I direct it to pay him £100 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman