DRN-3898071
The complaint
Mr M complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him when 
he could not afford it. 
What happened
Mr M was approved for one loan in March 2017. It was for £5,000 and the repayments were 
scheduled to be £372.67 a month for 36 months. The total to pay when interest had been 
added to the loan was £13,426.12. My understanding is that he has repaid to Everyday 
Lending over £8,000 and that figure may be higher by the time Im writing this.
Mr M complained to Everyday Lending and received a final response letter in which it gave 
details of the checks it did before approving the loan. It did not uphold his complaint.
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
adjudicators thought that Everyday Lending had enough evidence to recognise that Mr M 
was having trouble managing his money and ought not to have lent to him. 
Everyday disagreed and said:
The evidence he submitted to support his application does not indicate he was 
having problems managing his money and he provided plausible and reasonable 
explanations for any derogatory information we did sight.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions 
I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Everyday Lending , each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Lending  to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Lending had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Lending simply to think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon 
several factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, 
a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. My decision is that I uphold the complaint.
I have seen that Everyday Lending obtained a payslip from Mr M, reviewed some bank 
statements, and did a credit search before lending. Ive been given copies. Mr Ms credit file 
was relatively positive and his salary was regular. But the bank statements revealed returned 
payments and that one month he could not afford his rent. 
It was also clear that Mr M had more outgoings than the usual ones for his immediate day to 
day living and household bills. And I say that because Mr M was transferring regular 
amounts of money to family abroad and was supporting his son at University in UK. I can 
see that Everyday Lending asked him about this at the time due to the annotations on the 
statements. 
Having reviewed it all carefully I do not think that Everyday Lending should have ignored this 
aspect of his life and expenses as it was unlikely to change. And so, the total amount to 
repay combined with the term of the loan being as long as it was then I think it should have 
realised that this was not going to be possible for Mr M to afford it without borrowing further 
to pay for it. 
I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Putting things right
Everyday Lending should take back the debt from the debt collector if it can and ensure that 
the following is done: 
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
Treat any payments made by Mr M as payments towards the capital amount of £5,000,
If Mr M has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday Lending should come to a 
reasonable repayment plan with Mr M
Remove any adverse payment information about the loan from his credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending to take off tax from this interest. It 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct that Everyday Lending Limited 
does as I have outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman