DRN-3172310
The complaint
Mr M says the quality, adequacy and suitability of the advice he received from Chase de 
Vere Independent Financial Advisers (Chase) was lacking, with potentially serious 
consequences for his pension and tax planning.
What happened
Mr M had been a client of Chase for several years. In 2019 he and his wife sought advice 
about their retirement income planning and investing in a tax efficient manner to deliver 
capital growth and income.
Chase produced a suitability report dated 23 October 2019. Following a meeting with Mr and 
Mrs M shortly afterwards, they discussed the planned disposal of two properties and the 
transfer of the title of another from Mr M into joint names. These matters hadnt been 
considered in the suitability report it had produced.
The effect of the plans Mr and Mrs M had for certain of their properties meant there would be 
more capital available and that their tax liabilities could be managed more efficiently. This in 
turn meant they didnt need to access tax-free cash (TFC) and income available from one of 
Mr Ms pension plans, as previously recommended. Chase issued a letter on 7 November 
2019 as an addendum to its initial report to reflect these developments.
Following further exchanges between the parties, in January 2020 Mr M expressed his 
dissatisfaction with the service hed been provided by Chase, questioning its quality, 
adequacy and suitability. In particular, he raised three main areas of concern, which he has 
most recently described in the following terms:
-The significant factual misstatement in regard to the Lifetime Allowance position.
-The gross error in stating there was in existence a Letter of Wishes (a critical matter), 
when in fact there was no such letter.
-The failure to at the very least put before me the options of a more tax efficient 
realisation of assets
Chase responded to Mr M on 11 February 2020. It acknowledged errors in its advice. For 
example, it had said he had a Lifetime Allowance (LTA) of £1.25 million. Any pension 
provision beyond this would be subject to higher rates of tax. Actually, hed successfully 
applied for Individual Protection in February 2017, which meant he had an LTA of £1.5 
million.
Chase had also indicated to Mr M in its communications that there was an Expression of 
Wishes in place for his Curtis Banks Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP). This was 
important to ensure he could have some control over how the benefits of his pension plan 
would be distributed in the event of his death. Following Mr Ms request for a copy of the 
documentation, the adviser confirmed none was in place. Action was taken to rectify the 
position.
Chase apologised for the things it had got wrong. In recognition of its failings it offered to 
reduce its advice fee of £2000 by £250. Mr M didnt think this was sufficient to resolve the 
situation and so he brought his complaint to this Service.
Two Investigators have considered Mr Ms complaint, neither upheld his case. The last 
Investigator to review his complaint found that Chase had done enough to put matters right. 
Mr M disagreed and so his case has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why Ive arrived at my conclusion.
Both parties are agreed that the advice Chase provided in October and November 2019 was 
not up to standard. It had incorrectly indicated the LTA cover Mr M benefitted from and 
wasnt right about an Expression of Wish being in place for his SIPP.
Mr M also says Chase failed to outline his options fully for the tax efficient realisation of his 
assets. I can see the suitability report of 23 October 2019 didnt take into account his plans 
regarding disposal and change in title of various property assets he and his wife held. 
I note that a few days after Mr M received Chases report, there was a meeting between the 
parties at which his plans for his property assets were discussed. This was reflected in the 
supplementary advice Chase issued on 7 November 2019.
Chases position on this matter is that the suitability report from 23 October 2019 was based 
on plans which had been drawn up in discussion between the parties during 2018 and 2019. 
Following the meeting with Mr M on 30 October 2019 where developments in relation to Mr 
and Mrs Ms property assets were covered, the addendum was issued to reflect their 
updated situation.
In considering this matter Im mindful of two things. Firstly, the period between the issue of 
the first suitability report and then the additional advice to reflect Mr and Mrs Ms property 
asset plans was short. So, the initial recommendations potentially affected hadnt been acted 
on.
Secondly, Mr M sent his adviser an email on 20 November 2019 which contained the 
following passage:
Disposal of the flat in [location A] is unlikely until the spring of next year. There is a sitting 
tenant to whom we'll offer the opportunity, but we doubt that she'll be able to progress in 
which event we'll have to secure vacant possession before securing a saleSimilarly the 
shop in [location B] is the subject of a lease which expires January 2021. You'll remember the tenants have an option to buy but missed the trigger date to exercise that optionto a 
large extent the timing of a sale here is in the hands of the tenant
Whilst clearly extraordinarily tax efficient from the perspective of releasing capital we are not 
in control of timing and to that extent now the sale[s] are and must be aspirational.
So, there were uncertainties for Mr and Mrs M around realising their property asset plans.
Mr M has been very clear throughout, he hasnt alleged financial loss resulting from the 
things that Chase has got wrong. Hes frustrated by the fact that he had to make enquiries, 
challenge certain matters and prompt action. Had he not done this hes concerned about the 
serious detriment to his financial affairs that couldve arisen. And he raises a question about 
at what point this Service would consider a suitability report to be so flawed as to require a 
firm to be sanctioned.
I understand Mr Ms views. 
In response, my starting point is to observe that each complaint this Service deals with is 
considered according to the individual circumstances and evidence of the case.
Ive considered the work Chase undertook for Mr and Mrs M. It conducted a detailed fact-
finding exercise; held meetings with them and responded to their queries; and issued a 43 
page suitability report and addendum, covering their separate retirement and investment 
plans with detailed recommendations.
The information Chase provided Mr M about his LTA and the Expression of Wishes for his 
SIPP couldve caused significant financial detriment had these matters not be uncovered. 
But if this had happened, its more likely than not Chase wouldve been liable to put matters 
right.
Mr and Mrs M havent suffered a financial loss. Chase has said sorry for the things it got 
wrong. And its offered to reduce its fee by £250. On balance, I think Chase de Vere 
Independent Financial Advisers has done enough to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman