DRN-2086117
The complaint
Mr A, as director of H, a limited company, complains that TSB Bank plc told him that he was
eligible to receive a cashback amount of £3,000 three months after switching Hs business
banking account to it. He then found out that Hs turnover flowing through the account would
only mean hed receive £1,000 after six months.
What happened
As director of H, Mr A decided to switch Hs business banking account to another provider. 
He discussed the benefits of switching to TSB with it and it asked him about the turnover that
would go through the account. Mr A said there would be over £20,000 as an initial deposit
and a monthly flow-through of £8,000 to £10,000. He was told this would mean H would
qualify for a cashback payment of £3,000 three months after the account was switched. So
Mr A decided to go ahead.
When he received the letter of confirmation that the account with TSB had been set up, the
cashback figure quoted was £1,000 after six months, which was different to what hed been
previously told. Mr A contacted TSB and was told that this information was incorrect. And he
was then sent another email confirming £3,000 after three months.
But Mr A then received a further email saying that £1,000 would be paid into Hs account
within 10 days. Mr A complained. He felt that hed been misled into switching the account to
TSB. He said H should receive the full £3,000 of the incentive.
TSB said that the banding criteria for the incentive considers information from Hs previous
bank about the level of business turnover, and this meant H would receive £1,000 cashback
not £3,000. But it apologised for the wrong information Mr A had been given over the phone,
and in the email. It said it would be crediting Hs account with £62 - £50 for inconvenience
and £12 for call costs.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said that there were no recordings of
the calls and discussions Mr A had with TSB that were made before H became its customer.
But he didnt believe that TSB had deliberately misinformed Mr A to entice him to switch. The
investigator thought that Mr A had been clear that a portion of the turnover would be a lump
sum deposit into the account at the start, and not multiple payments, but he was incorrectly
told that this meant H was eligible for the £3,000 cashback payment.
The investigator didnt think that TSB had been clear enough in the terms and conditions
about the incentive. He said that there was no mention of the banding, and he felt the
wording of the turnover of £20,000 through your business account was ambiguous. He said
the terms didnt clarify how turnover was calculated, or whether it included initial deposits, or
needed to be regular payments rather than a lump sum.
But the investigator didnt think it would be fair for TSB to have to pay £3,000 when this isnt
what H shouldve received. But he said that, if Mr A had been given the correct information,
he may have chosen a different bank for H. So he said TSB should increase the
compensation amount by a further £200.
TSB responded to say that while it regretted sending Mr A an email which incorrectly said H
would receive £3,000, this was a clerical error and H was never eligible to receive that
amount. It said Mr A was sent other emails and correspondence to let him know that H
would receive £1,000. It said it thought the compensation already paid was fair to apologise
for the error.
Mr A said that he accepted TSB did not deliberately try to mislead him and that mistakes can
be made. But he felt that TSB made a verbal offer, explained the basis of this and confirmed
it in writing. He disagreed that TSB didnt have a contractual obligation to honour the higher
amount, as he said a contract had been formed by its written offer to pay H £3,000 for
switching its banking to TSB. He felt that H was entitled to the full amount of £3,000 but said
he would be prepared to accept a further £1,000.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020. In summary, I said I thought 
TSB should pay H a further £200 for inconvenience.
I considered the terms and conditions of the offer, and the amount of the incentive payment 
depended on the level of turnover through the account over a defined period. To qualify for 
£1,000 cashback, a minimum of £6,000 turnover should flow through the current account in 
the first six months after the switch. To qualify for £3,000 cashback, a minimum of £20,000 
turnover should flow through the current account in the first three months after the switch.
I said I didnt necessarily think that the meaning of turnover in this sense needed more 
explanation in the context of the incentive. And I thought it was highly likely that Mr A has a 
good understanding of the level of turnover or flow-through of his companys account. 
However, I said TSBs documentation didnt specify in detail how, for the incentive, the 
turnover needs to show in the account  the inclusion of a lump sum deposit for example.
Mr A said that hed explained that the account would be opened with a deposit of £20,000. 
So I thought it was possible that it was thought that this would be included in what was 
classed as turnover in that initial period, when that wasnt the case. And I could see that 
when completing the application to switch to TSB, Mr A entered an annual turnover of 
£80,000 for H. So, in accordance with the incentive terms, this would mean a payment of 
£1,000 would be received. 
However, I said I appreciated that Mr A based his decision to switch Hs business banking to 
TSB because he was told that H would receive a payment of £3,000. Unfortunately, as the
investigator said, these discussions were before H became TSBs customer, so there wasnt 
any record to show specifically what wouldve been said. TSB told us that H and Mr A 
wouldve been sent documentation through the switching process which wouldve set out the 
relevant details of the incentive and that this would be £1,000 for H. But again, there wasnt 
any record of these.
Mr A was sent an email in May 2019, which showed that the incentive payment would be
£1,000, and it seemed this was what prompted Mr A to contact TSB about this and
discuss it with a representative. He then received a further email setting out the incentive
payment of £3,000. Its this email that TSB has said was sent because of a clerical error.
But I said I thought Mr As emails to TSB; the account notes; and the timing of the incorrect
email, when considered together, suggested it was likely that a discussion was held about 
the level of the incentive payment. And the incorrect email Mr A then received reassured him 
of the amount at that time. It was only then when he received another email when the incentive payment was due to be paid, that his concerns were again raised about the 
amount of it.
I said I could appreciate why Mr A may feel that a verbal contract was formed when he was 
told the cashback payment would be £3,000. But I didnt think that was the case, when this 
incentive was always subject to criteria being met, and H didnt meet the criteria for the 
£3,000 payment.
Taking everything into account, I thought a further payment of £200 would more fairly 
recognise Hs inconvenience through the incorrect information given about the level of
the incentive payment. I said that if the correct information had been given or clarified earlier, 
this may have influenced Mr As decision-making about the account switch. Or Mr As 
expectations of the payment couldve been managed at the time he queried it following his
email in May.
I said that TSBs customer here is H, a limited company, rather than Mr A in a personal 
banking capacity. And that company itself cant suffer distress or upset in the way a person 
could. I said that referring to the inconvenience that Mr A might have suffered as director of 
H might be different to how he sees it. But I said that, if I make what might be considered an 
excessive award in this regard, it might not be enforceable. 
The responses
Mr A said that he didnt have anything further to add in response to my provisional decision.
TSB responded to say that while it had no further points to add, it didnt agree that a further 
£200 should be paid to H. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr H nor TSB have made any further comments in response to my provisional 
decision, however I appreciate that TSB doesnt agree that a further amount should be paid 
to H.
TSB initially paid H £50 to recognise the inconvenience this situation caused H (along with 
£12 for call costs). But, having reviewed all the information provided, my findings remain that 
a total of £250 more fairly recognises the inconvenience H was caused through the incorrect 
information Mr A was given about the level of the incentive payment H would receive. As I 
said in my provisional decision, I think that providing the correct information or clarification 
sooner may have influenced the decision to switch the business account to TSB or may 
have managed Mr As expectations when he queried what hed been told about this.
Putting things right
Because of what Ive set out above, my decision remains that TSB should pay H an 
additional £200.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay H a further £200 
for the inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman