DRN-3651497
The complaint
Mr L complains that U K insurance Limited (UKI) charged an excess fee for damage that 
wasnt his fault under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L says his neighbours boundary wall was blown over during a storm damaging his car. 
He made a no-fault claim to UKI and gave details of his neighbours home insurance for it to 
recover the costs. Mr L explains UKI arranged for the damage to be repaired. He says there 
has been no impact on his no-claims discount (NCD) but he was told his excess was non-
recoverable. 
Mr L says he wouldnt have claimed on his policy with UKI if he had known his excess fee 
wasnt going to be recovered. He says UKI shouldve informed him of the options available 
to him, which included claiming against his neighbours home insurance. 
UKI didnt agree to refund the £150 excess charge so Mr L referred his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She says Mr Ls policy terms require 
payment of the excess whenever a claim is made. She says he couldve pursued a claim 
directly with the third-party insurer. But she also says it wasnt known if this wouldve been 
successful and it would likely have taken longer.  
Mr L didnt think this was fair and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
Its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read Mr Ls policy terms to understand what he is expected to pay in relation to excess 
charges. The terms, under the section headed, Section B Damage to your car say:
What is not covered: We will not cover:
-the sum of all excesses shown on the schedule.
Under the section headed, How does your Fair Claim Commitment work? the terms say:
If your car is damaged as a result of a loss or damage covered under section B or C of your
policy, that has been caused by one of the following incident types, your No Claim Discount
(NCD) with us will not be affected: 
 If your car is hit by an object or debris (excluding vehicles).
When you claim you will have to pay your excess, which you can check on your policy 
schedule.
The inclusion of an excess fee is common practice across the insurance industry. This is the 
first part of the claim that the policyholder has to pay. It isnt an insured loss that the insurer 
is responsible for, which means its not a loss covered by the policy. The excess is payable 
even where the loss isnt the policyholders fault.  
Based on the terms I think its clear that Mr L is responsible for the excess charge detailed in 
his schedule when making a claim. His policy schedule says there is a £150  excess payable 
in these circumstances. So, I dont think UKI acted unfairly in requiring this payment. There 
has been no impact on Mr Ls NCD, which I also think is fair and in line with what the policy 
terms say.
I acknowledge Mr Ls view that UKI shouldve told him he could pursue a claim by contacting 
his neighbours buildings insurer. Also, that the third-party insurer didnt suggest this to his 
neighbour. I cant consider the actions of the third-party insurer in this complaint, so I wont 
comment further on this point. However, Mr L decided to make a claim through his motor 
insurance policy with UKI. It arranged for the repairs to his car under his policy.  
The records provided by UKI says it wasnt able to recoup any costs from the third party 
insurer.
I understand the point Mr L is making. But it isnt clear that a claim wouldve been successful 
had he pursued this via the third-party insurer. I agree with our investigators point that this 
was always an avenue that was available to Mr L. I dont think UKI was responsible for 
suggesting that he could approach his neighbours buildings insurer. It dealt with the claim 
according to its policy terms and arranged the repairs to Mr Ls car, which is what it was 
expected to do.   
The policy terms are clear that an excess fee is a payable when a claim is made. There is no 
dispute that Mr L had received his policy information prior to making his claim. This meant he 
had the opportunity to read the terms explaining the excess charges. So, I dont think UKI 
behaved unfairly in its decision not to refund the excess payment.
Having considered all of this I dont think UKI treated Mr L unfairly when relying on its policy 
terms and declining to refund the £150 excess charge. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do 
anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman