DRN-1786801
The complaint
Mr C complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (trading as Jacamo) were 
irresponsible lenders when it gave him a credit account and increased his credit limit several 
times. He also complains that it didnt do enough to help him when he experienced financial 
difficulties. 
What happened
In July 2017 Mr C opened a credit account with J D Williams. The account allowed him to 
pay for items he purchased in instalments rather than in one go. Mr Cs initial credit limit was 
£150 but over the course of the next five months J D Williams increased the credit limit five 
times. By December 2017, Mr Cs credit limit was £1200.
In early 2018 Mr C began to find himself struggling financially as he was off work sick. This 
led to Mr C missing several minimum monthly repayments. 
Mr C called J D Williams in August 2018 to discuss his payment difficulties, during the call 
Mr C says J D Williams agreed a repayment plan of £50 a month to bring the account out of 
arrears and start to reduce the balance. J D Williams also put a block on the account to stop 
Mr C buying anything else on credit. 
Mr C called JD Williams to arrange payment two days later. Mr C says he wanted to change 
the day on which his payment was made, and J D Williams increased the repayment plan 
instalments by £4 because of this.
Mr C continued to make monthly repayments of £54 towards his account balance. 
In August 2019 Mr C complained to J D Williams as he said it had been irresponsible lending 
to give him a credit account and increase his credit limit as it had. 
In its response, J D Williams said it had used up to date information from several sources 
including credit reference agencies before deciding to offer Mr C a credit account or increase 
his credit limit. It said Mr C also had the option of opting out of any credit limit increases. 
J D Williams continued by saying Mr C had placed several orders and generally kept up to 
date with payments, indicating he was able to manage his account and meet his payment 
obligations.  J D Williams acknowledged that Mr C had agreed a repayment plan due to 
financial difficulties, however it said once Mr Cs account was no longer in arrears, it told him 
he could start using his credit account again, but it didnt give him any further credit limit 
increases.
Mr C wasnt happy with J D Williams response, as he felt it should have frozen the interest 
on his account. He also said the additional £4 it charged towards the repayment plan caused 
him further financial difficulties. So, he brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator felt J D Williams had acted sympathetically towards Mr C when he found 
himself in financial difficulties, by agreeing to a repayment plan. He didnt feel J D Williams 
acted unreasonably by increasing the credit limit or by continuing to add interest to the 
account when the repayment plan was in place. Our investigator said he couldnt find any 
evidence the additional £4 was added simply because of the change in the repayment date.
Mr C didnt agree as he felt the £54 he had been paying had caused him further financial 
hardship. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr C was unable to work which led to some financial difficulties for him. 
I appreciate it must have been a difficult time. 
When considering if J D Williams have acted in a fair and reasonable way, Ive considered 
the rules it must follow as well as good industry practice. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr C, but I dont think J D Williams have acted unreasonably. And thats 
broadly for the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When Mr C took out his credit account with J D Williams Im satisfied it used up to date data 
to assess whether Mr C could afford to make repayments if he used the credit facility.  I can 
see J D Williams gave Mr C an initial credit limit of £150, which was much lower than its 
systems suggested Mr C could afford. J D Williams have said its system suggests a credit 
limit based on a range of information available to it, including the customers credit history. It 
didnt offer Mr C the maximum limit straight away, as it wanted to ensure Mr C could manage 
his account before offering him a higher limit.
I know Mr C is concerned J D Williams gave him a credit account despite the fact he had 
previously defaulted an account with them. However, just because someone has previously 
had an account defaulted, doesnt automatically mean they wouldnt be able to get credit in 
the future.  So, I dont think JD Williams acted unreasonably here.
As Mr Cs account was maintained within its limit and he made a payment well above the 
minimum payment, J D Williams increased his credit limit in August 2017 to £250. There 
continued to be monthly credit increases over the following four months and by December 
2017 Mr Cs credit limit was £1,200.
When a credit limit is increased businesses must conduct proportionate checks to ensure the 
credit it offers is affordable. But I dont think J D Williams did in this case. Ill explain why.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) says businesses must undertake a reasonable 
assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer when they enter into a credit agreement or 
if it significantly increases a credit limit. CONC goes on to say the increase itself does not 
have to be significant but if the cumulative increase is itself significant then an assessment 
must be done. 
J D Williams assessment of Mr Cs creditworthiness may have been reasonable when it 
initially agreed to provide a small amount of credit to him. However, I think when the credit 
limit was increased on the third occasion to £500 and beyond, it would have been 
reasonable for J D Williams to have carried out further checks to ensure it was affordable.
I asked J D Williams if it had ever asked Mr C for his income or if it had ever assessed his 
income and expenditure. J D Williams sent us a screen shot showing Mr Cs income was recorded on its system in August 2018 which was the year after it had increased his credit 
limit. This was the only evidence provided so, on balance, I dont think J D Williams 
assessed Mr Cs income and expenditure before significantly increasing his credit limit to 
ensure it remained affordable. And given that, Im not satisfied it acted fairly and reasonably.
My role isnt to punish a business if somethings gone wrong, its to decide whether the 
business needs to do anything else to put things right. And in a case like this, I must decide, 
on balance, what would have happened if J D Williams had properly assessed whether Mr C 
could afford the credit limit increases. 
In order for me to consider if the credit increases were affordable, I think Mr C would have to 
be able to repay more than the minimum repayment required had he used the increased 
credit limit straight away. The terms and conditions of Mr Cs account said the minimum 
repayments required were 4% of the total cash price of the goods Mr C had purchased on 
credit. So, when Mr Cs credit limit increased to £1,200 in December 2017, had he used all 
the credit available, the minimum repayments would have been about £48. 
We asked Mr C for his income and expenditure from around the time of the credit increases. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C but from the information Mr Cs given us 
as well as the information available to J D Williams through its credit checks. I think, on 
balance, the information would have shown the credit increases were affordable for Mr C at 
the time they were given.  
Mr Cs difficulties started in early 2018 when he said he was unable to make the minimum 
payments due to being off work and only able to claim sickness benefits. Im sorry to hear 
Mr C was unwell. However, I cant hold J D Williams responsible for Mr Cs financial 
difficulties at that time, as Mr C being unable to work wasnt something it could have 
foreseen. 
But once J D Williams was aware of Mr Cs financial difficulties, Id expect it to treat him fairly 
and sympathetically. When Mr C called J D Williams in August 2018 he had started working 
again. He says it agreed to a repayment plan of £50 a month and also placed a restriction on 
the account to stop Mr C buying anything else. However, when Mr C called back two days 
later to arrange payment for the plan, J D Williams said Mr C would have to pay £54 a 
month, an increase of £4. Mr C says the £4 was added as he wanted to change the payment 
date. However, Ive seen evidence that shows Mr Cs account was on a 28 day billing cycle 
which didnt change, so I dont think the added £4 was for that reason.
J D Williams says it doesnt have recordings of the calls from that time, but it thinks its likely 
on the day Mr C phoned to set up the payment plan, £54 was the closest figure to £50 that 
the arrangement could have been set up as. 
I cant say for certain why the plan was increased by £4. But I appreciate Mr Cs point that 
even £4 can make a large difference to someone in financial difficulties. However, I havent 
seen any evidence Mr C told J D Williams that £54 was unaffordable to him. Mr C made his 
payments every 28 days. Without anything to suggest Mr C was showing signs of further 
financial difficulties, I think J D Williams treated Mr C reasonably. 
Mr C would have liked J D Williams to stop the interest being added to his account once it 
knew he was in financial difficulties. However, J D Williams werent obliged to do so, and it 
came to an agreement with Mr C that enabled him to effectively repay his debt. The agreed 
payments were above the minimum payments and so he was paying back both the interest 
and reducing the outstanding debt. So, I think it acted fairly and sympathetically when 
arranging a payment plan. Payment plans are only ever a temporary measure, to help people during financial 
difficulties. In Mr Cs case after three months hed paid off the arrears from his account and 
continued to make payments over the minimum repayment required. J D Williams made the 
decision to remove the restrictions it had placed on Mr Cs account whist he was in arrears, 
so he could use his available credit again. 
Mr C feels J D Williams were irresponsible when it allowed him to start spending again. 
Whilst I think J D Williams should have again assessed Mr Cs income and expenditure to 
see what he could afford. Ultimately Mr C decided not to use any further credit from 
J D Williams, instead making all future purchases on a debit card. So, I wont uphold this part 
of Mr Cs complaint as I dont think he has suffered any financial loss by J D Williams 
removing the restrictions on his account. 
I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision but, whilst I agree that J D Williams could 
have done more to assess Mr Cs finances and the affordability of the credit it gave, 
ultimately I dont think it changed the outcome so I wont ask it to do anything more.   
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman