DRN-4408330
The complaint
Mr R complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds (RSA) delay and lack of 
communication when dealing with his claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Rs car was involved in an accident and, after reporting it to RSA, his car was taken into a 
garage for repairs. Mr R says he was initially informed the repairs would be completed in a 
few weeks - but after a few months of waiting and not being updated on the progress with 
repairs, he complained.  
RSA responded and explained the delay is down to current industry challenges. They said 
they could see Mr Rs car required parts to complete the repairs  and because parts are 
ordered direct from the manufacturer, theyre impacted by delays in parts being shipped to 
the UK. RSA said they cant therefore hold their repairer responsible as these delays are 
outside their control. They acknowledged Mr R wasnt provided with a like for like 
replacement car, but this is subject to availability and theres no entitlement to a like for like 
replacement. RSA accepted there had been a breakdown of communication and delays, so 
they offered £150 compensation. Mr R called RSA to say he wasnt happy with the 
compensation offered and this was then increased by £150, to a total of £300. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr R. He agreed RSA had made errors and thought 
RSAs offer of £300 was fair. Mr R disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided RSAs offer is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr R 
will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.
Firstly, Ive looked at the service given to Mr R. My role requires me to say how a complaint 
should be settled quickly and with minimal formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be 
the crux of the complaint and the main areas of dispute. The key facts about the complaint 
arent in dispute. RSA accept there were delays experienced by Mr R and they got things 
wrong with the lack of communication with Mr R. The only issue I have to decide is whether 
their offer of £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I think its right that RSA should compensate Mr R for the upset, frustration and 
inconvenience caused. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
should be, Ive looked at the errors by RSA and the impact it has had. 
RSA dont dispute Mr R has experienced delays. Ive looked at the claim notes and this 
shows parts were ordered within a reasonable timescale of the garage receiving Mr Rs car. 
The notes show around six weeks into the claim, RSA acknowledge there are delays in 
getting the parts required, and this is still the case around three weeks later. I can see RSA 
are chasing the garage to check on progress. A couple of months later, and still awaiting the 
parts, the garage looks at trying to source the parts from another supplier. The parts are then 
received a few weeks later  with the repairs being completed around six weeks later. 
I do acknowledge it was frustrating for Mr R to have to wait this long for the repairs to be 
completed, but I cant hold RSA responsible for factors outside their control. Its well 
publicised that the motor industry has been affected by changes over the last few years 
which has led to not only parts being in shorter supply, but also delays in getting parts 
shipped into the UK. In these circumstances we would expect insurers to take all reasonable 
steps, within their control, promptly. And in this case, given the parts were ordered within a 
reasonable timescale and RSA were chasing the garage for updates, I think RSA have taken 
all reasonable steps to try and get the parts required. 
Once the parts arrived, it did then take six weeks for the repairs to be completed but RSA 
explain, at this point, Mr Rs car had to go through various stages, for example, panel, paint, 
refit and clean. They say all of this is dependent on staffing levels and capacity as various 
cars move through the repair process. They say its not possible for a car to be repaired the 
same day the parts arrive due to these stages of repair, having to balance this with repairs to 
other cars and also with repairers already working at maximum capacity. Taking this all into 
account, I cant say RSA have acted unreasonably here. I do acknowledge the 
compensation theyve offered does take into account the impact of the delay on Mr R  and I 
think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Theres no dispute around the part of the complaint relating to the lack of communication. I 
can see Mr R had to chase RSA a number of times to chase progress and to get information 
on the likely completion date for the repairs. RSA accept Mr R wasnt kept updated, and its 
clear from the claim notes Mr R was becoming increasingly upset and frustrated. On 
occasions when Mr R chased RSA, they did provide an update, so I cant say Mr R was left 
throughout the whole period of the repairs without any updates or explanation for why things 
were taking longer than expected. That said, the updates werent always proactive, so I 
acknowledge Mr R was caused inconvenience in having to chase. 
I understand Mr R is also concerned about the delay in getting him a courtesy car and, when 
he did receive one, it wasnt like for like. I can see it took three weeks for Mr R to be given a 
replacement car. It does appear there was some initial delay as the garage didnt have any 
courtesy cars to offer Mr R and this was then outsourced to another company to arrange. I 
think its important to add, courtesy cars are subject to availability, and I can see RSA were 
chasing this. RSA explain, for the time Mr R was without a car, he received reimbursement 
of the costs he paid during this time. The claim notes show RSA looked at a loss of use 
claim. I do acknowledge the inconvenience caused to Mr R in not having a like for like car  
in particular, his car was electric, but the courtesy car was fuel. But the policy doesnt 
provide for a like for like replacement. RSA say their suppliers have little to no electric cars 
on their fleet, and at the time Mr R needed a courtesy car, their suppliers didnt have an 
electric car available.            
So, taking this all into account, there has been upset and frustration caused to Mr R together 
with inconvenience in having to chase RSA. The main factor which led to the repairs taking 
so long was down to the time taken for the parts to arrive, but I cant say these delays are 
directly attributable to RSA. They have acknowledged the impact of the delay on Mr R and 
its clear Mr R was upset and frustrated at the lack of communication and updates on 
progress. So, taking into consideration the impact on Mr R, I think RSAs offer of £300 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   I understand Mr R will be disappointed, and I do acknowledge why hes frustrated at the 
length of time it took for RSA to complete the repairs. But in the circumstances of this case, I 
cant hold RSA responsible for the delay as the main reason was down to the arrival of parts 
 and this was outside of RSAs control. I wish to reassure Mr R Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service.
My final decision
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited have already made an offer to pay £300 
compensation to settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay £300 to Mr R, if 
they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman