The complaint
Mr G has complained about the total loss settlement Markerstudy Insurance Company 
Limited paid when he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr G made a claim to his insurer, Markerstudy after being involved in an 
incident. It settled the claim as a total loss and paid Mr G the market value for his car. This 
was £21,400. 
Mr G complained as he believed his car was worth around £29,000. But Markerstudy didnt 
uphold his complaint. It said it had relied on the motor trade guides in line with the policy and 
paid a fair settlement sum. 
Mr G told us he insured his vehicle with Markerstudy for an insured price of £27,000. He 
provided examples of adverts for similar cars to his for sale in the region of £29,000.
Our investigator explained our approach for these types of complaints: that we find the 
guides more reliable than adverts. The investigator checked all of the available main motor 
trade guides for a valuation of Mr Gs car. He found an additional trade guide with a higher 
valuation. So he found that the average of the three available guides gave a market 
valuation of £23,243. He therefore recommended Mr Gs complaint should be upheld and for 
Markerstudy to increase the settlement it paid by £1,843. He thought Markerstudy should 
pay interest on the difference from the date it paid the original claim amount to the date it 
pays the £1,843 at a rate of 8% simple interest a year. 
Mr G thought the increase was still too low. Markerstudy didnt agree. It said it doesnt 
recognise the trade guide we included. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation. But we look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. Mr Gs policy isnt an agreed value policy. These are 
specialised polices where a customer can insure their vehicle for an agreed sum. His policy 
with Markerstudy says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of the 
vehicle at the time of loss. It says an engineer will assess the market value in conjunction 
with published trade guides. 
DRN-1201701We find the main motor trade guides more reliable as they are based on national data and 
likely selling prices for a car of the same make, model, age, condition and mileage as Mr 
Gs. We find advertisements less reliable. They can vary widely and tend to have a margin 
for the seller to negotiate the price downward.
Markerstudy paid the average of two of the main trade guide valuations. However, we look at 
all four main motor trade guides. One of the four didnt provide a valuation. But a third  
which Markerstudy didnt use  provided a valuation of £27,352. The remaining two 
valuations came to £18,850 and £23,527. So although there is a large gap between the 
lowest and highest valuation, the gap between them and the middle valuation is about the 
same. So we wouldnt discount any of the guides as being out of kilter with the others. 
Markerstudys policy says it will consider published trade guides. But it told us it doesnt 
consider the guide we looked at. It hasnt given a reason why. So I dont think Markerstudy 
has been reasonable in reaching it valuation for Mr Gs car. 
Putting things right
I think Markerstudy should increase the valuation to the average of all of the available guides 
which is £23,243. And as Mr G has been without this sum since the date of the original 
settlement on 24 July 2019, I think Markerstudy should pay interest on the difference of 
£1,843 at 8% simple interest a year from this date to the date it pays him.
This means Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate that the increase is less than Mr G 
wanted. But this is in line with our approach as to what is fair and reasonable for valuation 
complaints. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr G £1,843 as the difference in the market 
value for his car. 
Markerstudy should pay interest in this amount from 24 July 2019 to the date it pays Mr G at 
a rate of 8% simple interest a year. 
If Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman