DRN-3169376
The complaint
Mr K complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc hasnt helped him whilst in financial difficulties.
What happened
Mr K says he and his ex-wife took out a Sainsburys loan which he is repaying. He says he is 
in financial difficulties and asked Sainsburys for help. Mr K says Sainsburys has only 
offered solutions that would affect his credit file. He would like Sainsburys to extend the loan 
term and questions why it is not asking his ex-wife to repay the loan. 
Sainsburys accepts giving Mr K incorrect information when he first approached it. It has 
apologised and paid compensation for that part of the complaint and says this was joint loan 
that both parties are liable for. Sainsburys says it has offered to help Mr K, but he didnt wish 
to take an option that affected his credit file. It says it suggested Mr K apply for a loan in his 
own name and says Mr Ks ex-wife refused to vary the loan terms.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and provided us with background to his relationship with his 
ex-wife as well as information about his health position. Our investigator thought overall that 
Mr K had agreed to the loan terms and conditions which meant both he and his ex-wife were 
jointly and severally liable for the loan. And that Sainsburys couldnt vary the loan terms 
without Mr Ks ex-wifes permission.
Mr K doesnt accept that view and says his circumstances are not being considered. He 
maintains Sainsburys is not asking his ex-wife to pay her share of the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr K will be disappointed by my decision. I also appreciate that Mr K has 
provided us with personal information about his position which I have considered but for the 
reasons I will explain, I cant fairly ask Sainsburys to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Sainsburys provided Mr K with misleading information when he approached it 
about his position. I can see Sainsburys has apologised for that mistake and paid 
compensation. I dont intend to comment further on that part of the complaint as I can see 
that is not Mr Ks main complaint and that I think in any event Sainsburys has paid an 
appropriate compensation amount.
Im satisfied Mr Ks complaint here is about Sainsburys failure to restructure his loan to allow 
him to reduce his monthly repayments. Banks and building societies must treat customers in 
financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. I can see that Sainsburys did try and help 
Mr K by allowing a payment freeze and by offering short term plans. I appreciate Mr K didnt 
wish to take any option that would mean his credit file would be affected but I think 
Sainsburys did offer appropriate help and so acted positively and sympathetically. I also 
think Sainsburys fairly offered to and did speak to Mr Ks ex-wife about varying the length of 
the loan. And suggested Mr K make an application for a loan in his sole name which could 
have meant different loan terms.
I appreciate Mr K questions why he is liable for the loan in total and why Sainsburys isnt 
asking his ex-wife to pay her share. Im satisfied this was a joint loan taken out in joint 
names which means both Mr K and his ex-wife are jointly and severally liable for it. That 
means that the loan is not split between them and it is not the case each owes Sainsburys 
half of the loan. So, Im satisfied that Sainsburys hasnt made a mistake by asking Mr K to 
repay the loan and of course if the loan wasnt repaid then no doubt it would ask both parties 
to repay it. I also think it would be for Mr K and his ex-wife to seek agreement, if possible as 
part of any divorce settlement, on the loan responsibility.
I can see that Sainsburys did fairly try and help Mr K by approaching his ex-wife and asking 
her if she would agree to vary the terms of the loan. She wouldnt agree to do so and so I 
dont think Sainsburys could have varied the loan terms without such agreement.
Overall, I am very sorry to read about the background information Mr K has provided us with. 
But I cant fairly order Sainsburys to vary the terms of a loan agreement in circumstances 
where one party to it has refused. I appreciate Mr K will consider that unfair, but I have 
explained that I think Sainsburys has done what it can to try and help Mr Ks position. No 
doubt Mr K will approach Sainsburys to discuss the options it says are available to him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman