DRN-1744839
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 1999. Miss W says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
her the PPI.
What happened
Miss W bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card. The sale took 
place by way of a postal application. The policy cost £0.70 per £100 of the outstanding 
monthly balance and provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also 
provided life cover.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint because they didnt feel Miss W was given clear 
enough information about the policys cost and benefits. Barclays didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ws case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss W, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss W got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Barclays has provided us with a copy of Miss Ws credit card application form. Within the 
application form, theres a section for the PPI. In this section, Miss W was asked to tick a box 
if she wanted the PPI added to her credit card. While I can see that Miss W ticked the yes 
box for the PPI, I cant see that section made any mention of the benefits of the PPI or its 
cost.
In cases where I think theres been an information failing, I have to think about whether the 
consumer would have done something differently had they been given the information they 
needed to decide if the PPI was right for them. In this case I think Miss W would have done 
something different if clearer information had been provided. Ill explain why.
Miss W told us she had been in full time employment with the same employer for many 
years when the PPI was sold to her. She said she was still working for that employer now. 
She said she would have received at least six months months worth of sick pay from her 
employer if she was too unwell to work. In addition to this, Miss W said she had at least six 
months worth of pay in savings.Having thought about what Miss W has told us about her  circumstances at the time of sale, I 
think that her sick pay along with her savings shows, as shes said, that she didnt need PPI. 
Based on what Ive seen I think Miss W could have managed without the PPI for long 
enough not to really need it. Had Barclays given her all the information about the policy cost 
and its benefits, I dont think Miss W would have considered it good value for money or a 
useful thing to have, in her circumstances, given her other means. So, I think Miss W has 
lost out because of what Barclays did wrong.
It follows that I think the PPI was mis-sold.
putting things right
Barclays should put Miss W in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.  Barclays should find out how much Miss W would owe on her credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Miss W owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Miss W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.  If  when Barclays works out what Miss W would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss W paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss W paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Miss W would have owed Barclays something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 
8% a year from then on.
C.  Barclays should tell Miss W what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ws complaint.Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman