DRN-3301914
The complaint
Ms M complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company avoided her motor insurance 
policy, refused to pay her claim and is looking to recover the costs it paid on the third partys 
claim.
What happened
Ms M took out a car insurance policy with Southern Rock through a price comparison site.
The policy was arranged by a broker. The policy was later renewed for a year, and when
Ms M was involved in an accident, she tried to make a claim.
Southern Rock said when she took out the policy, shed answered the question it asked
about motoring offences incorrectly. It says she also failed to disclose her motoring offences
when her policy was renewed. It considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying
misrepresentation, which it said entitled it to decline her claim and avoid her policy. And, as it
was required to settle the third-party claim made against Ms M, it kept the premium shed
already paid.
Ms M brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. They
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation, but they didnt think it was deliberate
or reckless. They believed it was careless. Our investigator said Southern Rock was entitled
to avoid Ms Ms policy and decline her claim, but that it should return the premium shed
paid.
Southern Rock doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans
decision. It said it would expect Ms M to remember receiving her offences, as receiving so
many within a relatively short space of time would be quite memorable.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 January 2022 where I said: 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Southern Rock said Ms M disclosed an SP50 motoring offence in her application but failed to
disclose three SP30 offences. Two of which she had at the inception of the policy and a third
she received during the initial policy term and before her policy renewed. Ms M doesnt
agree, she acknowledges receiving two SP30 offences but disputes the SP50 stated in the
policy documentation and one other SP30.
Ive asked Ms M to provide evidence to show she only had two offences recorded against
her during this period, but she hasnt been able to. Southern Rock says their agents
confirmed the offences during a conference telephone call with the DVLA, and its provided
evidence of its internal notes following this phone call. The notes indicate Ms M had three
SP30 offences at the time the claim was made and gives the specific dates they were
received. I think its likely Ms M mistakenly stated she had an SP50 offence in her
application, as such I havent considered it. But Im persuaded she had two SP30 motoring
offences at inception, and this increased to three by the time her policy was renewed.
Southern Rock thinks Ms M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation
because she didnt disclose all her motoring offence in the last five years.
Ive looked at the questions Ms M was asked when she applied for the policy online. She
was asked for any motoring convictions or offences  including fixed penalties  in the last
five years, and I think this was a clear question. Whether this was done in error or not, Ms M
made mention of an offence but failed to mention the others at inception.
Ms M had a further opportunity to disclose the offences when her policy was renewed. The
renewal documentation asks her to check whether the details were correct and to inform
Southern Rock if they werent. Ms M had a responsibility to check and ensure the details it
held for her were correct, but I dont find she did.
Ms M says she didnt have an SP50 offence, so I think the fact one was recorded in her
policy documentation should have prompted her to check her records and this would have
brought the other offences to her attention. At the very least, I think it should have prompted
her to query it with Southern Rock, but I cant see that she did. So, I dont think Ms M took
reasonable care not to misrepresent information.
Ive considered whether Southern Rock would have done anything differently if it was aware
of all Ms Ms motoring offences and I think it would. It provided evidence of its underwriting
criteria, and I find it would still have covered Ms M at inception but would have charged her a
higher premium. However, Im satisfied its criteria shows that if Ms M had disclosed all her
motoring offences when her policy was due for renewal, it would not have offered her cover.
This means Im satisfied the misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Ms Ms representative says Southern Rock still agreed to cover Ms M under another policy it
underwrites and so feels the risk was acceptable to it. While I understand her thoughts her, I
dont agree. Southern Rock are the underwriters, but the new policy is provided by a
different insurance broker and is an entirely separate policy to the one Ms M had previously.
So, I dont think they should be compared. And, from the paperwork Ms M provided, I cant
see the speeding offences were disclosed on the new policy either.
Southern Rock thinks Ms Ms misrepresentation was deliberate. It says she was aware she
needed to disclose motoring offences because she disclosed an SP50 offence in her
application. It doesnt think she would have forgotten having received her other offences. But
I dont agree that Ms Ms misrepresentation was deliberate.
A misrepresentation is considered reckless or deliberate if the consumer:
knew the information they provided was untrue or misleading or did not care whether 
it was untrue or misleading; andknew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Ms M says she hadnt realised she received these motoring offences. She explained that
she travels frequently so has an administrator sort through her paperwork, and the
correspondence from DVLA wasnt brought to her attention. I dont think this is an
unreasonable explanation. As such, Im satisfied Ms Ms misrepresentation was accidental. I
understand she had a further opportunity when the policy renewed and had a responsibility
to check and ensure the information provided was accurate, but she didnt. However, I dont
think this means Ms M knew the information shed provided was untrue nor does it suggest
she didnt care if it was.
As Im satisfied it should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the actions Southern Rock
can take in accordance with CIDRA. As I mentioned earlier, its underwriting criteria
suggests it would have covered Ms M at inception, so I dont think it could avoid the policy
back to its inception date. However, I find the criteria shows it wouldnt have provided Ms M
cover at renewal. In such circumstances, CIDRA says an insurer can avoid the policy, treat it
as though it never existed from the point of avoidance and not deal with any claims.
While I think Ms Ms misrepresentation should be dealt with as careless, Im satisfied
Southern Rock was still entitled to avoid her policy back to its renewal date. And, as this
means that her policy can be treated as though it never existed, Im satisfied it does not have
to deal with her claim for the damage to her car. However, CIDRA says when there has been
a careless misrepresentation, the insurer should return any unused premiums the consumer
paid. But it says the insurer may also look to recover any costs its paid to a third party on
any claim after the misrepresentation.
Southern Rock had initially sort to recover its costs for the third party claim it settled. But it
has since closed its file on this claim, and it says a full refund of the premium would be
made, if the costs it incurred in settling the claim are refunded in full. As Southern Rock
settled the third partys claim and is no longer seeking to recover its costs from Ms M, I find
Ms M has benefitted from the cover the policy provided, so I wont interfere with its decision
here.
Considering all this, Im not persuaded Ms Ms misrepresentation should be treated as
deliberate, but rather careless. And had it been, I find the remedies available to Southern
Rock are the same. So, Im satisfied its decision to avoid Ms Ms policy and decline her claim
was fair and I wont ask it to do anything differently.
Ms M and Southern Rock both responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision and neither provided further comments for 
me to consider, I see no reason to depart from it.My final decision
For the reason set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman