DRN-3848078
The complaint
Mr F is complaining about Capital Com (UK) Limited (CC) closing contract for difference 
(CFD) trading positions that he didnt want to close.
What happened
Mr F opened some long positions in a certain stock, A, in June 2021. He continued to trade 
in A over the following months. On 6 August 2021, Mr F wanted to open some short 
positions in A. He went on to the platform and clicked sell, thinking this would open a short 
position. He confirmed the sale but when he checked his account, he couldnt see a short 
position, so he tried again. After the second attempt, he realised that instead of opening a 
short position hed closed 200 units of his long positions. 
Mr F was upset about this and contacted CC the next day. In response, CC told Mr F that 
the platform has two trading modes  a normal mode and a hedging mode. A customer 
has to use hedging mode to open a short position on a stock they already hold a long 
position on. CC told Mr F he should have seen an alert which would have warned him that 
the sell instruction would close his long positions. But Mr F said he hadnt seen any such 
notification.
After further investigation, CC apologised and said thered been a problem with their 
systems at the time which had meant that the alert hadnt popped up. They offered Mr F a 
refund of £233.72  an amount which represents the difference between the price at which 
he inadvertently sold the units and the price at which he bought 200 more of the same units 
(on 6 August and 10 August). 
Mr F wasnt happy with CCs offer so he brought his complaint to our service. He was upset 
that hed closed positions that he hadnt wanted to close and lost around £4,000 in doing so. 
He said all he wanted was for CC to re-open the positions hed inadvertently closed and 
wasnt happy with the refund. He also said that CC had chosen to close the positions which 
would give them most profit  noting that he had other open long positions which would have 
left him with a smaller loss if closed.
Our investigator looked into the matter and said she felt CCs offer was fair. She said it was 
Mr Fs responsibility to understand the features of his account. And she said it was difficult to 
say how things would have turned out if Mr F had been able to do things differently. Mr F 
disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case  so it 
came to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After reviewing the complaint, I didnt fully agree with our investigator. So I issued a 
provisional decision on 7 December 2022. In this I said:
As CC have said, there should have been an alert when Mr F went to try to open short 
positions. Its their fault that there wasnt, and so Ill think about what would have 
happened if things hadnt gone wrong and the alert had appeared as it should have. The 
alert that should have appeared says: You have an open position on this instrument in 
the opposite direction. Selling it will close it in full or partially. Im persuaded that Mr F 
didnt want to close his open positions  and so, had there been an alert, I dont think he 
would have done. 
I asked Mr F what hed have done if he hadnt inadvertently closed the long positions. He 
said hed been planning to open a short position for at least the quantity of the long 
positions and then close the long position later. But he acknowledged that this was with 
the benefit of hindsight. He also said he thought hed have still opened the additional long 
positions in A on 6 August and 10 August  saying they werent intended to replace the 
ones hed inadvertently closed. 
Looking at Mr Fs trading history, I dont think he would have opened significant quantities 
of short positions if the alert had appeared. CC told Mr F the next day (on 7 August) that 
he needed to use hedging mode to hold opposite positions, and explained how to do this. 
So Mr F had all the information he needed at this point but didnt open any short positions 
until January 2022. When Mr F did eventually open short positions in A in January 2022, 
he only held them for a day or two rather than waiting for larger market movements. So 
Im inclined to say theres no need to factor additional short positions into any potential 
redress. 
Thinking about the inadvertent closure, I can see Mr F crystallised a substantial loss 
because of it. He sold 200 units for around 31.5 cents which hed bought for nearly 58 
cents  a loss of over $5,200 or nearly £3,800. However, although the unit price of A 
recovered a little later in the year, it dropped significantly from December 2021 onwards. 
Mr F still held over 1,700 open long positions in A when the account was closed in May 
2022  these were sold at a price of just 10.33 cents. So, if Mr F hadnt closed the 
positions in August 2021, its likely they wouldnt have been closed until May 2022. At that 
point the units would have lost a further 20 cents in value and Mr Fs total losses would 
have been even more.
Ive also thought about Mr Fs comment that CC chose to close the positions that gave 
them the biggest profit and himself the biggest loss. When I asked CC why this was, they 
said the platform follows a first in first out system unless the client selects the specific 
trade to be closed. This seems in contrast to the Execution Policy set out in CCs terms 
and conditions which says: If there are no specific instructions from the Client on how to 
execute the order, we will consider several execution factors to ensure that we manage 
the order on terms most favourable to our Client.
I havent looked further into this however, as a smaller loss on the closure of these 
positions would likely have led to a larger loss when closing other positions in A. By 
taking a first in first out approach, CC would at least have minimised the level of overnight 
charges paid by Mr F.
So, in summary, Im inclined to say CCs error (in not displaying the alert) hasnt caused 
Mr F any financial loss  his losses might well have been larger had he not closed the 
positions inadvertently.
CC have offered Mr F £233.72. They explained this is effectively what it cost Mr F to 
replace the long positions he inadvertently closed. Although I appreciate Mr Fs said that 
wasnt his intention in opening further long positions, Im still inclined to say its fair for CC 
to pay this amount to Mr F - it reflects the fact that their error caused Mr F some inconvenience and upset. I dont think they need to pay Mr F any more though  the 
matter was resolved quickly. 
CC accepted my decision but Mr F didnt. He explained that he didnt open any short 
positions until January 2022 because, having experienced problems when he first tried to 
open short positions, he was anxious that this might happen again. He reiterated that it had 
been his intention to open more short positions, and that this would have helped reduce his 
overall losses. 
Whilst I can understand Mr Fs nervousness, the email from CC on 7 August 2021 clearly 
explained what had gone wrong, and gave step-by-step instructions on how Mr F could open 
the short positions he wanted to. So Im satisfied CC did everything they could to help Mr F 
get into the position he wanted to be in  it wouldnt be fair to ask CC to compensate Mr F 
further simply because he became nervous about trading. 
Mr F also commented on CCs adoption of a first in first out approach  saying Based on 
your observation here, I would like you to request you to take a note that they have violated 
their terms just because some other scenario caused me a smaller loss doesnt excuse 
this breach 
I can understand Mr Fs view here, but I havent investigated this matter in any detail so I 
cant say for sure that CC have violated their terms  Ive just commented on what appears 
to have happened at first glance. Thats because were not a regulator and its not our role to 
fine businesses  instead we focus on informal dispute resolution and putting consumers 
back in the position they would have been in if things hadnt gone wrong.
So Mr Fs comments havent changed my view, and my decision is the same as I set out in 
my provisional decision.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Capital Com (UK) Limited need to pay Mr F £233.72.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman