DRN-3686015
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complained that there would be a balance remaining on a secured loan 
account they held with Mars Capital Finance Limited at the end of the loan term.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out this secured loan in March 2007 over a 15-year term. The loan was 
originally taken out with a different lender and has then been sold on. Mars took on the loan 
in May 2019.
Mr and Mrs F previously got into financial difficulties and at the time the loan was passed to 
Mars in May 2019 there were arrears on the account which Mr and Mrs F were making 
additional monthly payments towards.
Since May 2019 Mr and Mrs F paid an additional £200 most months on top of their normal 
contractual monthly payment.
In February 2021 Mrs F spoke to Mars to ask whether the arrears had been cleared. She 
was told that theyd need to make the higher payment for February, then a slightly lower 
payment in March and then from April 2021 their payments would revert to the normal 
contractual monthly payment. The direct debit was automatically adjusted to meet those 
payments.
After receiving a statement of the account, Mrs F phoned to complain on 16 August 2021 as 
the statement showed they still owed around £11,000 with only seven months left to run.
Mars responded to the complaint in October 2021. It said it was aware of the issue of the 
loan payments not being recalculated by the previous loan company and was working to 
remediate it. However, as Mr and Mrs Fs loan term was due to end in March 2022 it was 
unlikely to have completed the remediation project by then. It apologised for not contacting 
Mr and Mrs F over the time it had held the loan to discuss increasing the monthly payments 
and said it would pay £200 compensation for that.
Mr and Mrs F referred the complaint to our service, and then redeemed the loan in 
December 2021.
Our investigator said Mars shouldnt have told Mrs F in February 2021 that the payments 
would be lowered as there was still a substantial balance outstanding at that time. He said if 
Mrs F hadnt been told that then he felt the higher payments would have still been made. He 
said Mars should recalculate the account as if the higher monthly payments were maintained 
until August 2021, but after that Mr and Mrs F were on notice of the error so could have 
made the higher payments from September 2021 if they wanted to. He said that Mars should 
refund the difference between what Mr and Mrs F paid to redeem the account and what they 
would instead have paid, plus pay 8% simple interest on that resulting sum from the date the 
loan was redeemed until the date of settlement.
Mr and Mrs F accepted his assessment. Mars, despite acknowledging receipt of our 
investigators assessment and multiple chasers from this service, didnt respond. As we cant 
keep cases in abeyance indefinitely the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Historically Mr and Mrs F had been struggling to pay their loan but in recent years theyd  
most months - not only maintained their monthly payments but theyd paid extra towards the 
arrears.
The figures on the loan agreement are based on a person paying all of the contractual 
monthly repayments in full and on time and no fees or charges being added. Clearly that 
didnt happen here as Mr and Mrs F have been in arrears. As interest is constantly being 
charged this means its not as simple as making up a missed payment, theres also the extra 
interest incurred for every day that payment is overdue. This interest can add up 
significantly.
Mars has said it knew from when it took over the book of loan accounts from the previous 
loan company in May 2019 about the issue of payments not being set at a level sufficient to 
ensure the loans would be repaid by the end of the term. It also said it hadnt told 
Mr and Mrs F about the issue. It has apologised for that and said it would pay £200 
compensation. So Ive considered whether that is enough.
Ive carefully considered whether I think Mr and Mrs F would have been able to make higher 
payments and Im not persuaded they would have been in a position to do so. Having 
reviewed the transactions on the account, along with the contact notes, I can see 
Mr and Mrs F couldnt always make the higher payment that they had agreed to pay, so it 
seems unlikely that they could have comfortably sustained an even higher payment each 
month for that two year period if theyd been aware of the need for it.
That said, I agree with Mars and our investigator that Mars could have let Mr and Mrs F 
know what was happening. Having considered everything I agree that the £200 
compensation already offered by Mars is fair for this omission.
From there Ive considered what happened in February 2021 when Mars reduced the 
amount the direct debit was due to collect. Having considered everything, I uphold this part 
of the complaint. 
Ive no reason to believe that Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have maintained their existing higher 
payment if theyd been told that it was needed. Theyd been paying that sum on a regular 
basis for a number of years and, having considered everything, Mars hasnt given me any 
reason to think Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have continued to have done so but for Mars reducing 
the direct debit payment following the February 2021 call.
However, I agree with our investigator that Mr and Mrs F were put on notice in August 2021 
that just the contractual monthly payments wouldnt be enough to repay the loan on time and 
so they could have increased their payment back up to the higher amount from September 2021. For that reason I dont find Mars liable for the fact lower payments were made from 
September 2021 until the loan was redeemed in December 2021.
In summary, in respect of this part of the complaint, I find Mars is liable for the reduced 
payments between March and August 2021 (inclusive) as Im satisfied Mr and Mrs F would 
have continued paying at their existing higher level but for the February 2021 phone call and 
Mars reducing the direct debit mandate collection amount.
This should be treated in the same way as wed look at a mortgage underfunding case. That 
is, the business should change the account balance to what it would be if the correct 
payments had been made (in this case, thats the existing higher payments Mr and Mrs F 
had been making) for the period between March and August 2021 (inclusive).
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint I order Mars Capital Finance Limited to:
Calculate what the balance of Mr and Mrs Fs account would have been at 
redemption if theyd continued to pay £630 a month between March and August 2021 
(inclusive). Refund to Mr and Mrs F the difference between what they paid at 
redemption and the revised redemption amount as calculated, plus 8% simple 
interest * on that amount from the date of redemption to the date of settlement.
Pay £200 compensation as offered in its response to the complaint (if not already 
paid).
* Mars may deduct income tax from this element of my award, if it considers it should do so. 
But it should give Mr and Mrs F the necessary paperwork for them to reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if theyre entitled to do so, if they ask for it.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Mars Capital Finance Limited to resolve it as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman