DRN-3443296
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice he received from Quilter Wealth Ltd (Quilter). Hes said that 
he believes he was sold unnecessary products. This complaint relates to the advice Mr B 
received to switch his pension to a new provider to invest via a Discretionary Fund Manager 
(DFM). 
What happened
This complaint relates to the switch of Mr Bs pension to invest via a DFM. Mr and Mrs B 
attended meetings together and shes made submissions to this service on Mr Bs behalf, so 
Ive referred to both Mr and Mrs B within this decision. 
Mr and Mrs B originally met with Quilters adviser in November 2018. An authority to proceed 
form was signed by both on 13 November 2018. This confirmed that certain documents had 
been provided and the costs associated with the advice. The flat fee for the advice was 
£17,000. The premium plus ongoing service had been selected; this was to be paid for by 
way of a fund-based fee of 0.6% a year. In relation to Mr Bs pension this was calculated to 
equate to around £3,600 per year, dependent on any fluctuations in the fund value. 
On the same day, an attitude to risk questionnaire was completed for both Mr and Mrs B. 
The following statements and responses were noted: 
People who know me would describe me as a cautious person. Agree. 
I feel comfortable about investing in the stock market. Agree. 
I generally look for safer investments, even if that means lower returns. Agree. 
Usually it takes me a long time to make up mind on investment decisions. Agree. 
I associate the word Risk with the idea of Opportunity. Disagree. 
I generally prefer bank deposits to riskier investments. Disagree. 
I find investments matters easy to understand. Disagree. 
Im willing to take substantial investment risk to earn substantial returns. Strongly 
disagree. 
Ive little experience of investing in stocks and shares. Disagree. 
I tend to be anxious about the investments decisions Ive made. Disagree. 
Id rather take my chances with higher risk investments than increase the amount Im 
saving. Disagree. 
Im concerned by the volatility of stockmarket investments. Agree. 
Based on this the adviser concluded they were balanced investors. This was qualified by: 
Balanced investors typically have modest levels of knowledge about financial 
matters. They may have some experience of investment in riskier assets.
In general, Balanced investors prefer not to take much risk with their investments, but 
will do so to an extent. They prefer lower risk assets, but realise riskier investments 
are likely to give better longer term returns.
Balanced investors can take some time to make up their mind on financial matters 
and can often suffer from regret when decisions turn out badly.
On 25 January 2019, Quilter issued an invoice for Financial advice in relation to investment 
and pension advice. The invoice was for £17,000. On the same date a suitability report was 
issued. 
Quilter recommended that Mr B switch his existing pension (capped drawdown) to another 
provider to utilise the services of a DFM. Amongst other things the suitability report 
confirmed that: 
We discussed and agreed the charge payable for this advice is a fixed fee of 
£17,000. This fee includes both investment and pension advice. I will address the 
investment advice under a separate report.
The report then set out the services the fee covers including; initial and subsequent 
meetings, data gathering and analysis, planning report and advice and the arrangement of 
the pension. 
It confirmed that a regular review service would be provided and that the cost of that would 
be covered by ongoing charges, an annual charge of 0.6%. 
Mr Bs objectives were listed as:
Review the most tax efficient way to draw your current level of income
Review your funds to establish if they remain suitable for your ATR and Capacity for Loss
Review your plan to determine whether it still meets your needs
Benefit from a discretionary manager monitoring your portfolio
Quilter recommended the following strategies: 
Quilter Cheviot Conservative Strategy  99.50%
Quilter Investors Cirilium Balanced R Acc  0.50%
In relation to charges the report says: 
I have compared the charging structure of the proposed plan with your existing plan 
and the charges in my recommended plan are slightly higher than those that applied 
to your old plan. The Reduction In Yield (an expression of the total charges over the 
term of the plan) is 1.29% compared with 1.75% in the new plan.
In effect this would mean that the new plan will need to be 0.46% better each year to 
achieve the same result.
The total charges applicable to Mr Bs then existing plan were 1.29% per year and the new 
arrangement would cost 1.75% per year. Based on Mr Bs fund value this could amount to a 
difference of just under £3,000 per year. These amounts didnt take into account the ongoing 
advice charges. Taking these into account the report said that:
The total charges including those of the provider, the fund and my advice charges, 
will reduce the fund growth by a net 2.40% per annum on your plan to your proposed 
retirement date based on the current amount invested.
In relation to income drawdown the report noted: We have discussed this and you do not require an income from your pension at 
present and you will instead draw £400 from your investments going forward to cover 
the income you were receiving as this is more tax efficient than drawing from your 
pension due to your tax status.
At the time of the advice, Mr B was 81 and he had a monthly income of around £4,000 from 
a combination of occupational pension scheme benefits, existing annuities, his state pension 
and his capped drawdown plan. Quilter has recorded him as being in good health, Mr and 
Mrs B dispute this and say that he had numerous health issues at the time, of which the 
adviser was aware. 
Background to the complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained to Quilter about this and some other advice. This complaint is only 
about the switch of Mr Bs pension, so thats what Ive focused on within this decision. Quilter 
issued its final response letter; it didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Unhappy with its 
response, they referred their complaint to this service. 
During the course of our investigations. Mrs B told us: 
Mr B wasnt in good health around the time of the advice. 
Although the adviser appears to have acknowledged that Mr B was a vulnerable 
client, the extent of his vulnerability wasnt taken into account. 
During the meeting of 25 January 2019, the adviser was fully aware of Mr Bs health 
problems. 
Mrs B wasnt an experienced investor, the assets in her name were inherited and 
included a portfolio of shares and a rental property. On this basis, she disputes the 
advisers comment in his letter of 25 January 2019, that she was able to help Mr B 
with making decisions. She didnt have sufficient knowledge and understanding of 
financial matters to do so. 
Mr and Mrs B kept their finances separate and Mrs B had no understanding of what 
Mr B had done in the past. 
The situation continues to cause both Mr and Mrs B considerable stress at a time 
when their priority ought to be Mr Bs health. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld, and 
that Quilter should compensate Mr B in full for any losses resultant from what he thought 
was unsuitable advice.
Mr B accepted our investigators conclusions. Quilter didnt accept the view and made further 
submissions. Ive considered its submissions in their entirety, here Ive only included a brief 
summary of what I consider to be its key points:
The complaint is about the charges incurred; the focus of the complaint isnt the 
suitability of the advice.
The assessment of the suitability of the advice is flawed, and the assessment of the 
complainants needs is at odds with contemporaneous evidence provided. 
The security of Mr Bs financial position wasnt compromised. 
The advice met Mr Bs objectives and alleviated the amount of monitoring the 
pension required. 
Mr Bs health issues hadnt materialised at the time of the advice. 
The complainant benefitted from a tailored DFM and the recommended redress didnt 
account for the charges.Our investigator issued a further view in response to the issues raised by Quilter briefly, he 
found: 
Mr and Mrs Bs concerns clearly went beyond just the fees they were charged, their 
complaint form states [advisers name] stressed the need to change our pensions, 
investments etc. and the charges are insane. We trusted [advisers name] to give 
advice based on our circumstances. We feel he was making work for the sake of it.
The suitability of the advice Quilter gave is in question and, in any case, our remit is 
inquisitorial. 
The fact that advice wasnt covered by Quilters ongoing service is relevant.
He identified that there were two instances of advice here given at different times and 
relating to different products 1) advice to transfer Mr Bs pension; and 2) the 
inheritance tax (IHT) advice given to both Mr and Mrs B. 
On this basis, the two events would need to be dealt with as two separate 
complaints. 
He accepted the switch didnt result in Mr B having a different type of product, it was 
just the provider and the use of a DFM that changed. 
The use of a DFM did reduce the burden to Mr and Mrs B but it came at a significant 
cost, whilst the costs were clearly disclosed to them, this doesnt justify the advice. 
The circumstances didnt support the use of a DFM being suitable. Mr Bs income 
needs were comfortably met by his collective pension arrangements. Theres no 
evidence Mr Bs pensions were invested in irregular or unusual funds  or that he 
had any desire to invest in such investments  so, there wasnt a need for Mr Bs 
pension to be monitored in a way that was beyond the capabilities of his financial 
adviser. 
Little justification was given by Quilter for the increased cost associated with the use 
of a DFM. It only said: Your investments will be held in a portfolio managed by a 
discretionary management service which provides greater flexibility and control in 
terms of the implementation and management of your investment. 
Mr B had no need for greater flexibility and control, this wasnt one of the listed 
financial objectives and his income needs were already comfortably met  whilst 
Mr B wouldve wanted to maintain growth and good performance  the costs of the 
DFM were unjustified and unsuitable. 
Quilter disagreed. It maintained that the advice complained about was clearly suitable. Its 
position was that wed disregarded the contemporaneous evidence and instead formulated 
an opinion based on hindsight. 
Our investigator explained that because Quilter disagreed the case would be referred to an 
ombudsman for a decision. Mr B expressed his disappointment with this. He reiterated that 
he felt that he was given advice for things he didnt need. He also highlighted that this 
situation was causing him significant distress. 
I sent my provisional decision explaining why I thought Mr Bs complaint should be upheld to 
Mr B and Quilter. Mr B didnt make any material submissions in relation to the outcome but 
did provide evidence that he was a higher rate taxpayer. Quilter disagreed and made further 
submissions, Ive read and considered its submissions in their entirety, here Ive included a 
summary:
It had demonstrated that the DFM met Mr Bs needs and that all costs were disclosed 
up front. 
It disagreed that Mr B didnt require a bespoke service, this took important 
investment decisions out of his hands and provided him with a clearly defined investment path. This was outlined in the suitability report which set out the 
advantages and disadvantages of the DFM structure. 
Given Mr Bs circumstances the expertise provided by the chosen DFM wouldve 
been of use to him. 
There are similarities here with Mr Bs other complaint where we reached a different 
outcome. 
There was a further cost for the advice and increased costs on an ongoing basis, but 
this doesnt mean the advice was unsuitable, the increased cost was reflective of the 
higher level of service being provided. 
Mr B made an informed decision to accept those costs for the benefits outlined to 
him. The fee for the advice incorporated the Venture Capital Trust advice as well. 
The fees were well within normal parameters. 
Overall, the advice met Mr Bs objectives and the fees were disclosed to him. 
The investigator wrote to Quilter and Mr B explaining that I didnt think the advice fee 
included the VCT advice, that advice was paid for and invoiced separately. But it does 
appear that the fee also covered some subsequent investment advice. That advice doesnt 
form part of this complaint and its only the fee in respect of the pension switch and DFM 
advice that forms part of the award in this case. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been passed back to me for 
review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken into account all of the additional submissions, my findings remain broadly as 
set out in my provisional decision, Ive reiterated these below and expanded where 
appropriate to address the additional points made. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, the parties to this complaint have provided detailed 
submissions to support their position and I am grateful to them for taking the time to do so. 
Ive considered these submissions in their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the 
fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of this decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
findings, on what I consider to be the main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Its my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
Nature of the complaintLike the investigator I think that Mr Bs complaint goes beyond just the level of fees charged 
by Quilter. Hes questioned the need for the advice given and claimed that the adviser was 
recommending products simply for the sake of the fees. 
This brings into question suitability of the advice  and, in any case, our remit is inquisitorial, 
and we can look beyond the complaint as expressed by the complainant. 
Suitability of the advice 
Quilter was required to follow the relevant rules set out by the regulator. These include the 
overarching Principles for Businesses  principles 1 (integrity), 2 (due skill, care and 
diligence), 6 (customers interests) and 9 (reasonable care) are of particular relevance here.
Amongst other things, to fulfil its duties Quilter had to know its client, act in his best interests 
and give suitable advice.
Taking into account Mr Bs circumstances, Im not persuaded that the switch and 
subsequent investment via a DFM was suitable. This came at significant cost and resulted in 
him incurring additional fees in respect of his pension. 
Mr Bs pension was substantial, and his income needs were already comfortably covered 
through other existing pension arrangements. His risk was assessed to be balanced; this 
appears to have been broadly cautious-medium. His investment needs could easily have 
been met by investing in readily available funds, such as a managed fund, without incurring 
additional costs. Theres also no indication that Mr B was unhappy with his existing 
arrangement or that it didnt meet his needs. 
No real justification has been provided for the requirement of a DFM and incurrence of the 
additional costs associated with this. The use of a DFM did mean that Mr Bs pension funds 
were being closely monitored and shouldve required little oversight from him. But theres no 
indication that this had previously been an issue. Given Mr Bs circumstances and attitude to 
risk, if hed been suitably invested, I dont think his pension required that kind level of 
oversight/management. 
So, I think that the switch and subsequent investment via a DFM was unnecessary and 
unsuitable. 
The switch appears to have been driven by the adviser not Mr B and its not been suggested 
that Mr B was an insistent client or that he was otherwise likely to go against suitable advice 
from his adviser. But, for the sake of completeness, Ive considered this  and, I havent 
seen anything that would lead me to conclude that Mr B was likely to disregard suitable 
advice. So, I think that but for Quilters unsuitable advice Mr B wouldve retained his existing 
pension arrangement and not incurred the additional costs associated with this advice. 
The advice fee
In response to my provisional decision Quilter said that the advice fee of £17,000 covered 
the estate planning advice as well. The estate planning suitability report states: 
We discussed and agreed the charge payable for this advice and this is based on a 
3% fee of the total amount invested of £300,000.00 which equates to £9,000.00.
And Having reviewed your current investments you are prepared to release up to 
£300,000 for possible reinvestment to better meet your financial objectives. You have 
recently surrendered £142,000 from [Mrs Bs] Bond whereby a report was competing 
under separate advice and you wished to re-invest this with Quilter Cheviot. 
However, following our recent meeting where your estate planning needs and your 
concerns regarding the life assurance plans were discussed further, you agreed that 
you would rather place some of these funds in a plan to reduce your IHT liability and 
gift funds to your sons immediately on either death. Of the £142,000 you wish to 
maintain £92,000 of this to fund new cars each and gift some to your sons. The 
remaining £50,000 you wish to use towards your estate planning, together with 
£250,000 from your Quilter portfolios.
The initial advice fee of £9,000 specifically for estate planning advice was also confirmed in 
a separate invoice and in the authority to proceed form issued in relation to this advice. 
Taking all of this into account Im satisfied that the £17,000 initial advice fee didnt include 
the VCT advice. What appears to have happened is that it was initially stated that the 
£17,000 would also cover advice on the reinvestment of £142,000. A report in relation to this 
was issued but that advice was never implemented. Instead, as a result of further 
discussions, it was decided that £92,000 would be retained and £50,000 would be used 
towards estate planning. It appears that the only advice which was implemented in relation 
to the £17,000 was the pension advice despite the initial intention for this to cover 
subsequent investment advice (this was provided but never implemented and subsequently 
revised and charged for separately). So, I remain of the view that the fee, in so far as it 
relates to the pension advice, should be refunded to Mr B by Quilter as set out below.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr B would have remained with his previous provider, however I cannot be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous policy would have been worth. Im 
satisfied what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Quilter do?
To compensate Mr B fairly, Quilter must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous provider. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Quilter should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Quilter should pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Quilter is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr B's actual marginal rate of tax 
in retirement.
Mr B is a higher rate taxpayer, I think his marginal rate of tax is 40%. However, Mr B 
may have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, if he was, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 35%.
Pay Mr B £150 for the distress caused by this situation.
Repay the advisers fees together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date 
the fees were paid to the date of settlement. If the above comparison shows that no 
compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and the notional 
value can be offset against the fees with interest.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
pension 
plan 
invested via 
DFM
(LV 
pension)Still exists 
and liquidNotional value 
from previous 
providerDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr B's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Quilter should request that the previous provider calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the LV pension should be added to the notional value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the LV pension should be deducted from the notional value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the notional value instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, Quilter will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr B's investment instead, using this benchmark: For half the 
investment: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index; for the other half: 
average rate from fixed rate bonds. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
If the previous provider is unable to calculate a notional value, then I consider the 
measure below is appropriate.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that 
Mr B would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint, I direct Quilter Wealth Ltd to pay him 
compensation as set out above. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that 
Quilter Wealth Ltd pays the balance.
Determination and award: 
I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out 
above. My final decision is that Quilter Wealth Ltd should pay the amount produced by that 
calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 (including distress or inconvenience but 
excluding costs) plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
Recommendation:If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I 
recommend that Quilter Wealth Ltd pays Mr B the balance plus any interest on the balance 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman