DRN-3252214
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The recorded mileage
If Miss M was told something that was wrong and if that false statement led her to enter into 
an agreement she wouldnt otherwise have entered into, I would think the agreement had 
been misrepresented to her and Id ask MotoNovo to take some action.
Miss M says the mileage was wrong on her finance agreement and that the car had actually 
completed 57,000 and not 56,600 miles. But Im not persuaded that made much difference. I 
dont think its likely the sales price would have changed as a result and I therefore dont 
think it would have been likely that Miss M wouldnt have proceeded with the deal had the 
true mileage been declared. Im not therefore persuaded that a misrepresentation has taken 
place.
The quality of the car
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss M. The car here was about 
five years old and had already completed about 57,000. So, I think a reasonable person 
would expect some wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs after the first six months it is for the 
consumer to demonstrate it was present or developing when the goods were supplied, when 
MotoNovo were responsible for the quality of the car.
Miss M has explained that there was a coolant leak on the car identified during the MOT 
completed in March 2021, five months after she took receipt of the car. Shes also explained 
that it had been necessary to top up the coolant in December 2020.
That would suggest there was probably a coolant leak on the car when it was supplied to 
Miss M. I dont think its unusual for a car of that age and mileage to have a coolant leak. I 
think that would be considered fair wear and tear and wouldnt be a reason to suggest the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
The terms of the hire purchase agreement required Miss M to keep the vehicle in good 
order and repair. So, if a leak was identified, as it was in the March MOT, I think Miss M 
should have ensured it was repaired.
When the car overheated in July 2021 the dealership identified a coolant leak and a faulty 
pressure cap. I think they were likely to be the issues causing the coolant leak, that Miss M 
has explained she identified earlier in the agreement. I therefore seems likely that the failure 
to rectify that leak has led to the engine overheating and needing replacement.
As I think Miss M was responsible for rectifying the coolant leak I dont think it would be fair 
to hold MotoNovo responsible for the engine failure that seems to have reasonably occurred 
as a result of that leak not being rectified by Miss M. 
Miss M says she was denied an opportunity to have the car independently inspected so she 
could demonstrate the problem had been developing from the start. Our inspector has 
explained that, on a call at the end of July 2021, MotoNovo wrongly advised Miss M about 
the process and suggested it was their responsibility to demonstrate the fault was present 
from the beginning. But, on 17 August 2021, MotoNovo correctly advised her she would 
need an independent inspection.
I think Miss Ms opportunity to compile evidence to support her claim has been diminished by 
MotoNovos failure to explain the burden of proof properly. But Im not persuaded its likely 
the outcome would have been any different if they had. I say that because the engine wasnt 
replaced until 2 September 2021 and Miss M still had time to instruct an expert but didnt.  
And I think if an expert was instructed he would have been likely to have come to the same 
conclusions as Ive seen no alternative explanation about how the engine overheated.
So, overall, Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence this car was supplied in an 
unsatisfactory condition.
But I am persuaded that there have been mistakes made by MotoNovo that have caused 
Miss M distress and inconvenience. They didnt explain the burden of proof properly to 
Miss M and they didnt, initially at least, tell her not to repair the car until investigations were 
completed. Miss M couldnt have been expected to understand those matters and would have been understandably reliant on MotoNovo to explain the process for her. Shes 
explained she found the whole process stressful and I can understand that. In the 
circumstances, I think MotoNovo should provide some compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience they caused.
Putting things right
MotoNovo should pay Miss M £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by their mistakes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to pay Miss M £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman