DRN-4098932
The complaint
Miss C complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, who Ill call BMWFS.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BMWFS, but I dont think this car has been of satisfactory quality. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then BMWFS, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss C. The car here was about 
four years old and had already completed about 45,300 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect it to be experiencing some wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that when we think about whether a car has been of 
satisfactory quality we should also consider whether it has been durable.
As Miss C had been in possession of the car for quite a long time when the turbo failed I 
think the onus was on her to demonstrate the car hadnt been durable. But I dont think she 
needs to provide any further evidence. The turbo charger failed after the car had completed 
only 67,980 miles and online research suggests a turbo should last the lifetime of a car. I 
cant see that there is evidence Miss C contributed to that failure by, for instance, not having 
the car serviced properly, so I think it hasnt been durable. And Im further persuaded that is 
the case as I can see the exhaust and Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) also failed and that the 
bill was almost £8,500; a little over half of what Miss C paid for the car. I dont think a 
reasonable person would think a car had been durable if they were faced with such a 
significant repair bill within such a short period of ownership. 
Putting things right
In those circumstances, and as Miss C has now returned the car and ended the agreement, I 
think it would be fair for BMWFS to refund the repair cost Miss C incurred to replace the 
turbo, DPF and exhaust system, on provision of receipts from Miss C. Theyll need to add 
interest to that refund as Miss C has been deprived of the money.
It's not fair that Miss C was paying for a car she couldnt use. BMWFS should therefore 
refund any monthly finance instalments Miss C may have paid between 4 March 2022 when 
the health check was completed and the faults were diagnosed, and 13 April 2022 when the 
car was repaired. 
Miss C has also been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to have the car repaired 
and shes had to escalate her complaint to this Service. In the circumstances I think BMWFS 
should pay her £200 compensation.
I understand that Miss C is upset she had to pay about £2,700 to terminate her finance 
agreement, when she experienced further issues with the car. Thats not something that 
BMWFS have had the opportunity to consider, and Miss C will therefore need to give them 
the chance to do so if she wants to pursue that complaint point. Its not something this 
Service can consider until BMWFS has.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
Refund the repair costs for the turbo, DPF and exhaust system, on provision of 
receipts and/or proof of payment from Miss C. Add 8% simple interest* per year from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss C £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced.
Refund any finance instalments paid from, and including, 4 March 2022 to 13 April 
2022. Add 8% simple interest* per year from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must 
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for 
one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman