The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2007. Mr B says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
Mr B said he bought the PPI when he applied for a credit card on an internet application. He 
said he didnt want PPI and if the terms and conditions and optional nature of the policy had 
been made clearer, he would have declined it. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr B disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays probably made it clear on the internet application that Mr B didnt
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why
he cant remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt have to check if it was right
for him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if
it was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him
off from taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr B,
that was unfair.
DRN-1328186To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what he said about his sick pay and 
savings. But these points dont change my decision because the PPI would have been paid 
in addition to Mr Bs sick pay. And a successful PPI claim meant his savings could be used 
for other expenses.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman