DRN-1697622
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the increase in the premium charged by AXA PPP Healthcare 
Limited for his private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019, AXA sent Mr H his renewal premium for his policy, which had increased 
from the previous year. Mr H asked AXA for a full breakdown of his premium.
AXA explained some the factors that may have affected the new premium. Unhappy with 
this, Mr H made a complaint. AXA then provided a more detailed breakdown of the factors 
and the percentage increases that applied to them. However, Mr H remained dissatisfied 
with AXAs explanation and so he brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought all of AXAs 
customers with Mr Hs circumstances had been charged a similar increase, so she didnt 
think it had treated him unfairly.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We generally take the view that its up to an insurer how much to charge for its policies. So 
long as it exercises this judgment fairly and consistently, and in accordance with its internal 
guidelines, its a matter in which we wouldnt normally interfere.
AXA has explained to Mr H the factors it takes into account when setting premiums. Its also 
confirmed the percentage increase attributable to his no claims discount, as well as the other 
factors that impacted the renewal increase. I think AXA has adequately explained to Mr H 
the factors behind his increase in premium.
As our investigator has explained, AXA has provided this service with a full breakdown, 
showing how these factors have contributed to the increase in Mr Hs premium. We havent 
been able to share that information with Mr H because its commercially sensitive. However, 
Ive checked this information and Id like to reassure Mr H that Im satisfied that AXA has 
calculated his premium accurately and fairly. Mr H has been charged the same amount as 
someone else with the same circumstances as him.
Overall, Im satisfied that AXA has treated Mr H fairly and I cant reasonably tell it that it 
should reduce his premium.
AXA paid Mr H £50 compensation for failing to respond to a letter hed sent it, and also 
apologised for this. I think that was a reasonable response.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman