DRN-4172891
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as S, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly closed 
its account.
What happened
Barclays told us:
During 2022 it carried out a Know Your Customer (KYC) review of Ss account. As 
part of that review, it wrote to S asking for information about its business.
S did not respond to its requests for information, so in June 2022 it sent a further 
letter giving notice that it intended to close Ss account.
S still not respond, so on 16 November 2022 it closed Ss account. It is satisfied that 
it acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions.
Ss directors told us:
They didnt know that Barclays wanted more information from them, and they didnt 
receive any correspondence to any of the addresses associated with S.
If they had received any correspondence, they would have acted quickly. This 
episode has caused significant damage to their company, and if they had known 
account closure was imminent they would have acted to avoid it.
If Barclays had wanted to contact them, it had ample opportunities to do so. It had 
the personal email addresses and telephone numbers of both directors. It also 
continued to send paper bank statements to them, but those statements made no 
mention of Barclays intention to close Ss account.
The sector S operates in means it is paid in a complicated way. Barclays decision to 
close Ss account  and subsequent refusal to reopen the account (either with the 
same details or at all)  meant that they had to spend significant time opening a new 
business account elsewhere and then setting up new payment arrangements with 
each of its customers. Some customers have still not replied to the directors 
attempts to contact them, with the result that they have little chance of recovering all 
the money owed to S.
To resolve the matter, they would like compensation for the financial loss Barclays 
has caused to S, as well as for the high levels of stress they suffered as directors.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but did not uphold it. He was satisfied that 
Barclays was entitled to close Ss account, and that it had given Ss directors fair warning 
that it intended to do so.
Barclays accepted our investigators conclusions, but Ss directors did not. They reiterated 
that they did not receive the letters Barclays says it sent to them, and neither did their 
accountant (whose address S uses as its registered office). Over the years Barclays has 
contacted them by phone and by email, and after the business account was closed Barclays 
added a note to that effect on a paper statement  which shows that Barclays can use all of 
those communication methods when it suits it to do so. The damage Barclays caused to 
their business was significant, and they do not believe Barclays properly discharged its duty 
of care to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is very little I can add to what our investigator has already said. I 
consider that Barclays was entitled to carry out its KYC process, and I dont think it did 
anything wrong in deciding to close Ss account.
Our investigator was right to explain that banks in the UK are strictly regulated, and must 
take certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also 
required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes 
means  as in this case  that a bank chooses to carry out a KYC review.
I understand that Ss directors have no concerns in principle about Barclays decision to 
carry out a KYC review. Their complaint is that they didnt know the review was taking place, 
and that the result was that Ss account was closed without notice.
I think the key issue in this complaint is whether Barclays sent the letters it says it sent in 
relation to the KYC review. Our investigator thought it had, but Ss directors say they didnt 
receive any of Barclays letters. Ss accountant also says that it did not receive anything for 
S at its address.
I am sorry to further disappoint Ss directors, but having considered all the evidence I think it 
is more likely than not that Barclays did write to S in respect of a KYC review, and that it did 
give notice that it intended to close Ss account.
Although Barclays cannot provide copies of the actual letters sent, I am satisfied with the 
evidence Barclays has provided. It is common for banks like Barclays to record evidence of 
this sort of exercise in the form of template letters together with details of where and when it 
sent those letters, and I do not criticise Barclays for doing so. Here, Barclays evidence is 
that it sent Ss letters to its registered address. I appreciate that Barclays sent other 
documents (such as statements) to a different address, but I dont think Barclays did 
anything wrong in sending important correspondence for a limited company to that limited 
companys registered address.
I accept that evidence that a letter was sent is not evidence that that letter was received. I 
am aware that there were several Royal Mail strikes during 2022, and it is possible that one 
or more of those strikes caused Ss letters to be delayed. But I think it is very unlikely that all 
of those letters went permanent astray, and on balance I think it is more likely than not that 
they were received.
I am further satisfied that Ss directors did not respond to Barclays letters (and indeed they 
have not suggested they did respond  they said they could not respond because they didnt 
receive the letters in the first place). That means Barclays did not have the information it needed to carry out its KYC review, and so I consider that it was entitled to close Ss 
account.
It is very unfortunate that Ss directors had so much difficulty in finding alternative banking 
arrangements, and I hope they are able to collect all the money that is due to them. 
However, since I am not satisfied that Barclays made an error in closing Ss account, I dont 
think it would be fair for me to make an award for the consequences of that closure.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman