DRN-3921750
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont reimburse her for the money she lost when 
she fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) safe account scam.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties and were clearly set out in 
detail by our Investigator  so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary and based on the submissions of both parties I understand them to be as 
follows.
Ms K fell victim to a safe account scam. Around a week before the scam, Ms K fell victim to 
a phishing text  which resulted in Ms K providing some of her banking details.
On 12 August 2022, Ms K then received a text from her other banking provider  whom Ill 
call N. The text appeared as though it had come from the fraud team and advised Ms K 
that it had blocked her account due to irregular activity and that someone from the fraud 
team would call her. It also provided a fraud reference number. 
Shortly after, Ms K was called from what she thought was a genuine N telephone number. 
Ms K says the lady she spoke to knew the reference number she had received by text, 
sounded professional and her interaction resembled previous interactions Ms K had had with 
N. Ms K says she was advised that her accounts with N were at risk as a result of the 
phishing scam and that she needed to move her money into an immediate account (her 
Revolut account) and then from there on to new accounts that were being set up by N in her 
name. Ms K was told that she needed to transfer into separate accounts due to her having a 
current account and a savings account and due to transfer limits. Unfortunately, and 
unknown to her at the time, Ms K was liaising with fraudsters.
Ms K, believing things to be genuine, ended up moving her funds (from her savings account) 
with N into her Revolut account. From there, Ms K made seven payments in around two 
hours to the beneficiary account details provided by the scammer. In total, Ms K transferred 
£19,000.
Ms K became concerned when the fraudsters tried to also get her to transfer over her 
current account including an amount for the overdraft. Realising she had been the victim of a 
scam Ms K reported the matter to Revolut to see if it could help stop the payments or 
recover her funds. 
Revolut logged the matter that evening and contacted the Receiving Firms (the Firms where 
Ms K had sent the funds to) on 14 August 2022, to see if any funds remained that could be 
recovered. 
Revolut also informed Ms K through its in-app chat function that it wouldnt be reimbursing 
her for the payments she had made from her account. Revolut explained it had protections in 
place and provided adequate warnings before payment authorisation. 
Ultimately the Receiving Firms responded to Revolut to advise that no funds remained that 
could be recovered. 
Ms K formally complained about the matter and Revolut issued its final response to Ms K on 
9 September 2022. Broadly summarised Revolut remained of the opinion it wasnt 
responsible for the loss. It advised that on each occasion Ms K set up the new payee it 
informed her whether the beneficiary account name matched (commonly known as 
Confirmation of Payee  CoP). It then explained it asked Ms K to confirm whether she 
trusted the beneficiary and also advised that she could potentially be the victim of fraud and 
could ultimately be deprived of her funds. Revolut explained that Ms K continued with the 
payments. Revolut also considered it acted in a timely manner in contacting the beneficiary 
banks to try and recover the funds.
Unhappy, Ms K referred the matter to our service. One of our Investigators looked into the 
complaint. Broadly summarised, she considered while Ms K had authorised the transfers 
(albeit while being tricked); Revolut should have systems in place to look out for unusual 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud or 
financial harm.
She noted that Revolut, in its submissions to our service, advised that it had detected that 
the initial transfer Ms K made during the scam was high-risk, and that it could indeed be a 
scam. Revolut explained that it left the transfer at a pending state and through its app 
asked Ms K about the purpose. Ms K at the time was being guided through the payment 
journey by the scammer and selected something else  with Revolut advising that the 
correct option was safe account which would have given Ms K an appropriate warning. 
Ms K proceeded with the payment and didnt take the option to have a live consultation 
(through its in-app chat function) with a Revolut agent.
Our Investigator considered Revoluts action was proportionate in relation to the first transfer 
of £100. But she thought the second transfer of £3,000, made eight minutes later should 
have flagged. She said this because it was another payment made to the same beneficiary 
(of where there was a CoP no match) in quick succession and was of an increasing amount. 
Our Investigator thought Revolut should have been on high alert that Ms K might be at risk of 
financial harm, and it should have done more to intervene on the second transfer. Our 
Investigator thought Revolut should have contacted Ms K about it. It was our Investigators 
view that, had it done so, it was more likely than not the scam wouldve unravelled, and the 
loss wouldve been prevented. Our Investigator also considered that Ms K wasnt partly to 
blame and shouldnt bear any responsibility for the loss.
Our Investigator therefore thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She 
recommended Revolut refund Ms K her losses from (and including) the second transfer 
onwards. So reimburse Ms K £18,900. She also recommended Revolut pay additional 
interest on that amount at the applicable saving account rate that the funds had originated 
from. Our Investigator considered had the scam been prevented, Ms K wouldnt have moved 
her funds from that account  so this would return her into the position, as far as is possible, 
had the scam been prevented.  
Ms K accepted the Investigators findings, but Revolut disagreed. 
Broadly summarised Revolut considered that Ms K chose the wrong payment purpose  
choosing something else as opposed to safe account  so it considered Ms K should 
share some responsibility for the loss as Ms Ks responses led Revolut to believing the 
payments were genuine. Revolut also considered that had it intervened further, as Ms K was being guided by 
professional scammers, then it was unlikely that Ms K would have been truthful. So it 
considered it wouldnt have been able to prevent Ms K from making the payment.
Our Investigator disagreed and remained of the opinion that had Revolut had better 
intervention the scam would have been revealed. She considered while Ms K had been 
guided through the payment purpose the scammer had given Ms K a plausible reason why. 
But importantly she thought Ms K hadnt been provided with a cover story or coached as to 
what to say by the fraudster if Revolut contacted her. So she considered Ms K, if she had 
been contacted by Revolut, would have explained what she was doing and why which would 
have put Revolut on notice that Ms K was at risk of falling victim to a scam. And had things 
been explained then Ms K would have likely questioned what was going on and wouldnt 
have made the transfer. The Investigator remained of the opinion that the scam would have 
unravelled at the point of Ms K making the second transfer and Ms Ks losses could have 
been prevented by Revolut.
Revolut disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a determination. So as the matter 
hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
It is the case that Ms K authorised the transfers in dispute and thats accepted by all parties. 
And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in 
place here) that means Ms K is responsible for them. That remains the case even though 
Ms K was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.Taking the above into consideration, in this case, I need to decide whether Revolut acted 
fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms K when she made the transfers to new payees, 
or whether it should have done more than it did.
Did Revolut act fairly and reasonably in this case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Revolut should have been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
I note what Revolut has said about how Ms K used her account. However, Revolut did 
identify the first transfer to a new payee (which had a CoP no match) as high risk. It set it 
to pending and asked Ms K the payment purpose  to which Ms K chose something else 
and proceeded with the payment.
Given the value of the payment  I think Revolut acted proportionately here. But eight 
minutes later, Ms K made a further payment of £3,000 to the same details. 
I am mindful that a common theme to a scam - especially a safe account scam  is that a 
scammer tries to gain as much money from unsuspecting victims as is possible. So where 
there are multiple payments or transfers made in quick succession, it is a possible 
indication to a bank or building society that their customer could be at risk of financial harm. 
The first transfer Ms K made was for £100 and the second transfer was for £3,000. So it 
was another transfer to the same payee (with the beneficiarys name being Ms Ks  which 
didnt match) and it was in quick succession and importantly the amount had also increased 
significantly. I think the second transfer, in light of the first transfer and the risk it had 
identified there, should have given Revolut a concern that its customer may be at risk of 
financial harm. 
So Im persuaded that when Ms K made the second transfer which was of an increasing 
amount to the same beneficiary details (in Ms Ks name) and in a very short space of time 
her account activity was unusual and out of character. I think Revolut should reasonably 
have taken additional steps and made additional checks before processing the second 
transfer. 
Revolut argues that it did identify the first transfer possibly meant Ms K was at risk and set 
the transfer to pending and asked Ms K about the purpose of the payment through its app. 
Revolut says Ms K selected something else  which was the wrong option as there was an 
option to select safe account. It considers that had Ms K selected the more appropriate 
option in safe account then she would have seen a warning in relation to those types of 
scams. 
When a risk is identified, the steps a Firm can take to intervene to satisfy itself that its 
customer isnt at risk of financial harm are its own commercial decision. So the question I 
must consider is whether Revolut took appropriate action in responding to the risk of 
financial harm it had identified?Did Revolut take appropriate action in responding to the risk of financial harm it had 
identified?
I accept that a payment service provider or electronic money institute does have a duty 
under the Payment Service Regulations not to delay payments or transfers unduly. But it is 
not an unfettered duty to execute  and reasonable checks are also required as part of the 
broad regulatory landscape to treat customers fairly and to safeguard against the risk of 
fraud or financial harm. I accept theres a limit as to what it can reasonably do; and I still 
expect consumers to take responsibility for their own decisions  and possibly even bear a 
reduction in compensation if there is clear evidence of blame on their own part (see below). 
But when plain triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic account activity exist, its not 
unreasonable to expect a Firms fraud alerts to respond proportionately  and that might 
simply include, for example, a phone call, in app chat or discreet conversation for 
transactions in branch to check that things are okay. 
First, I note Revolut has said that it has provided Ms K (and other customers) with 
information about scams in email communications. While this is certainly good practice and 
does raise awareness  from a preventative aspect, Revolut  where it identifies in real time 
that its consumer is at risk of possible financial harm  still has on obligation to step in and 
intervene or make additional checks to ensure that everything is ok, and its consumer isnt 
potentially falling victim to a scam.
When Ms K set up the new payee details, she received a CoP account name doesnt 
match. I also note Revolut, when Ms K made the first payment to a new beneficiary, said it 
provided a review transfer screen / page and at the top of this screen / page it stated the 
following:
Do you know and trust this payee?
If youre unsure, dont pay them, as we may not be able to help you get your money 
back. Remember, fraudsters can impersonate others and we will never ask you to 
make a payment.
However Im mindful that Ms K was in a pressure situation, was under the belief that she 
was talking to her genuine bank, had been told that it was a pseudo account  where the 
details wouldnt match, and was also being helped through the making the payment. So I 
can understand why the CoP and the review transfer screen wouldnt have necessarily 
broken the spell for Ms K.
But and importantly  I think it should have put Revolut on alert that its customer was at 
potential risk of financial harm when Ms K made a follow up transfer minutes later. 
I consider that following its concerns about the first transfer, when Ms K made a second 
transfer eight minutes later more intervention was required. I say this because it isnt 
uncommon in scams (such as a safe account scam) for the customer to be guided through 
the payment journey by a scammer. And without proactive steps to break the spell of 
scammers, customers will often proceed with the payment they are making. They are 
unaware that they are caught up in the scam. And when sophisticated elements are involved 
such as the scammers utilising phishing texts and therefore knowing lots of information 
about a customer, then the scam becomes significantly more persuasive. A warning is 
unlikely to have the required impact on a customer that has been manipulated into action 
through a combination of sophisticated means and fear and who is being guided through the 
payment journey by a scammer. So, when I take into account the risk Revolut had identified with the first transfer then it 
should have intervened when Ms K made another transfer minutes later to satisfy itself that 
its customer wasnt at risk of financial harm. It was a second transfer to the same details 
(whereby the payee details were again in Ms Ks name  and wasnt an account match) and 
the amount had increased.
Direct contact with Ms K would likely have made the difference here. And I think that would 
be a proportionate response in the circumstances  given the risk it had identified. That 
intervention might have come in the form of Revolut contacting Ms K directly, or by requiring 
her to contact Revolut herself to speak to a member of staff before being able to proceed.
Ive thought carefully about what wouldve happened had Revolut made enquiries with Ms K 
(such as an in-app chat or phone call) before processing the transfer. 
There is obviously a balance to strike, and Im not suggesting that Ms K should have been
subjected to an interrogation by Revolut. But Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have 
satisfied itself that Ms K hadnt fallen victim to a scam, and Im persuaded it couldve done 
this by asking a few questions of Ms K prior to processing the transfer. 
Of course I cant know for sure what wouldve happened, so Ive thought about what is more 
likely than not to have been the case.
Ms K wasnt given a cover story by the scammer and had only been guided through the 
payment journey and what payment purpose to select and why. So I disagree that Ms K 
wouldnt have been truthful in any direct communication with Revolut. I think had Revolut 
contacted Ms K to enquire what the payment was for  she would have explained what she 
was doing. 
Revolut would, or should reasonably, have been aware that this scenario fits the 
characteristics of a safe account scam. Firms such as Revolut have actual or constructive 
knowledge of all the main scams, such as this. So it could have explained this type of scam 
to Ms K. If that had happened, I consider it likely that the spell of the scam would have been 
broken and that Ms K wouldnt have proceeded with the transfer.
So I think Revolut could have prevented the losses Ms K incurred when she made the 
second transfer and Ms K wouldnt have made any further transfers. 
Should Ms K bear some responsibility for the loss?
In reaching my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have also 
considered whether Ms K should bear some responsibility for her loss. Ms K has explained 
and provided evidence to show the text she received that she thought was from her bank. 
The text appears from the fraud team and provided a reference number. Ms K has also 
provided evidence of the telephone numbers and calls she received which Ms K thought was 
Ns number (it transpires there is a one-digit difference to Ns genuine number  so very 
similar). Ms K says the adviser she spoke to knew details about her and her interaction 
resembled previous interactions she had with her bank  running through all the same 
processes. The scammer (as a result of the phishing text) was able to make everything 
seem genuine. 
So I can see why Ms K thought she was liaising with her bank and was carrying out the 
instructions asked of her. The scammers provided plausible answers to Ms K about what 
she needed to do and why. Again, in a pressure situation such as this, with Ms K convinced 
she was talking to her bank and where the scammers instil a sense of urgency and panic, I 
can see why she took the actions she did.All things considered, Ms K was the victim of a cruel and sophisticated scam. I am satisfied 
she believed she was liaising with her genuine banking provider at the time and didnt 
foresee the risk of this sort of harm and was not partly to blame for what happened. So, on 
the particular facts of this individual case, I dont consider it fair to reduce compensation for 
some of the loss due to any blameworthy acts or omissions by Ms K. 
Did Revolut do enough to recover Ms Ks funds?
Ive also considered whether Revolut took reasonable steps to recover Ms Ks funds once it 
was made aware she was the victim of a scam. Revolut could have reasonably acted sooner 
than it did here. Ms K reported the matter on 12 August 2022 and Revolut contacted the 
Receiving Firms on the 14 August 2022 (according to its records). However I am mindful that 
Faster Payments are often credited into the receiving account almost instantaneously and 
fraudsters typically withdraw / move funds on also in case they get frozen or withheld if the 
matter is reported. Our Investigator obtained information from the Receiving Firms that the 
funds had unfortunately been moved on / withdrawn almost instantaneously. So even had 
Revolut acted quicker than it did it unfortunately wouldnt have made a difference. 
 
Summary 
Overall, I consider when Ms K made the second transfer Revolut could have done more to 
prevent Ms K from the risk of financial harm. There was enough going on, in light of the first 
transfer, to suggest that Ms K may well have been in the process of being scammed and 
Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have picked up on this. Had it done so and had 
Revolut contacted Ms K directly and asked some questions to challenge the purpose of the 
transfer, Im persuaded it is more likely than not the scam would have come to light, and 
Ms K wouldnt have lost out on the £18,900 she ended up transferring.
Ms K has explained that money she lost originated from her savings account held at N. Had 
the scam not happened the funds would have remained in that account. So I think it is fair 
that in addition to refunding her outstanding loss, Revolut pay additional interest on that 
amount at the account rate the funds originated from. Ms K has provided evidence to show 
the savings account interest rate was 0.30%. I consider this fairly places Ms K back in the 
position, as far as is possible, that she would have been in had Revolut prevented the 
second and subsequent transfers  as I consider it should have done.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold, in part, Ms Ks complaint against Revolut Ltd. 
I now direct Revolut Ltd to:
Refund £18,900 (less any sums that have potentially been recovered and 
subsequently returned to Ms K).
Pay additional interest on that amount at 0.30% (which was the rate of the savings 
account the funds had originated from) calculated from the date Ms K made the 
transfers until the date of settlement. *
*If Revolut Ltd deducts tax from this part of the award it should provide a tax deduction certificate to 
Ms K so she can reclaim the amount from HMRC if eligible to do so.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I direct Revolut Ltd to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Ms Ks acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman