DRN-3703775
The complaint
Mr M complains that Starling Bank wont refund to him the amount that he paid for some 
decorative items from an overseas antique dealer. 
What happened
Mr M used his Starling Bank debit card in November 2021 to pay a total of £2,063.01 for 
some decorative items from an overseas antique dealer. The items were delivered to him but 
three of them were damaged. He says that he contacted the merchant and it said that it 
would replace the damaged items but didnt do so. Mr M contacted Starling Bank to dispute 
the payment in February 2022 but then asked it to put the claim on hold until the end of 
March 2022. Starling Bank asked him to contact the merchant in April 2022 but there was an 
error in Mr Ms e-mail to the merchant so it wasnt sent to the merchant. Mr M then contacted 
the merchant and gave it 15 days to respond so the claim was put on hold again. By the time 
that Mr M confirmed that no response had been received from the merchant, the time limit in 
which a chargeback claim could be made had expired.
Mr M complained to Starling Bank but it said that the correct processes had been followed. It 
apologised that he wasnt made aware that it was reaching the end of the time limit and 
accepted that it should have been more transparent with him  it also apologised that Mr M 
didnt receive the phone calls from a manager that hed requested. It credited £100 to his 
account for any inconvenience caused. Mr M wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr Ms 
claim didnt meet all the criteria for a chargeback and the merchant had offered an 
acceptable resolution so he didnt think that a chargeback claim wouldve had a reasonable 
chance of success and he couldnt ask Starling Bank to refund to Mr M the full amount that 
he'd paid to the merchant. He agreed that Starling Bank shouldve informed him better and 
that its service wasnt satisfactory  but he thought that the £100 compensation for its poor 
service was fair. 
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that a 
chargeback claim shouldve been successful and hes provided detailed information about 
the value of the items and says that he would also be willing to return all of the items for a 
full refund.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
if a consumer disputes a card payment, the card issuer may be able to make a 
chargeback claim to the merchant under the relevant card scheme to try to settle the 
dispute;
theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made, but if the 
right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made; 
Mr M contacted Starling Bank about a chargeback claim in February 2022 but then 
asked it to put the claim on hold until the end of March 2022 - Starling Bank asked 
him to contact the merchant in April 2022 but there was an error in Mr Ms e-mail to 
the merchant so it wasnt sent to the merchant;
Mr M then contacted the merchant and gave it 15 days to respond so the claim was 
put on hold again  but by the time that Mr M confirmed that no response had been 
received from the merchant the time limit in which a chargeback claim could be made 
had expired;
Starling Bank accepts that it shouldve given Mr M more information about the time 
limits for a chargeback claim and that there were issues with the service that he 
received  it apologised for that and credited £100 compensation to his account;
I consider that it would have been helpful for Starling Bank to have provided more 
information to Mr M about the time limits in which a chargeback claim could be made 
but Im not persuaded that it was required to do so;
I consider that the £100 that its credited to Mr Ms account for that, and the customer 
service failings, is fair and reasonable compensation for those issues and Im not 
persuaded that a higher award of compensation is justified in these circumstances; 
Starling Bank agreed with Mr M twice to put his claim on hold, there was an error in 
the e-mail that he intended to send to the merchant so it wasnt sent and, when he 
confirmed that hed had no response, the time limit had expired;
although I can understand Mr Ms frustration that a chargeback claim wasnt made, 
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Starling Bank acted 
incorrectly, or not accordance with the applicable scheme rules, in not making a 
chargeback claim before the time limit had expired;
the merchant had offered to replace the damaged items and, although it hadnt done 
so, I consider it to be more likely than not that it would have defended a chargeback 
claim if one had been made so there wasnt a reasonable prospect of a successful 
claim;
Im not persuaded that Starling Bank should have made a chargeback claim in these 
circumstances or that there was a reasonable prospect of a successful claim; and
I sympathise with Mr M for the loss that hes suffered, but I find that it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable for me to require Starling Bank to refund to him any of the money that 
he paid to the merchant, to pay him any further compensation or to take any other 
action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman