DRN-4083586
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy Equifax Limited recorded information about a third party on his credit 
report.
What happened
Mr H complains about a third party being added as a financial associate on his credit report, 
which he knew nothing about. Mr H said other creditors were able to see the third partys 
information on his file.
Mr H says this has impacted him in many ways - he was refused bank accounts, loans and 
credit cards and that the incorrect financial association information impacted his credit score. 
Mr H also says he was refused employment and that this issue has caused him distress, 
which has led to sleepless nights and inconvenience. Mr H says that when creditors carry 
out searches with the other Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs), theyll see the incorrect 
information on his credit file with those CRAs.
Mr H also complained about the service he received from Equifax  he said 
there were delays in the complaints process and that he wasnt given an explanation for the 
delays.
Mr H says he wants Equifax to award him £350 compensation and for them to sort out his 
credit score.
Equifax responded to Mr Hs concerns. They said in Mr Hs case, a mistake had been made 
by their data matching system because of similarities between some of Mr Hs and the third 
partys information. However, Equifax said that having third party information appear in the 
association section of his credit report wouldnt have impacted his ability to obtain credit. In 
order to resolve the issue, Equifax loaded a Notice of Disassociation (NoD) to their database 
to ensure all of Mr Hs information was separated from the third partys and to prevent a 
potential reoccurrence of this issue. 
In relation to the customer service Mr H received, Equifax apologised to Mr H and after 
reviewing his account, recognised he hadnt received the level of customer service they 
aimed to provide  they said Mr H ought to have been told that all CRAs use a different 
system and an error on Equifaxs system may not be an error on another CRAs system and 
vice versa. Equifax offered Mr H £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused and for the 
customer service Mr H experienced. Mr H didnt feel this was fair compensation and said 
more compensation was warranted.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Hs concerns. In summary, she said Equifax acted fairly in 
loading a NoD when Mr H raised his concern about the incorrect financial association. Our 
Investigator also acknowledged the information provided by Mr H shows he was declined 
credit by lenders and also that he lost a job offer after checks were carried out on the Cifas 
database. But she said this took place after Equifax had loaded the NoD and the incorrect 
financial association information had been removed. In any case, our Investigator concluded 
the evidence Mr H provided didnt point to applications being declined as a result of the third 
party association on his Equifax credit file. Our Investigator recognised that Equifax offered 
Mr H £50 compensation and didnt ask Equifax to do anything more. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for his complaint to be considered by an Ombudsman. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate Mr Hs concern when he found data relating to a third party on his credit 
report. Equifax already agreed that this was a mistake due to their data matching system 
and loaded a NoD to fix this issue. Equifax provided us with a copy of Mr Hs credit file from 
25 May 2022 and there is no data showing in the financial associates section. So, Im 
satisfied the NoD Equifax loaded removed the third partys information. This means I need to 
consider the impact this mistake had on Mr H and whether Equifax have done enough to put 
things right.
Mr H has provided us with evidence from different lenders and other third parties showing 
things like him being declined credit, a lender closing an account after they carried out 
further checks and also Mr H being declined a job offer in September 2022 (four months 
after the NoD was loaded by Equifax)  this letter explained that the employer found 
information on the Cifas database which related to Mr H. Having carefully reviewed all of 
this, I dont have enough evidence to conclude that any credit applications were declined 
because of the information on Mr Hs Equifax credit record about the third party. I say this 
because some of the evidence provided shows lenders declining credit as a result of 
information found on the Cifas database. Additionally, the evidence shows Mr H being 
declined credit and an account being closed months after the third partys information was 
removed from his credit file. This means I cant fairly require Equifax to pay further 
compensation.
Mr H also raised concerns about the third party being able to see his financial information on 
their credit file. But Ive not seen any evidence to suggest this was the case. While I dont 
necessarily agree with Equifaxs comment that having a financial association wouldnt 
necessarily impact a persons ability to get credit, I havent seen the declines in credit 
mentioned above were as a result of the third partys associated details  their details 
werent showing on Mr Hs credit file at the time of the declines.
As Ive mentioned, I appreciate Mr H would have been caused concern and worry in finding 
out that a third party had been linked to him incorrectly. But I think Equifax acted quickly to 
load the NoD to Mr Hs credit file in order to resolve this issue. Mr H referenced his credit 
score being impacted by the incorrect financial association. However, I havent seen any 
evidence to persuade me of this. When Mr H contacted Equifax on 11 May 2022 to raise this 
issue, Equifaxs notes show Mr H mentioned negative information on his credit file such as 
defaults, he also acknowledged his credit score wasnt the best and said that he was paying 
back other creditors through arrangements. 
Equifax acknowledged their customer service wasnt as they expected. Mr H wasnt told 
sooner that the other CRAs didnt need to be notified of this issue as the matching error was 
as a result of Equifaxs system  not the other CRAs.
Mr H raised concerns about delays in the complaints process and I can see he first raised 
his concerns about this issue on 11 May 2022. The information from Equifax shows they 
contacted Mr H on 25 May 2022 to explain how this issue happened, confirmed that the NoD had been loaded and that it was successful in removing the incorrect link of the third party. 
But I appreciate waiting a long time for Equifax to issue their final response letter would have 
been frustrating. However, this point would fall under complaint handling which doesnt fall 
within our jurisdiction, so isnt something I can consider. 
Having carefully considered the worry caused to Mr H in finding out about the third partys 
information and the customer service he received, I think the £50 offered by Equifax to settle 
the complaint is fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that Equifax Limited should pay Mr H £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman