DRN-2731841
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Everyday Loans Limited (Everyday) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
 What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy (called repayment protection insurance by Everyday) 
taken out in Mrs Rs sole name in 2009. The policy was taken out during a meeting when 
Mrs R was applying for a loan. The policy provided Mrs R with life cover only. If Mrs R had 
died whilst her loan was still running, the policy would have repaid any outstanding debt.
 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. Everyday hasnt responded 
to this opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case. I have also taken account of the law 
and good industry practice at the time the policy was sold. 
I understand Mrs R had several loans with Everyday over a period of time, and shes 
complained about the insurance on two of them. Everyday has told us the two loans werent 
linked at all, so this decision is only about the loan and insurance Mrs R took out in May 
2009. Mrs Rs complaint about her other loan is being dealt with separately.
The main questions I need to consider here is whether Everyday gave Mrs R the information 
she needed to decide whether to take out the policy. If there was a problem with the way the 
policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mrs R is worse off as a result. That is, would 
she have done something different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been 
any problems with the sale?
I have decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs R says Everyday made her believe she had to buy this insurance on order to get the 
loan. I dont need to make a finding about whether or not Everyday presented the policy as 
optional, because I have another reason for upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Everyday says that this was an advised sale. This means that, in recommending the policy, it 
needed to ensure that it suited Mrs Rs needs, and ensure the information it provided about 
the costs and benefits associated with the insurance was clear and not misleading. 
I dont think Everyday did this. I say this because Everyday added the cost of the insurance 
to Mrs Rs loan, and explained that, on average, shed pay £5.41 a month for it. Thats 
shown on the loan agreement Mrs R signed. 
Underneath this information theres an explanation that the insurance cost was actually 
calculated as a percentage of the total loan outstanding at any given time. What isnt clear is 
the impact this has on the overall cost of the loan, as it leads to additional interest being 
charged. The additional cost is about £870 over the three years the loan was to run for, 
which equates to about £20 a month. 
I think that, if Mrs R had been given this information she wouldnt have bought the insurance. 
At the start of her loan, she owed about £2,700. So thats the maximum her estate would 
have benefited by if shed died  and this figure would reduce as payments were made. I 
dont believe Mrs R would have thought paying so much extra was good value if shed had 
all the information, so I think it was mis-sold by Everyday.
Putting things right
Mrs R paid more in interest than she should have done, so Everyday should
 Work out and pay Mrs R the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what shed have paid without the insurance.
 
 Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs R paid from when she paid it until she gets 
it back. The rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
  If Everyday Loans has already paid Mrs R an amount to compensate her for high 
commission and profit share included in her premiums, then Everyday Loans can deduct 
this from the amount it owes her.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Everyday Loans Limited to pay Mrs 
R the compensation outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021. 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman