DRN-3547435
The complaint
Mr C complains that Vitality Health Limited (Vitality) has unfairly refused to pay for a medical 
treatment hes had. He wants Vitality to pay his claim and some compensation for what hes 
been through.
What happened
Mr C has a medical insurance policy with Vitality. Its designed to cover the cost of private 
medical care in certain circumstances.
Mr C was in pain, and a consultant recommended an injection into his spine to try to control 
the pain and return him to his normal state of health. Two injections were carried out  in 
June? And September 2021. Both were paid for by Vitality. Some time later the consultant 
recommended a third injection, but Vitality said it wouldnt cover the cost as it believed Mr C 
was suffering from a chronic condition, and treatment of this wasnt covered by Mr Cs policy. 
It did say it would consider any comments Mr Cs consultant might make. 
Mr C got his consultant to explain why the third injection was recommended, but Vitality still 
wouldnt meet the claim. Eventually Mr C paid for the procedure himself, and later 
complained to Vitality about the way hed been treated. Vitality still wouldnt meet the claim, 
so Mr C asked us to look at the complaint.
Our investigator thought Vitality should meet the claim. He looked at the definition of a 
chronic condition but didnt think Mr Cs condition fell into this category, so he didnt think it 
was fair for Vitality to refuse to meet the claim. He recommended Vitality meet the claim and 
add interest to make up for Mr C having to use his own money for the treatment. Vitality 
argued that Mr Cs condition is chronic, and sent in some guidelines from the National 
Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) to support the way it approaches claims like 
Mr Cs. Our investigator didnt change his mind, and as Vitality disagrees with his 
conclusions Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Vitality is required to interpret the terms and conditions in its policies fairly when deciding if it 
should meet a claim. I dont think its done that here.
The terms and conditions in Mr Cs policy say that Vitality need not meet a claim if the claim 
is for the treatment of a chronic condition. In summary, it defines chronic as an illness, 
disease or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
Needs ongoing or long term monitoring or tests
Is for ongoing or long term relief of symptoms
Requires rehabilitation
Continues indefinitely
Has no known cure
Comes back or is likely to come back
Ive thought about whether Mr Cs condition  as described by his consultant  fits this 
definition. I dont think it does. His entire course of treatment took place within a six month 
period, and his consultant was clear that the third injection was to be Mr Cs last before more 
drastic treatment  that is surgery  was to be considered. After the third injection Mr C tells 
us he is no longer under the care of the consultant, and his condition isnt being monitored or 
treated going forwards. I think that suggests Mr C has been returned to the state of health he 
was in before he started treatment. Theres also no suggestion that Mr Cs condition will or is 
likely to return.
Taking everything into consideration I dont think Mr Cs condition was chronic and so its 
reasonable to expect Vitality to pay for the third injection.
Vitality says it sent us an excerpt from the relevant guidelines about how to treat Mr Cs 
condition  and suggested his treatment didnt comply with this. Ive read the excerpt but I 
cant see that it says that the number of treatments should be limited. Im also persuaded by 
the report sent by Mr Cs consultant, that the last injection was necessary. Mr Cs consultant 
treats patient with conditions like Mr Cs regularly and explains clearly why a final injection is 
required, so I think its fair to rely on his report..
Vitality says its own guidelines say injections like these wont be paid for unless they are 
more than six months apart. But theres nothing in the terms and conditions that mentions a 
timescale for deciding if a condition is chronic or acute. If Vitality wants to implement such a 
timescale Id expect it to include this in the terms and conditions to avoid confusion going 
forwards. However, that doesnt affect this particular decision. Vitality also says it made a 
mistake when it agreed to pay for the second injection. It might well have done that but I 
havent been asked to consider the circumstances surrounding that payment. So I dont think 
whether or not Vitality made an error at an earlier point affects how I reach a decision about 
the third injection. 
Putting things right
Mr C had to use his own money to pay for treatment, when Vitality should have covered this. 
So its fair that Vitality puts that right by meeting Mr Cs claim. It should do that by refunding 
to him the amount he paid for the treatment. It should also add simple interest at the 
statutory rate of 8% interest per annum. It should add this interest from the date Mr C paid 
for treatment up to the date it meets the claim. Vitality may have to comply with HMRC 
regulations and deduct tax from the interest before paying Mr C. If it does that Vitality must 
give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one. 
I think this is a fair way to compensate Mr C for the loss if use of his money and the trouble 
hes been put to.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Vitality Health Limited should now meet Mr Cs claim as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman