DRN-3650038
The complaint
Mr N has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund transactions he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise. He says he never received his replacement card or PIN.
What happened
In late 2021, Mr N ordered a new card for his account, and later a PIN. Following this, a 
number of branch and cash machine withdrawals were made over a period of two weeks.
Mr N explained that his post was delivered to a communal space shared with two other flats, 
and that at the time he was not at home but staying with family. He said he never got the 
card or PIN. He alternately said he noticed things were wrong either when he got home, 
found no post, rang Lloyds and was told about the payments; or when he got a message 
about his overdraft and checked his account himself.
Initially, Lloyds refunded some of the transactions, but after investigating they thought Mr N 
had authorised the payments in dispute.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly, Lloyds can hold Mr N liable for the payments in dispute if he authorised them. This 
is based on the evidence and the balance of probabilities  it is not required for Lloyds to be 
able to 100% prove that Mr N authorised the payments, as he suggested. 
Im satisfied from Lloyds technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Mr Ns 
genuine card, and the correct PIN. So I can see that these transactions were properly 
authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence suggests that its most likely Mr N 
consented to the transactions, or not.
Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided, I dont think 
its unreasonable for Lloyds to hold Mr N liable for the transactions in dispute. Ill explain.
The card and PIN were ordered separately on different days. It would not have been obvious 
that either of the envelopes contained a card or a PIN, and Mr Ns postman and neighbours 
wouldve had no way of knowing that he was expecting a card or PIN. And they would need 
to have intercepted both in order to make these transactions. That is possible, and so this is 
only a minor point, but its worth noting that its not especially common for both a card and its 
PIN to be successfully intercepted.
More notably, the bulk of the money was taken out in branch. This would have been very 
risky for a fraudster, as at any moment Mr N could check his account and report the fraud, 
and they wouldnt know before going into branch and getting caught. Yet the person using 
the card kept making branch transactions up to the end, despite the unreasonable level of 
risk this wouldve posed to a thief. It looks like they were confident that they wouldnt be 
reported before they finished emptying the account.
It's also significant that the person using the card did not use it as much as they could have. 
I wouldve expected a thief to try to take as much money as possible, as quickly as possible. 
Yet the person using Mr Ns card spread the spending out over two weeks and left gaps of 
up to two full days between transactions. This does not fit well with the possibility that these 
payments were fraudulent, but would make sense if they were made with Mr Ns consent.
Just a few minutes before the disputed payments started, Mr N logged into his online 
banking using his biometric fingerprint, and checked what his new PIN was. Mr N pointed out 
that he checked some other things as well, but its notable that he specifically checked what 
the new PIN was. This new PIN was then used for disputed payments straight after this. But 
if Mr N was really away with family, and hadnt received his card, and was not planning to 
make any card payments, then he wouldve had no good reason to know his new cards PIN 
at that point. And the PINs only purpose was for making transactions on his card. It seems 
unlikely to be a coincidence that Mr N looked up his new PIN right before it was used for 
payments. Whereas it fits well with the possibility that he looked up the PIN in order to 
authorise those payments.
Similarly, its notable that before the disputed transactions, Mr N checked his online banking 
nearly every day, and sometimes multiple times a day. Yet after looking up his PIN just 
minutes before the first disputed payment, Mr N then stopped checking his online banking 
entirely, until just after the disputed payments had finished draining the account. Mr N said 
he didnt check his online banking because he wasnt using the account. But as I noted 
above, before this incident he was checking his online banking very frequently even when he 
wasnt using the account. Its not likely that Mr N just happened to stop all his usual online 
banking activity during the exact period of the disputed payments.
The disputed payments were funded by very large credits into the account, made in the days 
leading up to the disputed period. Mr N had not really been using this account beforehand, 
the credits were abnormally large, this was not a savings account where one would normally 
store large amounts, there were no outgoing payments due, and the credits do not seem to 
have been earmarked for anything in particular. Essentially, these credits dont appear to 
have served any purpose other than ultimately funding the disputed transactions.
Mr N said he put the money in this account for safekeeping and so he didnt spend it. But 
the money was just as safe in his account with the other bank  if not more so, given that 
Mr N had just ordered a card and PIN for this account and then allegedly gone away, 
meaning he wouldnt be able to make sure they were safely received. And there was nothing 
preventing Mr N from spending the money in his Lloyds account, not least since  as he 
noted himself  Mr N normally made payments by online and mobile banking, rather than by 
card. So I dont find these reasons to be persuasive.It's then notable that while the disputed transactions were still going on, Mr N paid in further 
money. And he did this at the point when the person using the card was about to hit the 
overdraft limit. This then enabled further disputed payments to be made. And Mr N didnt 
check his account at this point either, even though before this he not only checked his 
account most days, but especially tended to check it when paying money in. Again, it seems 
most unlikely that this was all a coincidence, but it does fit well with the possibility that the 
payments were made with Mr Ns consent.
I should also note that Mr Ns testimony has not always been consistent. For example, at 
different points he said notably different things about how he noticed the disputed payments. 
And Im afraid this does make it difficult for me to conclude that things happened as he said 
they did.
I understand that Mr N has asked to see CCTV footage, and I appreciate why. However, 
CCTV footage is only kept for a very short time  about a month or so normally  so it wont 
still be available now. And even if it were still available after all this time, it wouldve only 
shown what the person making the transactions looked like. It would not have shown 
whether Mr N had given them permission to use the account or not.
Lastly, I note Mr Ns arguments around Lloyds giving him an initial refund of some of the 
payments. But its a standard practice for banks to initially give customers a refund when 
they report payments as unauthorised. Then they investigate fully afterwards. These refunds 
were not an admission of anything by Lloyds. After investigating the matter further, Lloyds 
concluded that the payments were in fact authorised.
In summary, I do not think its likely that:
Mr N happened to pay an abnormally large amount of money into an account that he 
wasnt otherwise really using, when it was not a savings account used for keeping 
large amounts, and when the money does not seem to have been intended for any 
particular use;
Mr N happened to order a new card and PIN, despite not using the account much in 
general and not usually making card payments;
Mr N happened to order the card and PIN right as he was about to go away;
Someone somehow thought Mr N might be getting a new card and PIN and managed 
to intercept both separate envelopes;
Mr N happened to look up his new PIN online just before that PIN was used to start 
making payments, despite having no other good reason to know the PIN at that point;
Mr N then happened to stop checking his online banking for two weeks, despite 
checking it most days beforehand even when he wasnt using the account;
The person using the card was so confident they wouldnt be reported that they made 
most of the spending in branch;
They were also so confident that they wouldnt be reported that they didnt use the 
card as quickly as they could have and waited lengthy times between transactions;
Mr N happened to then pay further money into this account he wasnt otherwise 
using, which happened to be at the point the person using the card had almost run 
out of funds, which then enabled further disputed transactions  and again, he didnt 
check that this went through, despite normally checking his account very frequently;
Mr N then only checked his account just after it had finished being emptied.That involves too many sheer coincidences to be a likely or plausible version of events. 
I must also consider that the activity does not fit with what Id expect in fraud, and that Mr Ns 
testimony has not been entirely reliable. On the other hand, its both likely and plausible that 
Mr N couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them.
So taking everything into account, I find that it was reasonable for Lloyds to hold Mr N liable 
for the payments in dispute. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a 
difficult message for Mr N to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint in this particular case.
This final decision marks the end of our services involvement in the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman