DRN-3858962
The complaint
Mrs F complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles delayed processing a refunded 
transaction to her credit card account. 
What happened
Mrs F used her NewDay credit card to pay for some flights in January 2020. The flights were 
subsequently cancelled by the airline due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
The airline refunded the tickets on 21 September 2020. But the funds werent received into    
Mrs Fs account with NewDay. Mrs F says she called both parties and was told by the airline 
that the refund had been processed and by NewDay that the refund hadnt been received.
Ultimately, it was found that the card Mrs F used to pay for the flights had been stopped and 
a new card  with a new card number, had been issued. As the airline had refunded the 
payment to the old card number, the payment hadnt been automatically applied to Mrs Fs 
account. NewDay transferred the funds to Mrs Fs account on 27 October 2020. 
Because of the delay, and the funds not being available when she needed them, Mrs F says 
she incurred additional costs when making a visa application as the visa application fee had 
increased on 27 October 2020. So, she complained to NewDay.
NewDay looked into Mrs Fs concerns. It acknowledged that there had been a delay in 
applying Mrs Fs refund to the new account as the airline had applied the refund to her old 
card number. And it applied £20 compensation to Mrs Fs account by way of an apology.  
Mrs F didnt think this went far enough, so referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. She said NewDay had told us that it no 
longer held recordings of the calls Mrs F says she made to NewDay about the refund. But 
she thought it was most likely that Mrs F had called given she was expecting a refund and 
hadnt received it. And she thought NewDay could have done more to help Mrs F between 
21 September 2020 and 27 October 2020. And that it should have been able to identify 
sooner that the refund had been applied to the old card number. And she recommended that 
NewDay increase the compensation payment to £100.
Mrs F told us she didnt think £100 was sufficient. She said she had saved some of the 
money needed for the visa application and was waiting on the refund to make up the 
required amount. She said she wouldnt have incurred the additional costs had NewDay 
applied the refund to her new account when she first contacted it. The investigator 
considered this but wasnt minded to change the outcome shed reached.
NewDay didnt agree that further compensation was due. It said it had no record of Mrs F 
contacting it about the refund until 20 October 2020 after which the refund was traced and 
allocated to the new account on 27 October 2020.        
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me, and I issued a 
provisional decision.  
What I said in my provisional decision dated 8 December 2022
Its not in dispute that the visa application fee increased 27 October 2020. Mrs F applied for 
the visa on 9 November 2020. In doing so, she paid more than what she would have done 
had she applied before the fee increased. 
The crux of Mrs Fs complaint is that she says she was reliant on the refund to pay the visa 
fee. And had NewDay applied the funds to her account sooner, she would have been able to 
apply for the visa before the fee increased. And she would like NewDay to cover the 
additional cost she incurred.
Ive thought about this carefully and I make the following observations:
It is primarily for the merchant (in this case the airline) to ensure that the refund is 
made promptly. There is no dispute that the airline made the refund on                              
21 September 2020. But it used the card details Mrs F provided when she purchased 
the flight tickets. But by then Mrs Fs account and card details had changed. I cant 
fairly conclude that NewDay is to blame for that. Its unsurprising that it wasnt able to 
apply a refund made by reference to a card that was no longer active in the first 
instance.
Mrs F says she was reliant on the refund to cover some of the cost of the visa. But 
Ive not seen enough to persuade me that she didnt have access to the funds she 
needed from elsewhere  either from her own money, available credit or assistance 
from family and friends. For example, Ive seen that prior to the increase in the visa 
application fee on 27 October 2020, Mrs F had a nil balance on her credit card with 
an available credit limit of £2,650. And while she has provided some information 
about her employment and income including some personal bank statements relating 
to account ending *4565, Ive also seen other information which suggests she holds 
at least one other account ending *0110. So overall, Im not persuaded Mrs F 
couldnt have paid for the visa sooner than she did from other sources.    
In any event, even if Mrs F didnt have access to other funds elsewhere, Mrs F paid 
for the flights in January 2020 intending for them to be used. And, from what shes 
said, she would have always needed to pay for the visa application. So, had it not 
been for an event beyond her control  the covid-19 pandemic, Im satisfied Mrs F 
always intended to pay for the visa application and the flights. And when she paid for 
the flights, she didnt expect them to be refunded. So, Im not persuaded that the 
payment for the visa application was reliant on the flight ticket payment being 
refunded.
  
NewDay applied the credit to Mrs Fs credit card account on 27 October 2020 and 
transferred it to her bank account. Yet Mrs F didnt pay the visa application fee until 
around two weeks later. As there was a delay between Mrs F receiving the refund 
and paying the visa application fee, Im not persuaded that Mrs F wouldve paid for 
the visa application any sooner even if the refund had been applied to account before 
27 October 2020.Given the above, it follows that Im not persuaded that NewDay is responsible for Mrs F 
having to pay an increased fee for the visa application. So, Im not going to ask NewDay to 
pay more compensation than it already has.
Responses to my provisional decision
NewDay accepted my provisional decision. Mrs F didnt. She explained, in detail, why she 
thought my provisional decision wasnt fair and why I should require NewDay to pay her the 
compensation she asks for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F has provided a great deal of further comments and evidence. Im not going to respond 
to every single point she has made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules allow me to 
take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach what I 
think is a fair outcome. 
Having considered everything again, Im still not persuaded that I can fairly and reasonably 
require NewDay to pay Mrs F for her alleged loss. Ill explain why.
Even leaving aside most of the points I made in my provisional decision, prior to the refund 
being applied to her NewDay credit card account, Mrs F had sufficient available credit on 
that NewDay credit card account to cover any shortfall in her savings to meet the cost of the 
visa application. 
Additionally, Mrs F had said that she had borrowed money from family in the months leading 
up to the refund, which she paid back around September 2020. So, I think its more likely 
than not she could have borrowed money from her family again. And she could also have 
sought to borrow money from elsewhere. 
I appreciate that the above methods might not have been Mrs Fs preferred way of paying for 
the visa application fee  but they were options available to her. And therefore, Im not 
persuaded she was reliant on the airline refund.
I accept Mrs F wanted to wait for the refund before paying for the visa application fee. But if 
it was urgent, as she says it was, I find its more likely than not she could have paid for it 
from other sources. Instead, she waited on the refund and holds NewDay responsible for 
that delay. And she now expects NewDay to pay her more compensation than the refund 
was worth. I dont consider that a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint when the 
alleged loss could more likely than not have been avoided by Mrs F. 
Mrs F feels strongly about this matter. But I must approach things objectively, and having 
done so, Im not going to ask NewDay to pay more compensation than it already has. 
This decision ends what our service can do for Mrs F. She can however reject my decision 
and take the matter up elsewhere.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman