DRN-3128611
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that HMCA Insurance Ltd misled them about their private medical 
care plan. Reference to HMCA includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in 2014, Mr and Mrs V became members of HMCAs private 
medical care plan. The plan renews annually. Mr and Mrs Vs plan is on a continuous 
cover basis, which meant that it covers acute conditions originating after January 1991 - 
the date they enrolled in their previous cover with another provider. 
In 2020, Mr V made a claim in relation to investigations for his ankle. HMCA declined the 
claim. It relied on an exclusion in the plan in relation to revised or repeated treatment of 
a joint. Subsequently, as a gesture of goodwill, HMCA offered to cover an initial 
consultation and MRI, up to the limit of benefits. It said that if the problem was different 
from the one Mr V had experienced previously, plan benefits would be payable. 
Mr and Mrs V say that they decided to take out the policy with HMCA after assurances in 
the documentation which said that pre-existing conditions arising during cover with their 
previous provider would be covered. They say that they wouldnt have taken the plan if 
they had known about the exclusion. Mr and Mrs V want HMCA to return their premiums, 
less claims and reasonable administration costs, or to remove the exclusion relating to 
previous treatment of any joint.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that HMCA had 
acted unfairly. The investigator said that HMCA had provided sufficient information about 
the plan to enable Mr and Mrs V to make an informed choice and that it hadnt misled   
Mr and Mrs V. 
Mr and Mrs V didnt agree with the investigator. They said that when they took out the 
plan, there was an emphasis on cover for pre-existing conditions and the exclusion on 
which HMCA rely was in the small print. Mr and Mrs V said that the exclusion wasnt 
sufficiently brought to their attention. 
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs V said but didnt change his view.             
Mr and Mrs V asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr V in particular has strong feelings about this 
matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all 
this carefully and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that neither 
Mr nor Mrs V will take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think are the central 
issues in the case.
Based on what Ive seen and heard, this was a non-advised sale. That means that HMCA 
wasnt required to assess whether the plan was suitable for Mr and Mrs V. HMCA was 
required to give Mr and Mrs V enough information to enable them to make an informed 
decision. 
Ive seen the information that HMCA gave to Mr and Mrs V and listened to the phone calls 
between HMCA and Mr V when they first took out the plan. Im satisfied that HMCA gave   
Mr and Mrs V sufficient information in this case. HMCA wasnt required to ask Mr and Mrs V 
about their previous medical conditions or treatments. 
Mr and Mrs V say that they were misled by HMCAs emphasis on covering pre-existing 
conditions. The fact that Mr and Mrs Vs plan was on a continuous cover basis doesnt mean 
that HMCA cant rely on the exclusions in the plan. In general terms, insurers can decide 
what risks they wish to cover. Here, HMCA has decided that the plan doesnt cover revised 
or repeated treatment in relation to joints. I think that HMCA made that information available 
to Mr and Mrs V when they took out the plan and on renewal. Ive noted that in the July 2020 
renewal, HMCA drew attention to the exclusion in the Insurance Product Information 
Document. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs V but I dont think that HMCA misled them. It follows that 
there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct HMCA to return their premiums, less claims 
and administration costs or to remove the exclusion on which it relied. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman