DRN-3672640
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has settled his claim. 
What happened
Mr P had travel medical insurance with AXA. On 11 March 2020, he travelled to India and 
was intending to return home on 15 March. Mr P fell down the stairs and hurt his ankle on 13 
March and was unable to fly home on his intended flight. Mr P sought medical advice on 19 
March and began rehabilitation treatment the following day. Flights from India were stopped 
on 22 March owing to COVID-19.
Mr P said AXA didnt pay his claim in full and that hes been left out of pocket. Hed like AXA 
to pay his accommodation costs in full, as well as reimburse him for phone calls he made to 
AXAs assistance line as he was unable to get through. Mr P made other representations, 
but I note these were addressed in his previous complaint brought to this service and so I 
wont respond to those as part of this final decision. 
AXA said it declined to pay the full cost of Mr Ps accommodation because it wasnt satisfied 
with the evidence itd seen. AXA sent an agent to speak to the accommodation provider and 
the doctor responsible for Mr Ps care whilst in India. The accommodation provider was 
unable to persuasively demonstrate that Mr P had paid for his stay. AXA also highlighted 
anomalies with the supporting medical evidence and noted the treating doctor had the same 
name as the accommodation owner  which was a private residence. This gave AXA cause 
for concern and it was unpersuaded by Mr Ps testimony.  
AXA also said Mr P had prejudiced its investigation because he didnt report the accident 
until roughly one month after itd happened. AXA said had it known about the accident at the 
time, it wouldve repatriated Mr P back to the UK where he couldve undergone treatment. It 
highlighted Mr P wouldve been able to fly because the injury didnt require urgent medical 
treatment, rather he had to rest it and apply ice. AXA paid part of his claim up until the point 
where it said it wouldve made arrangements for Mr P to return to the UK. It also paid for the 
diagnostic tests for Mr Ps condition. But its refused to pay anything else in terms of his 
extended accommodation because it was unable to successfully verify his claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. She said AXA had assessed his claim fairly 
and reassessed it when asked to do so. She noted AXA would consider reimbursing call 
costs, provided Mr P could show evidence. She also agreed that without persuasive 
evidence to show hed paid for his extended accommodation costs, then AXA didnt need to 
do anything differently. 
Mr P disagreed. In summary, he said that AXA should pay the remainder of his claim and 
that hes provided invoices to show he paid for his accommodation. Mr P also said AXAs 
agents that visited the accommodation provider and the doctor to verify his claim behaved 
unprofessionally and in a threatening manner. He explained hed paid in cash and therefore 
there wouldnt be much in the way of evidence to show hed paid. Mr P also said hed 
attempted to contact AXA sooner than April, when hed submitted his claim and experienced 
difficulties because of the COVID-19 outbreak. Mr P said AXA told him itd deleted records of 
claim made during that time because of the sheer volume of calls it was receiving. Mr P 
wants his claim paid in full. And so, its for me to make a final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I too have decided it shouldnt be upheld. My reasons for saying that are 
the same as those already explained by our investigator, Im not persuaded that it was 
medically necessary for Mr P to stay in India and receive rehabilitation treatment because he 
couldve travelled home for this. Im also satisfied with AXAs assessment of his claim and 
for it to rely on the evidence gathered by its field agents to do this. Ill explain why.
AXA said it wouldve expected that Mr P make contact to tell it of his injury and that he was 
unable to take his scheduled flight back to the UK. AXA said that because Mr P didnt do 
this, he prejudiced its investigation. Thats to say AXA was unable to support Mr P and 
arrange for diagnostic tests, treatment and potentially repatriation to the UK. I understand 
and agree with AXAs arguments here as Id have expected Mr P to do that because I think 
its reasonable.
Ive seen evidence that Mr P engaged with his broker to find out whether cover was available 
in the circumstances and that contacted this insurer in April, but not at the time he injured his 
ankle. Mr Ps submitted evidence to show he was trying to contact AXA around the 13 March 
when his injury occurred, but I dont find this persuasive as the dates do not align. The 
phone records provided by Mr P are not itemised and therefore unreliable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Im referring to this because I think it adequately demonstrates that AXAs liability was 
unreasonably extended because it was unable to mitigate its losses by handling the claim. 
And that means AXAs decision to only make a proportionate settlement is fair because had 
it been informed at the earliest opportunity, then it wouldve been able to make better 
arrangements that wouldve protected it from unnecessary on-going costs related to Mr Ps 
extended stay in India. And so, Im in agreement that AXAs settlement is fair. 
I also wanted to note theres ambiguity around whether Mr P paid his extended 
accommodation costs. This is borne from the provider being unable to persuasively 
demonstrate that any money was exchanged between her and Mr P. I know Mr P strongly 
disagreed with that finding and so Ive carefully considered the evidence hes provided to 
show that he did pay those costs. Mr P shared the invoice he received and explained he 
paid for this in cash. The accommodation provider also shared an invoice but has been 
unable to show that any money was exchanged. 
I think it reasonable to expect the provider to produce this evidence when asked. Its not 
unusual for insurers to request this information and its usually providable by the third-party. 
And so, because this hasnt been produced, Im in agreement with our investigator that AXA 
has assessed that part of Mr Ps claim fairly and doesnt need to do anything more.   
Ive also not seen any evidence that Mr P called, or attempted to call, AXA in March to report 
his injury. And so, based on this, I disagree with Mr Ps argument here. AXA wasnt 
contacted until April. There was some communication between Mr P and his broker about 
whether he would be covered by his policy, but no communication with AXA directly. Theres 
also no evidence to support Mr Ps claim that AXA deleted records at the time of his injury in 
March 2020 owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman