DRN-1742719
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited sent details of her employment claim to the 
solicitors representing her employer. She also believes its actions caused her to miss 
important deadlines to pursue her claim in court. 
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mrs W made a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy to pursue legal action against 
her employer. This was considered by Aviva who instructed its panel solicitors. 
The solicitors confirmed to Aviva that following their conflict checks, they were unable to 
consider the claim or represent Mrs W for professional reasons. Mrs W says shes aware 
they represent her employer. Shes concerned that her employers now have access to 
sensitive information, not only about her claim but also about her colleagues. 
Mrs W says the solicitors continued to ask for more information on her claim before admitting 
they had a conflict of interest. And their delays caused her to miss important deadlines. She 
says her claim has now settled out of court, but that this was for potentially less than she 
would have got in court. 
Aviva say the solicitors didnt ask for any information on the claim - this was gathered by 
Aviva before they were instructed. They say the solicitors only had the claim for one day and 
they deleted all information after discovering the conflict, in line with the regulations that 
govern them. 
Aviva says it hasnt been able to identify any missed deadlines. It says as Mrs W was still 
employed at the time of making her claim, there were no time limits concerning a claim for 
constructive unfair dismissal. And it says the other elements of her claim couldnt be pursued 
due to policy exclusions and lack of prospects.
Mrs W disagreed with Aviva so she complained to our service. She said Aviva hadnt acted 
with due diligence by instructing a solicitor without checking if there was a conflict of interest. 
She wants Aviva to apologise and pay compensation. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Aviva had followed its process by 
instructing its panel solicitors, and the conflict checks were carried out by the solicitors 
immediately, which is common practice. She said our service would only ask a business to 
apologise and pay compensation if we could identity that it had done something wrong, 
which isnt the case here.
As Mrs W didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions on this complaint as our investigator, 
and for broadly the same reasons.
Mrs W has a legal expenses policy that will cover the professional costs of a solicitor to 
represent her in certain situations. The policy says that if a claim is accepted, Aviva will 
instruct one of its panel firms to take the case. There are some limits on the cover provided 
and some exclusions  for example, theres no cover for something that happened before 
the policy started, and cover is only provided if there is a reasonable chance that the 
policyholder will win their case. 
I can see that when Aviva first received Mrs Ws claim, it needed further information to 
satisfy itself the claim fell within the policy terms and conditions. It contacted Mrs W with a 
list of documentation it wanted to see. Once this was provided, it completed its assessment 
and instructed one of its panel firms to carry out a legal assessment. Aviva was notified the 
following day that the solicitors couldnt take this case on for professional reasons and that 
the information had been deleted. 
It does appear that in fact Aviva requested further information from Mrs W  not the 
solicitors. And the conflict of interest was identified within one day of the solicitors having the 
file. So I dont agree with Mrs Ws comments that the solicitors continued to ask for 
information before admitting they couldnt act for her.
Mrs W says Aviva should have exercised due diligence by checking whether the solicitors 
could take this case on before sending the papers to them. But Aviva says its standard 
procedure to send the file and the solicitors will not pass this to the legal team until their 
professional checks are completed. It says solicitors are bound by a code of conduct that 
covers issues such as conflicts of interest; confidentiality and disclosure. 
Its not my role to decide what Avivas processes should be when handling claims. And I 
cant look into the actions of a firm of solicitors as they are outside our services remit. What 
Im looking into is whether Aviva treated Mrs W fairly and reasonably and whether it took any 
action that jeopardised her claim. 
I dont think Aviva acted without due diligence by instructing a panel solicitor without knowing 
whether or not it was acting for the other side. I say this because Aviva would have been 
aware of the solicitors processes and its code of conduct. So I dont think it had any reason 
to doubt the professionalism of the firm. Ive taken into account that its standard practice for 
solicitors to carry out the conflict of interest checks  not the insurer. Mrs W has been 
assured her claim papers werent passed onto the legal team and they were destroyed 
following the conflict checks. I havent seen anything to show me this wasnt the case or that 
her claim suffered as a result.
Aviva went on to instruct another panel solicitor who said Mrs Ws claim wasnt covered. It 
said Mrs W had been aware of her equal pay claim for some time and the dispute dated 
back to before the policy started  so it was caught by the exclusion for pre-existing 
disputes. And the whistleblowing element didnt have reasonable prospects of being 
successful  which is a condition of cover under the policy.  
In addition, the solicitors said Mrs W couldnt pursue a claim for constructive unfair dismissal 
whilst she was still employed. They said if Mrs W chooses to resign or her employment is terminated, they would consider the claim further and review whether there were reasonable 
prospects of success. 
The solicitors reviewed all the information and provided a reasoned, written opinion. It was 
reasonable for Aviva to rely on that advice.
From what Ive seen, Mrs Ws claim wasnt declined due to any time limits set by ACAS or 
the tribunal. So its not clear what Mrs W is referring to. I understand she has since settled 
her claim out of court with her employers. I appreciate Mrs Ws comments that she could 
have potentially received more in court. But I havent seen anything to show me that was the 
case or that Aviva prevented her from pursuing this matter. Whilst there wasnt cover for her 
claims under the policy, she was still entitled to pursue them herself. 
As our investigator has explained, our service will only direct a business to put things right if 
we can see its done something wrong. Whilst I appreciate Mrs Ws strength of feeling in this 
matter, Aviva dealt with the claim in line with the policy terms and I think it has acted 
reasonably. So I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman