DRN-2168969
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy RH International Limited (trading as Advice4Claims) are charging her fees 
for some successful PPI (payment protection insurance) claims.
What happened
Ms B has explained she was contacted by Advice4Claims, in relation to potential mis-sold 
PPI. Ms B said that when she was contacted initially, she didnt think there was any mis-sold 
PPI to claim for  but Advice4Claims were insistent it was worth looking into. And so, Ms B 
signed the forms provided to her, and sent these back to Advice4Claims.
Following this, Ms B said she was told by Advice4Claims that she didnt have any PPI she 
could claim for, as this had already been done, and therefore the matter was closed. Ms B 
said she didnt hear anything more from Advice4Claims at that point.
But Ms B was contacted by one of the lenders she had previously noted (in the forms) that 
she might have purchased PPI through. Ms B said she liaised with the lender herself, 
providing information on her employment details for example. And, this resulted in a 
successful claim for mis-sold PPI. 
Shortly after this, Ms B said she received an invoice from Advice4Claims, for £296.03  
which it said was due to it, as payment for the successful PPI claim. Ms B didnt feel this was 
correct  because she considered Advice4Claims hadnt done anything in relation to her 
claims  she had instead. So, she didnt settle the invoice.
Ms B then received a further letter from the relevant lender. Ms B said the lender told her it 
had incorrectly calculated her refund before, and it gave her an additional sum in relation to 
the claim. And, after this happened, Advice4Claims sent a further invoice  for £1,806.97, 
again for work in relation to this claim. The total amount noted Ms B needed to pay 
Advice4Claims was £2,178. 
Ms B remained of the opinion this wasnt payable. And therefore, didnt pay it. 
Advice4Claims remained satisfied that its invoices needed settling and let Ms B know it 
would take further action to recover the payments if needed. Because Ms B didnt agree, she 
referred her complaint to this service, for an independent review.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Ms B had signed 
letters of authority to allow Advice4Claims to act on her behalf. It had found PPI Ms B had 
taken out and has raised the claims with the lender. So, our investigator considered 
Advice4Claims had acted fairly in raising invoices for the work it did, in line with the terms 
and conditions Ms B agreed to. And that it was entitled to seek payment of these invoices.
Ms B didnt agree. She highlighted there were many months where she didnt receive any 
contact from Advice4Claims. And she reiterated that it was her that liaised with the lender, 
resulting in her successful claim, and the two payments made to her. Ms B also noted that 
because of this she couldnt see how Advice4Claims had assisted in the matter, and she felt 
it was disproportionate of it to be levelling these charges.
Because Ms B remained unhappy, her complaint was provided to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Advice4Claims 
to do anything more. Ive explained why below.
Ms B doesnt dispute she signed letters of authority and sent these back to Advice4Claims. 
But Ive needed to consider these, to establish what it was that Ms B and Advice4Claims 
agreed to.
Having reviewed these letters of authority I can see Ms B did sign her agreement for the 
lender relevant to this case. The letters of authority explain that Ms B gave her authorisation 
for Advice4Claims to act on her behalf in relation. And, if there was a successful claim made, 
its fees were due. The terms and conditions of the account also detail that the fee would be 
20% plus VAT in that case. Given this, Im satisfied Advice4Claims had the agreement from 
Ms B to pursue mis-sale of PPI claims with the lender, and charge a fee, should this be 
successful.
I can see that Advice4Claims did receive information that Ms B did have PPI. And, Im 
satisfied it submitted claims to the lender following this. I say this because Ive seen a copy 
of the letters Advice4Claims sent to the lender, raising the claim. And the lender clearly 
received these  because when it agreed Ms B had been mis-sold PPI, it wrote to 
Advice4Claims to confirm this too. This was the case on both occasions that the lender 
contacted Ms B.
I understand Ms B explained the lender contacted her directly, and it was her that liaised 
with it before receipt of her successful mis-sale response from the lender. And I dont dispute 
that. But, regardless of whether the lender contacted Ms B directly or not, Im satisfied it was 
Advice4Claims that raised the claims with the lender, under the agreement it had with Ms B. 
And this, alongside Ms Bs discussions with the lender resulted in a successful claim. So, I 
do think Advice4Claims did the work it was expected to do under the agreement. And 
therefore, acted reasonably in raising invoices, once successful payments were made in 
relation to the claims. 
Ms B has noted that she was told by Advice4Claims, before the lender contacted her, that 
there wasnt anything to claim for, and therefore the matter was closed. I dont have any 
records of this conversation. So, I cant be sure what happened here. But in any event, Im 
satisfied that this doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint. I say this because its clear 
work was completed, as explained above, and given the terms of the agreement signed, 
Advice4Claims can reasonably charge the fee noted in that. 
My final decisionGiven the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require RH 
International Limited (trading as Advice4Claims) to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman