DRN-3072847
Complaint
Mr T is unhappy Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has increased the interest rate 
on his overdraft to 39.9%.
Background
In 2019, Nationwide wrote to Mr T and told him that the way it was charging for overdrafts 
was changing. There would no longer be a distinction between arranged and unarranged 
overdrafts and the APR that would now be charging a single overdraft interest rate of 39.9%. 
Mr T complained to Nationwide saying this rate was above the market rate and would cost 
him much more. 
Nationwide didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. It said it considered a number of factors when 
deciding the APR to apply on overdrafts and it was satisfied that Mr T wasnt treated unfairly. 
Mr T remained dissatisfied and referred his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ts concerns. He didnt think Nationwide had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr T disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks decision to alter its 
overdraft pricing structure and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So 
while Mr T is unhappy with what he considers to be an unfair increase in Nationwides 
overdraft interest rate, Im afraid that this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Nationwides charging structure changes per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr T if it implemented these changes unfairly. Mr T 
says that the changes have been implemented unfairly here as his interest rate is going up 
substantially and itll cost him significantly more to his use facility. 
But while Mr T may have been happier with the lower interest rate its, ultimately, up to 
Nationwide how it assesses what interest rate to offer its customers. Thats a business 
decision for it to make. And its not for our service to tell Nationwide how to assess 
applications or say it should have offered a lower interest rate in a particular set of 
circumstances. 
I understand Mr Ts strength of feeling on this matter and why he might be unhappy at 
having to pay a higher interest rate. But Im satisfied that Mr T was given sufficient notice of 
the changes. Im also satisfied that he can exit his overdraft and hes able to stop using his 
facility and have it removed, if he doesnt want to accept the new pricing structure. Equally, 
while Ive noted Mr Ts comments about the industry as a whole and the lack of competition, 
it isnt my role to enforce competition between banks.
What I have to decide here is whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr T. 
And overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Nationwide implemented 
these overdraft changes in a way that treated Mr T unfairly. And as the terms and conditions 
permitted Nationwide to make these changes in the first place, it follows that Im not 
upholding Mr Ts complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman