DRN-4217013
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Cofunds Limited, trading as Aegon, shared her account information 
with her partner without her authorisation. 
What happened
Mrs W holds a number of accounts with Aegon. These consist of both accounts in her sole 
name, and in joint names with her husband.
In 2021 Mrs Ws husband contacted Aegon to carry out some administration on his own 
account, and an account held in joint names with Mrs W. He provided Aegon with an email 
address in order for them to send the necessary documents to him so that they could 
process his request. This was subsequently added to the account profile.
A while later, Mrs W contacted Aegon about a withdrawal from an account she held in her 
sole name. Shes told us that she wanted to keep this account private, as she had previously 
been in an abusive relationship, and needed to ensure for her own peace of mind that she 
had some personal funds available, should she need them in an emergency. 
But following Mrs Ws interaction with Aegon, an email was then sent to her present 
husbands email address, explaining that theyd started to process her withdrawal request 
from her personal ISA, and in doing so, made her husband aware of an account that she 
wanted to keep private, so she complained. She said this caused her a great deal of 
distress, as her husband now wishes to use the funds, which she had otherwise kept aside 
for herself. Shes also worried about how secure her data is with Aegon. 
Aegon responded. They said that when Mrs Ws current husband added his email address to 
their joint account, Mrs W was the primary account holder, so the email was also updated on 
all other associated accounts in her name. Aegon acknowledged what had happened, but 
said that they were satisfied that the email was sent to the correct address listed on the 
account, so they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They agreed to amend the email 
back to Mrs Ws email, so that all emails in relation to her accounts would now go to her 
moving forward. But Mrs W was unhappy with this resolution, so she brought her complaint 
to our service. 
An investigator considered the complaint and recommend it was upheld. He said that while 
he recognised Mrs Ws husband had provided an email address following an interaction on 
his sole account and a joint account with Mrs W, he didnt think this gave Aegon authority to 
update or make any changes to accounts held in Mrs Ws sole name. So, he recommended 
that Aegon pay Mrs W £150 in compensation for the distress this mater caused. 
Aegon accepted the findings, but Mrs W didnt. She said she didnt feel this was an 
appropriate deterrent for the business, and it didnt do enough to compensate her for the 
distress the matter had caused. So, the case was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Aegon have confirmed that they have now resolved the issues with Mrs Ws 
personal accounts, having now added her personal email address added back onto 
them. And they said that they have provided feedback internally and are reviewing 
how their systems can be improved to avoid similar occurrences in the future. They 
also explained that the remaining accounts held with Aegon are either in Mrs W or 
her husbands sole name. So, there should be no further opportunity for any future 
change of details to impact the other partys accounts. So, as the crux of the matter 
seems to now be resolved, my decision will focus on the distress this matter has 
caused Mrs W. 
Mrs W has told us that she made it clear to Aegon when the account was set up that 
she wanted to keep this account separate. And shes also told our service the 
reasons why. I think this is perfectly understandable. Aegon have said that they cant 
see any evidence to show that they were made aware of this, but they havent 
disputed that this happened. Theyve explained that the account was opened 
originally with a different business entity, and that they only took over the 
administration of the account in May 2019, which could explain the lack of records.
Cases of this nature can be quite difficult to decide, as the impact this issue could 
have on one party, could be very different to another, dependant on their own 
personal experiences. So, Ive thought about this carefully before reaching my 
decision. 
I recognise, given what Mrs W has told us about her personal circumstances, that 
this matter wouldve been particularly distressing for her. Ive also had to balance this 
with the fact that there is no evidence to suggest that Mrs Ws information was 
shared with anyone that she has highlighted as being a risk to her. So, the 
compensation we might award, would be significantly less than if her details had 
been passed onto her ex-partner for instance, where there had been a history of 
abuse. 
That being said, the feelings and emotions that this wouldve likely brought up for 
Mrs W, I imagine must have been quite traumatic. And the worry about her data not 
being sufficiently protected (while not released to anyone that would put her at risk), I 
imagine must have caused significant distress. 
Aegon have explained that Mrs W was the primary account holder on the joint 
account, and that their systems will update all of the primary account holders linked 
accounts in these circumstances. But I dont think this response is an adequate 
explanation. As while it might be correct in an instance where one party requests 
their contact details are updated on a joint account that the same information is 
added to their sole accounts, I dont think its right for those details to be added to the 
partners sole accounts, on which the party making the amendments is not an 
account holder  as they should have no authority to make such changes, unless 
explicit consent from that account holder had been provided. So, in this case, Im 
satisfied Aegon were wrong to make the changes they did.  
When considering the above, Ive thought carefully about the negative emotions this 
situation wouldve likely triggered for Mrs W; and the difficulty she would have 
experienced more recently, in now having to explain these funds to her current 
partner  and her need to keep them separate from their joint funds. I imagine this 
would have been extremely distressing. But equally, Im not able to recommend that 
the business compensate her the value of those funds, as while I understand she has 
explained that these may now be used for other purposes, she does still has access 
to, and use of them. But given the distress this situation wouldve caused; I think the think the compensation Aegon should pay Mrs W should be increased to £450 in 
total.
In response to my provisional decision, Aegon confirmed they had nothing further to add, 
and Mrs W provided no further comments, and the deadline within which to do so has now 
passed. So Im ready to issue my final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again, and given that no new information or arguments have 
been provided by either party, I see no reason to depart from my original findings. So, in 
summary, I still think the increased award of £450 to compensate Mrs W for the distress 
caused, remains fair in the circumstances.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint, and I direct Cofunds Limited, trading as 
Aegon, to pay Mrs W £450 compensation for the distress this matter wouldve caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman