DRN-4096351
The complaint
Miss S complains that Bank of Scotland plc was unfair to start recovery action when her 
mortgage account fell into arrears. 
What happened
Miss S lost her job during the Covid-19 pandemic. Bank of Scotland agreed six months of 
payment deferrals, in accordance with guidance issued by the regulator. Miss S wasnt able 
to resume monthly payments after this and her mortgage fell into arrears. In March 2022 
Miss S received a letter saying Bank of Scotland was taking court action. Miss S says this 
was unfair as shed been told she had options such as to make payments for six months and 
extend the mortgage term (which was due to expire in late 2022) or sell the property herself.
Our investigator said it wasnt unfair for Bank of Scotland to start recovery action, given 
Miss S hadnt made payments for some time. Miss S didnt provide income and expenditure 
information, which meant Bank of Scotland didnt have an opportunity to consider what 
support it could offer. 
Miss S didnt agree, and asked that an ombudsman re-consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has asked for a range of questions to be answered, such as what the implications of 
human rights legislation are for this service, and what the implications for her are of Bank of 
Scotland being part of the Lloyds group but with separate registrations. She asked for 
confirmation that wed asked for and reviewed all necessary documents from both Bank of 
Scotland and Lloyds and listened to her calls over the previous six years with both banks. 
Miss S said a new law was expected which would be relevant to her situation. Miss S also 
asked for copies of Bank of Scotlands internal policies.
I should explain that we offer an informal dispute resolution service. I can ask Bank of 
Scotland for information and evidence to help me decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I dont need to review every document or communication 
between Miss S and Bank of Scotland (or any other bank in the same group) or listen to 
every phone call over the previous six years. I need to explain why I reach my decision. But I 
dont need to respond to each question asked by Miss S. Id add that Banks dont have to 
share their internal policies with customers, as these can be commercially sensitive. 
The complaint Miss S brought to us was that Bank of Scotland offered her options, including 
to sell the property or to make payments for six months and then extend the term. She says 
Bank of Scotland then said it had misled her about these options. Miss S said she wanted to 
extend the mortgage term and port it, but that option wasnt offered to her. 
Bank of Scotland recorded Miss Ss complaint as being that shed received a letter saying it 
was taking court action. Miss S was upset by this because she said she was told on 14 
March 2022 shed be able to extend the term if she paid as much as she could over six 
months. She said she was told on 31 March 2022 not to worry about legal action while she 
sold her property. 
Ive listened carefully to Miss Ss calls with Bank of Scotland on 2 April 2022 when she 
explained her complaint. I think Bank of Scotland made a fair summary of the complaint 
Miss S raised, and this is consistent with the complaint Miss S brought to us. This is the 
complaint that I will be looking into. I wont be addressing Miss Ss other questions in this 
final decision. 
Did Bank of Scotland give Miss S incorrect information about her options?
Ive listened to Miss Ss call with Bank of Scotland on 14 March 2022. Miss S said she was 
intending to start marketing the property for sale in summer or autumn. Shed started a new 
job but didnt know her salary. 
Miss S asked for her arrears balance and about capitalisation. Miss S said she needed to 
work out what was best for her, for instance if she should extend the mortgage and then port 
it. Bank of Scotland said the fair assessment team would need to assess what arrangement 
would be affordable and if she could meet the contractual monthly payment and something 
towards the arrears. It said extending the term was an option it used to increase affordability. 
Bank of Scotland said it would need six months payments before considering capitalisation. 
Bank of Scotland said the level of arrears met its litigation criteria, so it could start legal 
action. It said the next step was for Miss S to complete an income and expenditure to get an 
arrangement in place. Miss S said she needed to get back to work and would call later in 
March 2022.
Miss S spoke to Bank of Scotland on 31 March 2022, and Ive listened to this call. She said 
someone was interested in buying the property and asked for a statement of the amount she 
owed. Bank of Scotland said once the property was on the market or she received an offer, 
Miss S could call and ask for a hold to be put on action while the sale went through. Miss S 
said she could pay about £400 per month until the sale completed (her contractual monthly 
payment was over £800).
Miss S was upset when she received a letter on 2 April 2022 about court action, which she 
said was inconsistent with the options offered to her in March 2022. I dont think though that 
Bank of Scotland misled Miss S or gave her incorrect information about her options.
Bank of Scotland told Miss S she needed to complete an income and expenditure to agree 
an arrangement and she hadnt done this. While Miss S says it was agreed shed pay £400 
thats not right. Thats the amount Miss S said she could pay. Id expect Bank of Scotland to 
complete an income and expenditure with Miss S before agreeing to an arrangement as it 
would need to check what amount was affordable. 
Bank of Scotland told Miss S she should call back when she had an offer for the property or 
it was on the market so it could hold action. It didnt put action on hold because Miss S didnt 
confirm she had an offer for the property or that shed put it on the market. 
Bank of Scotland told Miss S that if she wanted it to consider porting or extending the 
mortgage term this would require her to complete the application process. 
I think Bank of Scotland gave Miss S correct information about her options, and what steps 
she needed to take if she wanted to pursue one of these options. Bank of Scotland said it should have told Miss S on 31 March 2022 that solicitors had been 
instructed, and sent a cheque for £100 as compensation for poor service. Miss S was made 
aware that solicitors had been instructed on 2 April 2022 when she received the letter that 
prompted this complaint. I think £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for any upset 
caused by the short delay in being informed about this.
Was it fair for Bank of Scotland to instruct solicitors to start legal action?
Miss S lost her job during the Covid-19 pandemic. In late 2021 Miss S told Bank of Scotland 
she intended to sell the property. It put a hold on action, to allow her time to arrange this. In 
early 2022 Miss S told Bank of Scotland shed started a new job. In March 2022 she said 
she intended to sell the property. 
Miss S says she wanted to make mortgage payments but Bank of Scotland didnt allow this, 
or ask her what she could afford. However, Bank of Scotland told Miss S she needed to 
complete an income and expenditure discussion so it could agree an affordable 
arrangement. Without this, it couldnt fairly explore what options might be available to her. 
Miss S didnt complete an income and expenditure with Bank of Scotland. 
While Miss S told Bank of Scotland she intended to sell the property, she didnt confirm she 
had an offer or that she had put the property on the market. Miss S told Bank of Scotland in 
mid-May 2022 that she hadnt yet put the property on the market. 
When Bank of Scotland wrote to Miss S in late March 2022, her account was 10 months in 
arrears. The term of her mortgage was due to expire in late 2022 with an unpaid balance. 
Miss S said she could make monthly payments of about £400 until the property was sold  
this was less than half of her contractual monthly payment. All or part of the mortgage is on 
interest only terms, so even with these payments its likely the mortgage balance would 
continue to increase. 
Miss S lost her job during the pandemic, and I do appreciate that she doesnt want to lose 
her home. But because Miss S wasnt making payments, the amount she owed was 
increasing. Bank of Scotland had to consider whether it was fair to allow this to continue. In 
the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair for it to start legal action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman