DRN-3781114
The complaint
Mr S is complaining that he was mis-sold a bond by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), an 
appointed representative of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited (Gallium). He says he was 
told the bond was secure, low risk and spread over a variety of investments. He also says 
that he wasnt a sophisticated investor and was a pensioner putting his savings into an ISA 
to top up his state pension.
What happened
The B&G Plc Bond
Mr S invested £20,000 in a B&G Plc 3 Year Compounding High Yield IFISA Bond. Sales of 
this bond were dealt with by BG Ltd, a separate business from Basset & Gold Plc (B&G 
Plc), the issuer of the bond. BG Ltd arranged applications for investments in the bond, 
through a website it operated. And they were responsible for advertising and marketing the 
bonds. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd to discuss the bonds.
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited (Gallium) from 17 February 2017 to 28 February 2018.
Mr Ss investment in the bond
Mr S found details of the bonds being sold by BG Ltd following a search on the internet. He 
applied for the bond on 11 September 2017 after receiving several emails and phone calls 
from a representative of BG Ltd.
At the time, Mr S had no investment experience in these types of products. He had recently 
sold an investment property and wanted to use some of the proceeds to supplement his 
pension income. He wanted a product that was low risk and produced a return. He thought 
this was what he was applying for based on the information BG Ltd had sent him and given 
him over the phone. For example, he was told that the money in the bond was loaned to 
over 100 companies.
On 8 January 2019, B&G Finance Limited (which by that point had taken on the role of BG 
Ltd), sent an email to all investors then holding B&G Plc bonds. This referred to the fact that 
nearly all the money invested in B&G Plc bonds had been lent to one short term and pay 
day lender, called Uncle Buck. When he received this letter, Mr S phoned BG Ltd and he 
was told there was nothing to worry about and given lots of reassurance about the situation.
Following action by the FCA, Uncle Buck went into administration in March 2020 - and B&G 
Plc went into administration shortly afterwards. As a result, Mr S has not had his invested 
capital returned to him.
The application process
Mr S applied online 11 September 2017 and funded it with a cheque he sent in the post.
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. These show the 
application journey that Mr S underwent. This consisted of two stages, designed to meet 
the rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on how to test whether the 
investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was certification, where Mr S 
was categorised as an everyday investor by BG Ltd. The second was the appropriateness 
test. 
Galliums response to Mr Ss complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. They said Mr S had been given sufficient 
information and risk warnings about the investment. They then made further submissions 
once Mr Ss complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have 
also considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint and concluded it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr S as an everyday 
investor (the description Gallium used for what is described as a restricted 
investor in the regulatory rules) and the assessment of the appropriateness of the 
bond for him - was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with 
the FCAs rules.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory obligations. 
Had it done so, Mr S wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd should have 
concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr S to invest. For these reasons, both 
cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint and for Gallium to 
compensate Mr S for the loss he has suffered.
Galliums response to the view
Gallium didnt accept the investigators view. They said, in summary: 
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Ss complaint.
The website and marketing material werent misleading - Mr S was given sufficient 
information and risk warnings.
Regardless of label, Mr S was required to confirm that he met the requirements of a 
restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or reasonable to conclude 
that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr S giving an incorrect 
declaration, and it was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the declaration. 
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules.
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.Mr S made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and didnt 
choose to surrender it when he received the 2019 email warning of the concentration risk. 
So he would have proceeded with the investment regardless.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied its appropriate for me to consider all the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf 
of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, Ive 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was not readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full. 
I note Gallium have referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and to question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr S into certifying himself as belonging 
to a category to which he didnt belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr S fairly or acting in his best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr S, its unlikely he would 
have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr S. In the circumstances Mr S would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded they shouldnt promote the bond to Mr S.For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Ss complaint 
should be upheld. Im satisfied Mr S would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or wouldnt have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and reasonably 
to meet their regulatory obligations. And so Im satisfied its fair to ask Gallium to 
compensate Mr S for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim should be to put Mr S as close to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had not made the investments.
I take the view that Mr S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
B&G Plc 3 
Year 
Compounding 
High Yield 
IFISA BondStill exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of 
my final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr S agrees to Gallium taking 
ownership of the investment, if they wish to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership, then they may request an undertaking from Mr S that he repays to Gallium any 
amount he may receive from the investment in future.Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted to achieve a reasonable return without taking significant risk with his 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr S's 
circumstances and objectives. It doesnt mean that Mr S would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
Im upholding the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above. Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide 
details of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman