DRN-1248768
The complaint
Mr P has complained about U K Insurance Limited (UKI). He isnt happy that it wouldnt 
cover a claim under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P was on holiday when part of his trip had to be cancelled or changed because of a rail 
strike. Mr P was due to travel on a train overnight. But because of the strike his travel 
company rearranged his transport and accommodation so that he could continue the 
remaining part of his trip.
Mr P made a claim under his travel insurance policy but UKI turned down his claim. It said 
Mr Ps policy covered additional costs incurred after the first four hours delay of any pre-
booked flight, sailing, train or coach journey. And as Mr P didnt incur any additional costs he 
didnt have a valid claim under the policy. So Mr P complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Although he could 
understand Mr Ps disappointment he thought that UKI had acted in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. And as Mr P hadnt incurred any additional costs the policy didnt provide 
cover.
As Mr P didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr P, who had the inconvenience and 
disappointment of missing an important part of his holiday. But Mr Ps travel insurance (like 
most insurance products) doesnt cover every eventuality and I have to be fair to both sides 
in making my decision. I understand that other members of Mr Ps travelling party have 
successfully made claims under their insurance policies, but I cant comment on their 
circumstances and the level of cover they had in place. 
Ive looked at Mr Ps policy and as our investigator highlighted the cover doesnt provide 
cover for loss of enjoyment or curtailment in these circumstances. Mr P was able to continue 
his trip at no extra cost as his travel provider organised things for him, no doubt incurring 
costs for flights and accommodation. Obviously this train journey was important to Mr P and 
he didnt get chance to enjoy it, but his policy is very specific about what it will and wont 
cover. The policy only covers additional costs incurred four hours after Mr Ps train journey 
was cancelled. But as Mr P didnt incur any additional costs then there isnt anything to pay 
and so he doesnt have a claim under the policy.
I note that Mr P has said that his holiday would have cost less without the cost of the train 
journey and so the curtailment of the train journey has caused a financial loss. But, while I 
accept Mr Ps general point, that isnt what the travel agent says. The travel agent doesnt 
say that the trip wouldve been cheaper, but it does say it was an additional extra. However, 
the loss of the trip on the train isnt covered under the curtailment or cancellation part of the 
policy as the trip, as a whole, continued. 
It wouldve been covered under the delay part of the policy if Mr P incurred additional costs 
(such as travel and hotel accommodation) after he had been delayed for four hours. But he 
didnt incur any additional costs. As such, despite my natural sympathy for Mr P, I cant say 
UKI has done anything wrong in turning down his claim. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman