DRN-2060508
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mr C. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1995 alongside a store credit account. Mr C 
was sold the policy when he applied for the account in a shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Mr C has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. 
First, I should address one point. Mr C says he is unhappy about the PPI because he 
believes that selling it was illegal. This isnt actually true. Companies were allowed to sell 
PPI, and for some customers it did provide useful insurance in case they lost their income 
and so couldnt pay their debts. But also weve found that lots of PPI policies were mis-sold 
 meaning they were sold in an unfair way, for example because the customer was made to 
think they had no choice about taking the PPI; or because the customer wasnt told 
important information which might have made them decide the PPI wasnt worth the money 
in their circumstances. 
Ive checked all the different ways in which the PPI might have been mis-sold to Mr C, but I 
dont have strong evidence to show it was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The form, which Mr C signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which you make by filling in 
a box  and I can see on Mr Cs form that yes to PPI has been written in.  So I think, at the 
time, Mr C would have known he had a choice. 
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Cs 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr C to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Mr C clear and fair information, so he could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was 
given to Mr C. So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a 
difference. But in Mr Cs circumstances at the time, even if hed been given all the necessary 
information, I dont think its likely to have made a difference to his decision. 
I say this because its likely the PPI could have paid out for longer than his full employer sick 
pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. 
Also he could have kept any savings in reserve for longer, and he may have needed those 
savings to pay for other living costs if he lost his pay. Also, it doesnt look like hed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely 
still to have seemed potentially useful, and better information probably wouldnt have made a 
difference to whether or not Mr C took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman