DRN-3054203
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Home Retail) is holding 
him liable for the cost of a mobile telephone (phone) that he never received.
Reference to Home Retail in this decision also includes its agents.
What happened
On 2 December 2018 Mr Z purchased a phone costing £1,449 (using credit provided by 
Home Retail) for delivery to his home address. Mr Z purchased the phone on 12 months buy 
now pay later terms.
On 14 January 2019 Mr Z brought his complaint to our service for investigation.
On 21 February 2020 Home Retail issued Mr Z with a final response letter (FRL). Under 
cover of this FRL Home Retail said that it was satisfied that the phone had been successfully 
delivered and therefore it wasnt upholding Mr Zs complaint. It also brought to Mr Zs 
attention that his account was in arrears and that this needed to be addressed.
On 24 February 2020 Home Retail issued Mr Z with a Notice of Sums in Arrears. Under 
cover of this notice Home Retail advised Mr Z his account was in arrears of £151.09.
In, or around, May 2020 Home Retail wrote to Mr Z to say that his debt with it (standing at 
£2,063.30) had been passed to a debt collection agency authorised by it.
Mr Zs compliant was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
should be upheld. In summary he said:
he found Mr Zs testimony to be both plausible and persuasive 
he found Mr Zs decision to report non-receipt of the phone quickly, to report the 
matter to the police and to obtain assistance from Citizens Advice werent actions he 
would expect to see from somebody who had received what they had ordered
Home Retail has been unable to provide our service with a copy of the signed 
delivery note, a key document and one which it relied on heavily in concluding 
delivery of the phone (to Mr Z) had occurred
Mr Z, who appears to have had sight of the signed delivery note at some point 
previously, disputes the signature on it is his
Home Retail doesnt dispute that receipt of the phone was signed for by somebody 
with a different forename initial to Mr Z
The investigator then went on to outline what Home Retail should have to do to fairly 
compensate Mr Z. That was:
to recall the account from any third parties it might have been passed to, or sold to
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
remove any adverse information it may have recorded with third party credit 
reference agencies
Mr Z responded to say that he accepted the investigators view. However, Home Retail 
responded to say that it didnt. And because Home Retail didnt accept the investigators 
view the complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator, 
and for the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already 
been said.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, as some of its here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.   
Home Retail is holding Mr Z liable for a debt of £2,063.30 made up as follows:
Cash price of the phone £1,449.00
Interest (December 2019) £407.98
Interest (January 2020) £41.77
Charge (January 2020) £12.00
Interest (February 2020) £42.60
Charge (February 2020) £12.00
Interest (March 2020) £40.98
Charge (March 2020) £12.00
Interest (April 2020) £44.97
Total £2,063.30
Home Retail is holding Mr Z liable for the above sum because it says its satisfied the phone 
was successfully delivered to him in December 2018.
Now I cant say for certain what happened here. But given that Home Retail has been unable 
to provide our service with a copy of the signed delivery note, given it accepts that the phone 
was signed for by an individual with a different forename initial to Mr Z and given Mr Zs 
consistent, plausible and persuasive submissions, I find on the balance of probabilities Mr Z 
didnt receive the phone Home Retail is holding him financially liable for.I can see that the investigator suggested it was possible that the phone was signed for, and 
retained, by an individual living at a different flat but at the same postal address as Mr Z. But 
having found that Mr Z didnt receive the phone, I need make no finding on who might have 
done.
Putting things right
Given that Ive found that Mr Z didnt receive the phone it follows that he shouldnt be held 
liable for the cost of it, or for any charges in respect of it.
Its my understanding that since June 2019 the only item outstanding on Mr Zs account with 
Home Retail was the phone costing £1,449. Therefore the balance of £2,063.30 (being 
sought by Home Retail) is made up entirely of the phone cost and charges in respect of it.
So in my view the appropriate thing for Home Retail to do in this case, to fairly and 
reasonably compensate Mr Z, is to:
recall the account if it has been passed to, or sold to, a third party
reduce the account balance to zero and close it off
remove any adverse information it may have recorded with credit reference agencies 
about Mr Zs account to the extent this adverse information relates to the disputed 
phone purchase
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Home Retail Group Card Services Limited to put things 
right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman