DRN-3279269
The complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money did not transfer money to
his bank account as requested when an item was refunded to his credit card.
Mr H is represented by his wife in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill
refer to any submission and comments she has made as being made by Mr H himself.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr H received a refund of £1,765.80 from a third party company to his credit
card account with Virgin. Mr H contacted Virgin to ask them to credit the refund to his bank
account, but Virgin said they would only be able to do so as a money transfer which would
attract a handling fee.
Mr H complained to Virgin, who did not uphold his complaint. They said as the payment was
made from the credit card, the refund had to be made back to the credit card. Virgin said if
Mr H wanted to transfer money from his credit card to his bank account then this would need
to be completed as a money transfer and would incur a 5% handling fee.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. He explained that the purchase was made on
behalf of a third party. He said that the person had lost their job as a result of the pandemic
and he needed Virgin to transfer the money to his current account so he could pay the
person back. Mr H said that due to the pandemic, financial institutions should have had
money set aside to assist people in difficulty so they should have helped him.
Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. She said as the payment was made to the
credit card, then it was refunded back via the same method. She said that Virgin wouldnt
have been aware that the payment was made on behalf of somebody else. Our investigator
said that Virgin had offered to transfer the money to his current account, but Virgin would be
entitled to charge a money transfer fee. She concluded that Virgin had not acted unfairly.
Mr H asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that Virgin had a duty to
help people in financial difficulties due to the pandemic and that another credit card provider
had refunded money to his bank account and not his credit card.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr H has said about how Virgin should have money set aside to help
people in financial difficulty during the pandemic. The payment was made on behalf of a third
party, who wasnt a cardholder on the account. Mr Hs wife as the additional cardholder told
Virgin on a call Ive listened to that it was not her money and the refund was to pay other
people who were not working, which is causing stress and hardship to those waiting for the
funds.
So although the situation may have been causing distress to Mr H, as the primary
cardholder, Mr H did not inform Virgin that he himself was in financial difficulties and there is
no indication that he was in financial difficulties due to the pandemic. I say this as the full
statement balance has been paid each month and Mr Hs representative told us that they
were both working during the pandemic. As it was explained to Virgin that this was not his
money, then in effect, he had acted as an intermediary for the payment. So Virgin were
under no obligation to provide any pandemic related assistance here that may be available
to Mr H if he was suffering financial difficulties due to the pandemic.
Its important to explain that the company who have provided the refund have made this by
the same method as how Mr H had made the original payment  via the Virgin credit card.
So Virgin themselves did not refund this money. Virgins terms and conditions, which Mr H
will have needed to agree to prior to opening the account show under section 9.2 if you
receive a refund to your account after your statement date, you must still pay the remaining
balance or the minimum payment. If you pay before your statement date, your balance will
be reduced.
So I do think the terms and conditions are clear that any refunds would reduce the
outstanding balance. Ive considered what Mr H has said about how another credit card
provider has refunded money to his bank account. But here, I can only consider the merits of
the complaint he has brought to us. Each company will have their own processes they
follow, which will differ from one company to another. So in order to uphold Mr Hs complaint,
I would need to see that Virgin havent followed their process. Their process is not to refund
transactions to a cardholders bank account as they explained over the phone with different
call handlers and in their final response letter, which is what they have followed here. As we
are not the regulators, we cant tell a business how to run their own processes, we can only
ensure that they have followed their process, which Im satisfied they did here for the
reasons Ive already given.
Mr H normally pays off the statement balance each month via direct debit. So although he
wanted the refund to be transferred to his bank account, the refund reduced the amount he
would need to pay on his next statement by the amount of the refund. Ive looked at his
statements and these show that due to the refund his March 2021 statement balance was
reduced to £188.47. If the refund was credited to his bank account, then he would have
owed £1,954.27 (the statement balance plus the refund). So Mr H could have used the
money that he would have paid on his following statement to refund the people he would
have done if Virgin had made the refund.
In summary, Mr H strongly feels that Virgin were unfair by not processing the refund to his
bank account. But Im satisfied, for the reasons Ive already given that Virgin correctly
followed their process. So it follows I dont intend to ask Virgin to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Virgin responded to my provisional decision and said they had no further 
information to submit to me. Mr H did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman