DRN-4258057
The complaint
Miss M complains Revolut Ltd registered a fraud marker at CIFAS, the national fraud 
database. She doesnt think its done so fairly.
What happened
Miss M held an account with Revolut. Between 10 and 12 December 2022, her 
account was credited with a number of payments from third parties through bank transfers. 
Immediately afterwards, a lot of the money was withdrawn through payments to a 
cryptocurrency business who I shall refer to as N. 
Payments into the account were identified as fraudulent because several of the banks from 
which the funds had come, notified Revolut that their customers had been the victim of a 
fraud.  Miss M told Revolut that she didnt recognise or authorise any payments on her 
account from 9 December. Revolut investigated and said that following a review, it would be 
withdrawing banking facilities and closing her account.
Miss M found it difficult to get banking facilities elsewhere (after another provider also closed 
her account). Upon making a subject access request, CIFAS told Miss M that Revolut had 
also recorded a misuse of facility marker against her.
Miss M complained to Revolut. She said she wasnt involved in anything that had led up to 
the marker. She thought scammers were involved in what had happened and she didnt think 
Revolut had treated her fairly. But Revolut didnt think the activity could have happened 
without Miss Ms knowledge or involvement. It didnt accept that someone had taken over 
the account. It believed it had correctly recorded the marker and wouldnt agree to remove it. 
Miss M referred matters to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. Ultimately, 
she thought that Revolut had acted fairly in the circumstances. She noted that Revoluts 
records showed that an earlier payment to N had been held for a fraud check and was 
verified by Miss M as being genuine on its online app chat facility.  The evidence also 
showed the payments to N had been made using Miss Ms mobile banking app and from a 
mobile device that matched hers. She noted that Revolut had also sent SMS messages to 
the phone to assist in verifying the payments. And as shed not disclosed her mobile banking 
information/passcodes to anyone or lost her phone, the investigator couldnt understand how 
the payments could have been made, unless Miss M was complicit in some way. 
Miss M disagreed so the complaint has come to me. In summary, she has made the 
following points:
- She would never have spoken to Revolut about N and cryptocurrency.
- She hadnt got any SMS messages from Revolut about the transactions. 
- She believed scammers had got her details and made the transactions by getting into 
her phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, for the purposes of clarity this decision will only focus on the complaint brought 
against Revolut. It will not deal with or comment on any other complaints Miss M may have 
about other respondent businesses. 
The marker that Revolut has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, its not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss M is guilty of a fraud of 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says, there must be reasonable grounds to believe that an 
identified fraud or financial crime has been committed or attempted and the evidence must 
be clear, relevant, and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered Miss Ms account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that Miss M was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. To meet the standard of 
proof required to register a fraud marker; the bank must carry out checks of sufficient depth 
and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the account holder the 
opportunity to explain the activity on their account to understand their level of knowledge and 
intention. 
Miss M says she doesnt know anything about fraudulent funds crediting and leaving her 
account from 9 December. She has said the first she knew about this was when she got 
back from her holiday. So, I need to decide whether I think Revolut has enough evidence to 
show fraudulent funds entered Miss Ms account and she was complicit. And Im satisfied it 
has. Ill explain why.
Ive seen evidence from Revolut that it received reports from a number of different third-party 
banks saying that some funds which entered Miss Ms account were fraudulent. Miss M 
doesnt dispute this  but she says she has no knowledge of why those payments were 
made.
 
Once the funds entered Miss Ms account, transfers were carried out fairly quickly to
N using the Revolut mobile banking app registered to Miss Ms account. I can say this 
because Ive reviewed Revoluts mobile banking records and the device used to make the 
payments is the same device that Miss M had registered with it. And there were no other 
new devices or numbers added. 
Miss M says this wasnt her making the payments, including the payment to N on 10 
December for £1900 that was verified as genuine during an on-line app chat. Shes also said 
that no one else knew her mobile banking details and passwords as shed never disclosed or 
shared them either directly or through links. She lives alone and her phone wasnt missing. 
However, thinking about this its difficult to see how someone could have done this and 
made the payments without her knowledge if all her details and information were kept 
secure. Miss M has said scammers must have got into her phone and carried out the transactions,  
but theres no tangible evidence to support this is what happened. Also, presumably she 
would have still got the SMS messages. But she says she didnt. Overall, I consider the 
possibility of scammers doing this without Miss Ms involvement is highly unlikely based on 
the available information and Im satisfied the mobile banking app records are compelling 
evidence in this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss M is facing opening an account, but Im not 
going to require Revolut to do anything further here. For the reasons Ive outlined, I 
think Revolut followed the relevant guidance when loading the fraud marker.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman