DRN-3381951
The complaint
Ms S has complained about the premium increase applied to her car insurance policy at 
renewal following an incident which led to a claim. Her insurer Tesco Underwriting Limited 
has since settled the claim as a fault claim against Ms S.
What happened
Tesco received a claim from a third party against Ms Ss policy in October 2021 and 
contacted her. A motorcyclist said that they had swerved to avoid a collision with Ms Ss car 
as she changed lanes without warning. As a result, the motorcyclist came off their bike and 
their bike was damaged.
Ms S said she wasnt involved in an incident. The third party representative provided a 
statement from an independent witness who was a driver behind both vehicles. The witness 
supported the motorcyclists version of events.
The incident happened just before Ms Ss policy was due for renewal. So because there was 
an open claim under the policy  which Tesco was investigating  this had an impact on the 
premium Ms S was to pay from the renewal date. Ms S was very unhappy about the 
increase in premium. 
Tesco said the premium was correct while it was investigating the claim. So it didnt uphold 
Ms Ss complaint. 
Ms S brought her complaint to us and she complained about Tescos decision to record the 
claim as a fault claim. She believed the claim to be fraudulent and she wanted Tesco to 
reduce her premium to the level it was before it received the claim.
Our Investigator thought Tesco had acted reasonably and in line with the policy terms. As 
there was an open claim at renewal, she thought Tesco was entitled to take this into account 
when calculating the renewal premium for Ms S. And as the claim was to be settled in the 
same way, the Investigator didnt think Tesco needed to do anything differently. 
Ms S didnt agree. In summary she feels Tesco has given the third party information more 
credit than her own account without any factual evidence. 
So Ms S wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco received a claim from a third party following an alleged incident just after it had issued 
its renewal documents to Ms S. Tesco issued revised renewal documents to Ms S a few 
days later showing an increase in premium as a result of the claim. 
Where a claim is made against a policy, its standard in the industry for an insurer to 
calculate the premium  if the claim is still open at renewal  taking the claim into account. 
If the claim ultimately settles as a non-fault claim, an insurer should provide a refund of any 
overpaid premium to the customer. So at the time of renewal, I dont think Tesco acted 
unreasonably in applying the increase in premium. 
I understand Ms S is very unhappy about a claim being recorded against her as a fault claim. 
She says she wasnt involved in the incident and no contact was made between the 
vehicles. 
We dont decide liability  but we can look at whether an insurer reached its decision 
reasonably and in line with policy. 
Ms Ss policy with Tesco has a term Ive seen in most  if not all car insurance policies. This 
term says Tesco can take over the defence and settlement of a claim in Ms Ss name. We 
dont find this an unfair term in principle provided an insurer can show it treated its customer 
fairly when applying it. 
In this case, Tesco sought CCTV evidence but there wasnt any available. It received 
statements from the motorcyclist and an independent witness. The witness provided details 
of Ms Ss car and a descriptive account which supported the motorcyclists account. Tesco 
received an engineers report confirming the damage caused to the motorbike.  
None of the parties say there was contact with Ms Ss vehicle. But that doesnt mean Tesco 
has reached its decision to settle the claim as a fault claim in an unreasonable way. I think it 
properly investigated the claim. I think it considered the available evidence and what a Judge 
would most likely decide if the case were to proceed to court. Court costs can be significant.  
Under the policy terms an insurer is entitled to decide that its better to settle a claim based 
on their experience and knowledge of likely outcomes  than to risk increased costs in 
defending the matter to court. 
I appreciate that the impact of the claim has affected Ms S in a negative way. But I think 
Tesco has treated Ms S as it would any other customer in the same position  and so I cant 
say its done anything wrong. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms S. But this means Im not asking Tesco to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman