DRN-3309704
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly defaulted his 
credit card account and recorded adverse data on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr K says he missed a payment to his credit card account in early 2020 and that 
Barclaycard defaulted his account and recorded adverse information on his credit file. But he 
says this is unfair because when he tried to make a payment he found that his account had 
been removed from his on-line banking; calls to Barclaycard went unanswered; and, a visit 
to a branch to make a payment was unsuccessful. So, he complained to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard looked into Mr Ks concerns. But it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It 
said that Mr Ks account was six months in arrears when the default notice was issued in        
April 2020. It acknowledged that call waiting times had increased due to pandemic. But it 
said calls were still being answered and that it was Mr Ks responsibility to contact it. 
Unhappy with the response, Mr K referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into it, but he didnt think Barclaycard had acted incorrectly. In 
summary, he noted that Mr Ks payment problems started in mid-2019 and that Barclaycard 
had been communicating with him about the status of his account and what would happen if 
further payments werent made from 2019 onwards. He noted that Barclaycards phone lines 
had been impacted by the pandemic. But he hadnt seen anything to suggest Mr K couldnt 
have made a payment before then had he wanted to. 
Mr K didnt accept this outcome. And he provided screenshots showing the length of time 
hed been waiting for his phone calls to be answered and an attempt to contact Barclaycard 
via its Live Chat facility.
Another investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint. But  overall, he agreed with the original 
investigators findings. Mr K disagreed, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
Mr K has also raised a complaint about the delays incurred during this services handling of 
his complaint. That matter is being addressed under separate correspondence.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to ask Barclaycard to remove the default, I would need to be satisfied that 
Barclaycard prevented Mr K from making his payments or made an error in how it reported 
the adverse data to the credit reference agencies (CRA). But Im not persuaded that it has 
made an error. Ill explain why.
Mr K hasnt disputed that his account was in arrears. And it seems he was aware he needed 
to make a payment to prevent further action being taken as says he wanted to make a 
payment. But essentially Mr K is saying he was prevented from making a payment due to 
problems with Barclaycards services.
But as the investigator has explained, Barclaycard was writing to Mr K about the status of his 
account from as early as December 2019. So, I think Mr K was aware what he needed to do 
to prevent further action being taken before the pandemic lockdown restrictions were 
introduced in late March 2020. And Im not persuaded that Mr K wouldnt have been able to 
contact Barclaycard to make a payment before the end of March 2020 if he had wanted to. 
 
But the Notice of Default was sent on 28 April 2020  after the pandemic lockdown 
restrictions started, and this gave Mr K until 28 May 2020 to repay the debt to ensure the 
default wasnt registered. So, Ive thought carefully about what Mr K has said about being 
prevented from making payment due the impact the pandemic had on Barclaycards 
services.
Mr K says he tried calling Barclaycard, but his calls werent answered. Barclaycard hasnt 
disputed that it was experiencing long call waiting times. But this all happened at the start of 
the pandemic and businesses had to significantly adjust the way they worked. So, I think any 
delays reflect the challenging environment Barclaycard was operating under rather than any 
error. And Barclaycard has said that calls were ultimately being answered  which I have no 
reason to doubt. So, I think its most likely Mr K would have been able to get through to 
someone able to assist him if hed waited long enough. I do of course appreciate that long 
waiting times are frustrating, but when matters are urgent - as was the case here - there is a 
need to persevere. 
In any event, from the information presented to me, Im persuaded Mr Ks attempts at 
making a payment were most likely too late to avoid the account defaulting. Thats not 
because I dispute that Mr K tried to make a payment. But the timing of Mr K attempts to 
make payment are important here. 
As mentioned above, Mr K had until 28 May 2020 to make payment before the default was 
registered. Mr K has provided screenshots of calls made from his mobile. While these show 
the length of the call, they dont show the date the call was made. And as he says the calls 
didnt connect, I dont think these calls would show on an itemised phone bill. So, I cant be 
sure when he made those calls. But he has provided one photo of a call made from a 
landline phone. This shows a call was made in June 2020, which was after the default was 
registered. 
In addition, a call note recorded by Barclaycard when he raised his complaint in June 2020 
says Mr K wants default removing as he says for the last two weeks he has tried to call and 
been on hold for over three hours but had no resolution. This suggests to me that the default 
was already in place when Mr K had been trying to contact Barclaycard by phone. So, even 
if he had managed to get through, Im not persuaded this would have had any impact on the 
default having been registered.Mr K has also said he visited a branch. And I have no reason to think that Mr K didnt go to a 
branch. But he hasnt said the branch refused to serve him  rather, he says he was told the 
branch couldnt help as it was a Barclaycard account and his account was closed. I dont 
think Mr Ks account would have been closed before the default was registered. Barclaycard 
had been writing to him encouraging him to make payment  and earlier letters sent to Mr K 
provided instructions on how to make a bank transfer in branch. So, although, I havent seen 
anything to show the date of the branch visit, as Mr K was told his account was closed, I 
think it was most likely after the default had been registered.
Mr K has also said his access to the account via on-line banking was removed. Barclaycard 
has provided its procedures for removing on-line access. These show the on-line access is 
only stopped for a limited number of reasons  this includes when an account is defaulted. 
So, again, I think its unlikely that on-line access would have been removed before the 
default was registered. So, if Mr K tried to make a payment using his on-line access before 
28 May 2020, I think its most likely he would have been able to do so.
   
I know Mr K is concerned about the impact the default will have on any future credit 
applications  such as, a mortgage application. But Barclaycard has a responsibility to report 
accurately to the CRA. So, even before the default was registered, Barclaycard was required 
to report the missed payments. And I think this information alone would have an impact on 
any future credit application Mr K may wish to make. 
Overall, while I understand Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, I havent seen 
enough to make me think Mr K attempted to contact Barclaycard to make a payment before 
the account was defaulted. So, I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong when it recorded 
the default on Mr Ks credit file. And it follows that I wont be asking Barclaycard to remove 
this information from his credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman