DRN-3492038
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Leeds Building Society wrongly included land near to her property in 
its charge when she re-mortgaged. She asks that it compensates her for the costs involved 
in releasing the land from the charge. 
What happened
Mrs H re-mortgaged with Leeds in 2018. The mortgage was recommended by a broker. 
Mrs H took out a legal assisted product. That meant that Leeds paid the basic legal costs 
associated with the mortgage. 
In 2021 Mrs H wanted to transfer a piece of land she owned near to her property. She found 
out that Leeds charge was also registered on this land (which Ill refer to as the land). 
Leeds agreed to release its charge on the land. However, Mrs H incurred costs, including 
legal fees, a £65 fee to Leeds and a fee to the Land Registry. Leeds said the land was 
included in its charge because it shared the same title number as Mrs Hs main property. 
Mrs H says this was unfair. She says as a matter of conveyancing procedure, where two 
properties share a title number and only one is to be charged the registration of the charge 
should make the extent of the charged property clear. She said on the title plan her main 
property is tinted pink to distinguish it from the land, and the previous charge was only on 
that part. Mrs H said the conveyancer would have seen this when checking the title and 
registering the charge, and should have registered Leeds charge in the same way. Mrs H 
says Leeds hasnt provided a satisfactory response to these points or to her complaint.
Our investigator said Leeds hadnt acted unfairly. It told Mrs H it recorded its charge against 
the property title, which included the land. Our investigator said if Mrs H wanted to split the 
land from the property title, shed have always needed to instruct her own solicitor to do this. 
Mrs H didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage  with the legal assisted product  was recommended by a broker. Only basic 
legal work is included, and the solicitors appointed by Leeds wrote to Mrs H saying this. 
Leeds says the solicitors it instructs in relation to a standard re-mortgage with a legal 
assisted product undertake limited work. The assumption is that any legal risks would have 
been addressed when the borrower bought the property. The solicitors acted for Leeds.
Mrs H says Leeds (or its solicitor) should have advised her that the title needed to be split. 
But I dont think it was their responsibility to advise Mrs H about her property title. Mrs H 
could have instructed solicitors herself if she needed advice.
Mrs H says as a matter of conveyancing procedure, where two properties share a title 
number and only one is to be charged the registration of the charge should make the extent 
of the charged property clear. In effect, Mrs H is saying that Leeds should have instructed its 
solicitors to register the mortgage on part only of the property title. But, in fairness, this would 
only be the case if Leeds was aware that the title included two properties and it was agreed 
between Leeds and Mrs H that only one property was to be subject to the charge. 
Leeds instructed its solicitors to register the charge against the property, referring to the 
name of the property and the title number. Mrs H hasnt said  or provided evidence that  
she told Leeds or its solicitors the land was to be excluded from the charge. I dont think its 
reasonable to say that Leeds should have known this was what she wanted. And I dont 
think its reasonable to say that Leeds should have asked Mrs H (or instructed its solicitors to 
ask her) about the land and whether she wanted it to be excluded from the charge. 
Mrs H says that part of the title was tinted pink, and a previous charge was recorded only on 
the part tinted pink. She says the conveyancer would have seen this. But even if Leeds was 
aware of this, I dont think it needed to investigate why this was or record its charge in the 
same way. 
In order for Mrs H to transfer the land in 2021, she had to split the title. This was something 
shed always have needed to do  and incur the related costs  before transferring the land 
separately from the rest of her property. This might have been easier (and cheaper) if Leeds 
charge wasnt recorded against the land. But, as I said, I dont think Leeds knew in 2018 that 
Mrs H expected this. 
Mrs H says Leeds didnt respond to all of her complaint points. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity, which means I cant usually look into how a complaint is dealt with. While I 
can look into how a complaint was dealt with if it impacts on resolving the underlying 
problem, I dont think that was the case here. Leeds agreed to release the land from its 
security and told Mrs H what steps she needed to take for it to do this. 
I dont think Leeds treated Mrs H unfairly. I dont think, in fairness, Leeds knew  or should 
have known  in 2018 that Mrs H wanted the land to be excluded from the mortgage. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Leeds to pay compensation to 
Mrs H.
I cant look into the actions of the solicitors. I understand Mrs H is pursuing a complaint 
about the solicitors separately.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman