DRN-3706453
The complaint
Mr B complains his insurer West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) declined his claim after his 
motorcycle was stolen. 
What happened
Mr B says he came home at around 8pm and put his lock on his motorcycle since he was 
going out again later that evening. When he went to go out around two hours later Mr B says 
he saw his motorcycle had been stolen. 
Mr Bs claim was declined by West Bay because his motorcycle was not in locked storage 
which is where it is required to be kept when he is at his home address. 
Mr B says its unfair for the insurer to expect him to lock his bike away as soon as he gets 
home especially when he is planning on going out later. Mr B says the insurer has quoted a 
clause which allows it to decline the claim since the bike wasnt locked in a garage at the 
time of the theft.  
Mr B traded in his previous bike and took out finance in order to purchase the motorcycle. 
He is unhappy because he says he has no bike but is still paying the finance. 
Mr B complained to West Bay and said he wants it to honour the policy. 
West Bay insurance said Mr B agreed to keep his vehicle in his private locked garage or 
building at his home address under the terms of the policy. West Bay said since the theft 
occurred within a 500-metre radius of Mr Bs home and the vehicle was not locked in the 
garage it is unable to consider the claim for settlement. 
Mr B wasnt happy with the response from West Bay and so referred his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. She said she checked the policy documents and 
they clearly state an exclusion for theft when the motorcycle is not locked in a private 
garage. And on that basis West Bay were within its rights to decline the claim. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said when he took the insurance out he was asked if the vehicle was 
garaged overnight or parked on the road. He said locking the motorcycle in the garage every 
time he arrives home for any length of time is not practical. 
Since Mr B doesnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and 
I know this isnt the answer he wanted. I will explain my decision below. 
Although Ive read and considered the evidence provided to me Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on the specific point its not because I havent 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome. 
The Services approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurer acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly, and it 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. So Ive thought about whether West Bay acted in line 
with this. The endorsement on Mr Bs policy states, if you have stated that you will keep 
your motorcycle in a garage you must ensure it is kept there when unattended at ALL times 
whilst at the declared garaging address in order for theft cover to apply.
West Bay says it declined the claim because at the time of the theft the vehicle wasnt stored 
in the garage as required by Mr Bs policy. 
Mr B was sent copies of his insurance documents by post. In the covering letter West Bay 
provided a checklist asking Mr B to read through the document pack to ensure the insurer 
had the correct information. It also asked Mr B to read through the exclusions and limitations 
in the pack and to check the policy met his needs. 
The Motorcycle Policy Schedule includes an endorsement titled Excluding theft when not in 
a private garage that says, amongst other things, you have agreed that you will keep your 
vehicle in your private locked garage or building, at your home address.  The endorsement 
goes on to say, if a theft or attempted theft of your vehicle happens at any time and within a 
500-metre radius of your home address when the vehicle is not locked in this garage or 
building we will not pay the claim. 
So I think the requirement to keep the vehicle in the locked garage was clearly defined when 
Mr B took out his policy. I think it is also made clear in the policy documents that cover is 
excluded when this requirement isnt met. When Mr B received his policy documents he had 
an opportunity to amend any details or information he wasnt happy with but he didnt do this. 
Mr B says its not practical for him to lock away his bike in the garage every time he returns 
home. But that is what he agreed to when he took out the policy. And so I think it was fair 
and reasonable for West Bay to rely on the exclusion to decline Mr Bs claim. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr B but having reviewed the information 
provided in this case Im satisfied West Bay acted fairly and within the terms of the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman