DRN-2910921
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc delayed applying a product switch to his 
account. 
What happened
Mr B took out an interest only mortgage with Bank of Ireland in 2006. The term is due to 
expire in 2026.
In late 2019 Mr B applied for a product switch. Bank of Ireland asked for information about 
how hed repay the mortgage. It said the product switch couldnt go ahead until it received all 
the information it requested.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties to set out what I thought about this complaint. I 
said it was reasonable for Bank of Ireland to ask how the mortgage would be repaid. But it 
wasnt fair to decline a product switch solely for this reason. I said Bank of Ireland should 
apply the product switch and back date it to December 2019, paying 8% interest on the 
refund. I said Bank of Ireland should pay £200 for the trouble caused to Mr B.
Bank of Ireland didnt agree. It questioned if its within the remit of this service to require it to 
grant Mr B a certain rate, backdate it and add interest. It said it cant be construed as unfair 
not to agree to a change to the terms and conditions of a mortgage  here to allow Mr B to 
take out a new product. Bank of Ireland said theres no regulation requiring it to offer a rate 
switch.
Bank of Ireland said it had treated Mr B fairly. It said it asked Mr B for documents that he 
didnt provide. It said it was entitled to ask how the mortgage would be repaid, and for further 
information as the funds were coming from overseas. I asked Bank of Ireland to explain 
more and it then said it was following a customer due diligence process, in accordance with 
its own policy and relevant regulations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs complaint is that Bank of Ireland didnt apply a product switch to his mortgage 
account.
Mr B met with a mortgage adviser in December 2019 and it seems he met the criteria for a 
five-year fixed interest rate product. He had more than five years left before his mortgage 
was due to expire, and as far as Im aware his payments were up to date.
Bank of Ireland used the opportunity to ask Mr B for information about how he intended to 
repay his interest only mortgage at the end of the term. I dont think it was unfair to ask about 
this. Lenders should be in contact with customers with interest only mortgages about their 
plans to repay the balance.
Mr B said he intended to sell property overseas. Bank of Ireland asked for more information 
about this. Later in December it asked for more detailed information about all the properties 
Mr B owned overseas, including evidence of the rental income he received from commercial 
property. It also asked for information about Mr Bs UK income, savings and bank accounts. 
Bank of Ireland and Mr B continued to correspond for some months about what information 
should be provided.
In summary, Mr B said hed been a UK citizen for three decades. He said he has an 
overseas property which he uses himself when he visits family. And another overseas 
property which is rented out with the income used primarily to support his parents. Mr B 
provided three months statements for a UK bank account showing his earned income, and 
three months statements for another UK account from which he makes mortgage payments.
Bank of Ireland wasnt satisfied. It said as Mr B had said he intended to sell property 
overseas to repay the mortgage it required details of his overseas properties. It asked for 
proof of ownership of the properties, a recent valuation, and evidence of the income 
generated. Mr B said he didnt have this with him in the UK, and Bank of Ireland had no need 
to see it.
Like other UK banks, Bank of Ireland has to comply with regulations and have policies in 
place to ensure it understands its customers and business risks. Its required to carry out 
customer due diligence, not just when it establishes a customer relationship but also to 
update this during the relationship.
I think Bank of Ireland caused unnecessary confusion here. It appeared to be asking for 
information to establish whether Mr B could repay the mortgage in 2026. In fact, it was 
following a customer due diligence process. Its clear from Mr Bs responses he didnt 
understand why Bank of Ireland was asking for detailed information and evidence about his 
income and assets in relation to a product switch. I appreciate that at some point Bank of 
Ireland might need to satisfy itself about the source of the funds used to repay the mortgage. 
And, as Ive said, it has to update the information it holds about customers. Im not making 
any findings here about whether it was right or fair for Bank of Ireland to ask Mr B for 
information, or whether this was required by its own policy or regulations. This isnt what the 
complaint is about. 
The question here is whether, in the circumstances, it was fair for Bank of Ireland to delay 
(or decline entirely) applying a new interest rate product to Mr Bs account. I dont think it 
was fair.
I should say here that while its usual for customers to take out a new interest rate product 
when their old one expires, there isnt  and never has been  a contractual or regulatory 
requirement for lenders to offer new products to customers when their old ones expire.
However, Bank of Ireland has to treat customers fairly, and consider whats in their best 
interests. Its most likely in Mr Bs best interests to take out a new product with a lower 
interest rate, rather than stay on Bank of Irelands standard variable rate (SVR).
Bank of Ireland offers new interest rate products to existing customers, and Mr B met the 
criteria for a five-year fixed interest rate product. I think its unlikely Bank of Ireland generally 
asks existing customers for the amount of information it requested from Mr B before allowing 
them to take out a new product. I understand that Bank of Ireland might need to ask Mr B for 
information for another reason, or to meet regulatory requirements. But I dont think it was 
reasonable for it to refuse to apply an interest rate product while it did this.Although Bank of Ireland applied its SVR, Mr B made payments as if the product was in 
place. Mr B also made some extra payments, so its unclear if this caused his mortgage to 
fall into arrears.
Putting things right
I think Bank of Ireland should put Mr B into the position he would be in if the five-year 
interest rate product chosen during his appointment with the mortgage adviser had been 
applied. So it should:
A. Apply the interest rate product to Mr Bs account from 1 January 2020, immediately after 
the expiry of his previous product. 
B. Calculate the difference between the interest applied to Mr Bs account at the SVR from 
1 January 2020 as compared to the interest that would have been applied at the product 
rate.
C. Calculate the amount Mr B paid into his mortgage account from 1 January 2020 in 
excess of the interest that would have been applied at the product rate.
D. Pay the result of the calculation in B to Mr B (up to the amount calculated in C) with 8% 
simple interest* from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
E. Remove any adverse data recorded on Mr Bs credit files due to him making interest 
payments at the product rate, rather than the SVR.
F. Pay £200 compensation for the upset caused.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to deduct tax from this 
interest, it should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to take the steps 
and make the payments set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman