DRN-4146215
The complaint
Mr J complains about delays and poor service from British Gas Services Limited 
(British Gas) in relation to his Homecare agreement.
Any reference to British Gas includes its respective agents unless specified otherwise.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known in detail to the parties involved so Ill summarise 
what Ive found to be the key points.
During the annual service under his British Gas Homecare agreement, Mr J says the 
engineer blew a circuit board in his boiler but said they couldnt repair it as they 
werent qualified to do so. Mr J says this left him without heating and hot water until 
the following day when British Gas sent another engineer to repair the issue.
Just before Christmas, Mr Js boiler broke down leaving him without heating and hot 
water. The earliest engineer appointment with British Gas was around two weeks 
later. Mr J says he tried several times to get through to a call handler to raise the 
urgency of his issue and the fact he was on the priority list, but there was a wait of 
several hours and he couldnt get through.
Given the time of year and cold weather, Mr J needed a working boiler as soon as 
possible. He therefore reached out to friends and managed to secure the help of one 
of them to fix his boiler. Unhappy with the service from British Gas, he tried to cancel 
the policy but still couldnt get through to it on the relevant phone number. He 
therefore made a complaint and managed to cancel the cover the following month. 
British Gas charged him a cancellation fee. Mr J didnt think this was fair and asked it 
to refund this along with the premiums hed paid for the policy. British Gas didnt 
agree to refund the premiums, but it recognised that Mr J wouldve been 
disappointed that it let him down and it apologised that the level of service he 
received wasnt to the standard he expected. In recognition of this, it paid him a total 
of £100 compensation (inclusive of a refund of his cancellation fee of £8.54). 
Mr J brought his complaint to this Service. Our investigator upheld it in part. She 
didnt agree that Mr Js premiums should be refunded to him as she found hed 
benefitted from the cover during the period the premiums were paid, and so she said 
it was fair British Gas retained these. But she didnt think the timescale for an 
engineer visit was reasonable, especially given the fact Mr J was on a priority register 
with British Gas and she considered the impact this had on him. 
She recognised the worry caused to Mr J by not having heating and hot water during 
winter and the prospect of this going on for weeks. While the boiler was fixed much 
sooner than this, she said it was at Mr Js inconvenience in having to ask friends to 
resolve the matter instead of being able to rely on his British Gas policy. To put 
things right, she said British Gas should pay Mr J a total of £150 compensation (£50 
more than its original offer).
Mr J accepted the investigators findings, but British Gas disagreed. It said it hadnt 
treated Mr J unfairly as it adhered to the policy terms by offering him a reasonable 
appointment in what was essentially its busiest time of year. It said Mr J managed to 
sort his boiler within 24 hours, so he wasnt without heating or hot water for a 
prolonged period. It therefore felt the issue had been resolved in a timely manner, so 
no further compensation was required. 
The complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J didnt disagree with the investigators findings about the policy premiums. I agree 
these shouldnt be refunded, for broadly the same reasons already explained to Mr J, 
so I wont be directing British Gas to do anything further in relation to this.
That leaves the matter of compensation for distress and inconvenience. From what 
Ive seen, British Gas agreed it let Mr J down when he made his complaint. And its 
not in dispute that compensation should be paid as a result. 
Our investigator said this should be increased by £50 but British Gas disagrees, 
saying it offered Mr J a reasonable appointment and his loss of heating and hot water 
was resolved quickly, so the compensation already offered is sufficient. 
On balance of what Ive seen and considering whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, I can understand why Mr J didnt think two weeks was a reasonable 
appointment timescale - especially because his boiler issues affected his heating and 
hot water during the cold winter months. I can understand why this wouldve caused 
him considerable worry and upset and prompted him to look at other options of help.
British Gas says it has no record of Mr J calling to notify it of the urgency of his boiler 
issues and that had he done this, an engineer may have been able to attend sooner. 
It argues that it cant be held accountable for something Mr J didnt make it aware of. 
Mr J says he attempted to speak to British Gas but was unable to get through. As his 
call attempts never connected to a call handler, I dont think its unusual for these not 
to show on call records. And given that by British Gas own admission, Mr Js request 
for an engineers visit was at its busiest time of year, Im persuaded by Mr Js 
testimony that because the lines were so busy, he couldnt get through.
While Mr J did manage to find a way to resolve his boiler issue relatively quickly, this 
was at his inconvenience of enlisting a friend to help him with this, rather than using 
the policy hed taken to help with such issues. And its likely his upset regarding this 
matter was further compounded by the previous instance he says he was left without 
heating and hot water after his British Gas boiler service  also during winter.
Taking everything into consideration, our investigator said a total amount of £150 
compensation fairly recognised the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr J. On 
balance of what Ive seen in this particular case, I dont think this is unreasonable.
British Gas should therefore pay Mr J a total of £150 compensation. It can deduct 
any amounts already paid to Mr J from this figure.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
British Gas Services Limited must pay Mr J a total of £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. It can deduct any amounts already paid to Mr J from this 
figure.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman