DRN-2835154
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) insisted on retaining some specific 
damaged parts that were removed from his vehicle, following a claim. 
What happened
Following an accident Mr As vehicle was repaired by Aviva. Prior to repair, Mr A asked 
Aviva if he could retain some of the damaged parts; a door, two wheel hubs/rims and two 
tyres. 
Mr A says Aviva initially agreed he could retain the parts. However, it later changed its mind 
citing health and safety concerns. After Mr A complained, Aviva said it legally owned the 
parts and they wouldnt be released. 
So, Mr A brought his complaint to this service. An investigator looked at Mr As complaint 
and didnt recommend it be upheld. The investigator said that using the principles set out 
under the Motor Salvage Code of Practice, the repairer had a responsibility to dispose of the 
damaged parts appropriately, and that by not releasing the parts it hadnt done anything 
wrong.
But Mr A remains unhappy, and he has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The purpose of an insurance policy is to place the consumer back in the position they were 
in following a loss. So, if a consumers vehicle is damaged and can be repaired, the purpose 
of the insurance policy is to repair that vehicle and get the consumer back on the road. 
This means replacing or repairing damaged parts, whichever is most appropriate. If the 
damaged parts are replaced the new parts become the consumers property, and the insurer 
retains the damaged parts. The insurer either disposes of the old parts appropriately or sells 
them as salvage. But either way they become the responsibility of the insurer. 
I appreciate Mr A doesnt agree with this. But this is the way insurance policies work. Mr A 
isnt entitled to retain the damaged parts as the policy requires Aviva to replace or repair the 
damaged parts or pay a total loss settlement only. 
However, the insurer can decide to sell back the parts to Mr A. But if that is to happen, the 
insurer has to abide by the principals set out in the Motor Salvage Code of Practice (the 
Code). The purpose of the Code is to protect the public, and it sets best practice for the 
disposal of motor vehicle salvage.
As a Service its not our role to ask Aviva to hand over the requested damaged parts. Its our 
role to make sure the decision Aviva made to retain the parts was fair and in line with the 
principles and guidance Aviva is obliged to follow. 
And, taking all of this into consideration, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong by not 
releasing the damaged parts back to Mr A. The Code sets out the options available if the 
replaced part is usable. Usable means a part whose future operational performance has not 
been compromised or contaminated and the correct operation can be guaranteed. But these 
parts arent deemed usable, they were damaged. And under the Code if a part isnt deemed 
to be usable, its deemed end of life, and the appropriate waste controls would apply. 
I sympathise with Mr A, as its clear he would like to retain the damaged parts. But Aviva 
hasnt done anything wrong by not releasing the damaged parts back to Mr A. So, I wont be 
asking Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman