DRN-3551753
The complaint
Mr A complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement provided by Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd (BMF). 
What happened
On 28 December 2021 Mr A acquired a used car from a dealer. He paid a £1,000 deposit 
and covered the remaining balance with a hire purchase agreement from BMF. The car cost 
£13,900, had covered around 58,687 miles and was around six years old.
Shortly after getting the car Mr A says he noticed various problems with it. He said it was 
making a cracking noise, the air con was on all the time, there were warning lights for the 
tyres on the dash, there was metal in the 12V charging port, the stop/start function wasnt 
working and it was using too much fuel.
On 7 January 2022 Mr A says he returned the car to the dealer and left it there. He says he 
let it know about the faults and told it he didnt want the car anymore. And he complained to 
BMF on the same day and said he no longer wanted the car.
The dealer produced a customer care report on 13 January 2022 that went through the 
issues reported. It identified issues with a knocking noise, the 12V socket not working, boot 
trim covers being loose and the stop/start function not working. It said it couldnt find the 
other issues Mr A had reported. The issues were corrected by the dealer and it offered Mr A 
an extended warranty and £50.
In March 2022 BMF issued a final response to Mr As complaint. It said, in summary, that the 
issues were minor wear and tear and would be expected for the age and mileage of Mr As 
car. It said he needed to collect the car from the dealer and didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr A then referred his complaint to our service. And on 26 March 2022 Mr A collected the 
car. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said, in summary, that she thought the car had 
faults with the knocking noise, the 12V socket and the stop/start function. She said she 
thought the issues with the knocking and stop/start meant the car wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. She said Mr A had exercised his short term right to reject the car and so he should 
now be allowed to do so. She said hed been without the car for around eleven weeks while 
it was with the dealer, so his repayments from that time should be reimbursed. And she said 
Mr A should be given £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
BMF disagreed. It said the issues were not faults with the car, and no repairs were needed, 
only serviceable adjustments. It said Mr A couldve broken the 12V socket himself. And it 
said the stop/start function is not a critical part of the car. 
Our investigator replied and said she thought serviceable adjustments was another way of 
saying repairs. So she said this didnt change her opinion.
BMF continued to disagree. It said no parts needed replacing and none of the issues meant 
that the car was unusable, illegal or wouldnt have passed an MOT. So, the case has now 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr A complains about the quality of a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. 
Entering into regulated consumer credit contracts like this is a regulated activity, so Im 
satisfied I can consider Mr As complaint against BMF.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  BMF here  has a responsibility to 
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. 
So, Ill consider that Mr As car was used, was around six years old and had covered over 
58,000 miles. So, I dont think a reasonable person would expect the car to have been in as 
good condition as a newer, less road-worn model. But, that being said, I also need to 
consider that the car cost nearly £14,000. So, I think a reasonable person wouldve expected 
it to have been free from anything other than minor faults and wouldve expected trouble free 
motoring for some time.
So, what I need to consider here is whether the car was of satisfactory quality or not when it 
was supplied to Mr A.
I appreciate Mr A has said various things were wrong with the car, and several issues have 
been commented on by the dealer and BMF. But, Im going to focus here on what I think are 
the key points.
It doesnt seem in dispute here that the car had several issues with it. Having considered the 
customer care report along with what Mr A said, Im satisfied the car was making a 
knocking noise from the suspension, the stop start function wasnt working and the 12V 
socket wasnt working when Mr A acquired the car.
BMF have pointed out that these issues didnt mean the car wouldnt have passed an MOT 
and didnt mean the car was illegal or unusable. But, these arent the tests I need to consider 
here and arent a benchmark for satisfactory quality.
Thinking about all of this, Im satisfied a reasonable person would not have expected a car 
costing nearly £14,000 to have a knocking noise when driving, for the stop/start function not 
to work nor for the 12V socket to be inoperable.
Given how quickly Mr A complained, Im satisfied all of these issues were present when he 
got the car. It follows Im satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Ive considered that BMF said the issues werent faults, as parts didnt need to be replaced. 
But I dont agree with this. What was required to repair the faults doesnt change the fact the faults were present. And Im satisfied the serviceable adjustments it describes were repairs. 
I also havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr A damaged the car himself as BMF said.
Its important to note here that Mr A has been consistent in saying he told the dealer and 
BMF that he wanted to reject the car and didnt authorise any repairs. Im also satisfied this 
was the case. Given this was within 30 days of acquiring the car, and Im satisfied the car 
was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, Im satisfied Mr A had the short term 
right to reject the car under the CRA and BMF shouldve allowed this.
Given Mr A has said he still isnt happy with the car and doesnt want it, Im satisfied its fair 
and reasonable he is now still allowed to reject it.
I should also note at this point that I was disappointed to see, according to its notes, that 
initially BMF correctly agreed Mr A had the short term right to reject the car when it reviewed 
the customer care report. But, it then changed its stance after the dealer disagreed. I would 
politely remind BMF that it is it, not the dealer, that is responsible here.
Mr A was without the car from when he took it to the dealer on 7 January 2022 until he 
collected it on 26 March 2022. So I think all repayments made towards the agreement from 
this time should be reimbursed. It appears he has had use of the car since then.
I also agree with our investigator here that Mr A has suffered distress and inconvenience 
because of what went wrong. Hes had to return and collect the car from the dealer and 
arrange alternative transport when he didnt have the car. I agree £100 is fair and 
reasonable to reflect what happened here. To be clear, this is in addition to the £50 offered 
by the dealer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to put 
things right by doing the following:
Collect the car at no cost to Mr A at a time and date suitable for him
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Reimburse Mr As deposit of £1,000
Reimburse Mr A prorated repayments from 7 January 2022 to 26 March 2022
Pay Mr A £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse information from Mr As credit file in relation to this agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman