DRN-3536917
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy Fairmead Insurance Limited declined a claim she made under her home 
insurance policy following damage during bad weather.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Miss M got in touch with Fairmead after she noticed tiles had come off her roof and 
damaged her guttering during windy weather.
Fairmead asked a surveyor to inspect the damage. They didnt think it had been 
caused by a storm and said a natural breakdown of materials was the cause.
Miss M paid to have the damage repaired. She thought the damage had been 
caused by a storm and said the roofer who carried out the work agreed.
Fairmead said the weather conditions were insufficient to amount to a storm. And the 
policy didnt cover wear and tear in any event.
Our investigator thought Fairmead had declined the claim fairly. She said the 
evidence showed there were storm conditions. But the evidence provided persuaded 
her the damage was caused by wear and tear.
Miss M disagreed, so his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ms home insurance policy provides cover for, amongst other things, damage caused 
by storm. The policy defines storm to mean wind speeds with gusts of at least 47mph.
Fairmead provided two weather reports. One showed 48mph winds in Miss Ms area at the 
relevant time. The other showed maximum wind speeds of 45mph. Fairmead concluded 
there were no storm conditions. Arguably there were storm conditions given the reports 
identified wind speeds above the threshold set in the policy. But I dont think that makes a 
difference to the outcome in this case. Ill explain why.
The surveyor who inspected the damage for Fairmead said the problem was caused by wear 
and tear. Their report explains and shows a few roof tiles had slipped into the gutter, causing 
it to dip. The surveyor thought this was a sign of wear and tear to the tiles, rather than a 
storm causing damage. I agree. Typically storm damage will be tiles ripped or blown from 
the roof due to the force of wind. Here the tiles appear to have slid out of position and down 
into the gutter, as the materials formerly holding them in place have worn over time.
Miss Ms roofer said the tiles had blown off due to storm damage. But the only photographic 
evidence Ive seen shows the tiles slipped out of position. And no further explanation was 
provided. So Im more persuaded by Fairmeads position on the cause of damage than the 
roofers. Because of this, Im satisfied it was fair for Fairmead to decline the claim. 
I note the guttering was damaged by the tiles slipping, rather than the winds directly. Miss 
Ms policy doesnt include accidental damage cover, which may have provided cover for the 
guttering in these circumstances.
Miss M questioned whether the home emergency section of her policy should have provided 
cover. That part of her policy is provided by a different insurer. She is entitled to contact that 
insurer if she wishes. I cant hold Fairmead responsible for that section of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman