DRN-1824125
The complaint
Mrs H complains on behalf of X (for whom she holds a Lasting Power of Attorney) that The 
Co-operative Bank Plc (Britannia) didnt renew Xs savings bond despite Mrs H sending a 
request to do so.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mrs H and Britannia, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in 
any great detail. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
Britannia wrote to Mrs H in November 2018 advising that Xs bond would be maturing on 24 
December 2018. Instructions were provided on what to do next and Mrs H returned the 
maturity instructions form requesting renewal of the bond before the renewal date.
Britannia did not receive those instructions and so the bond did not renew but was instead 
transferred into a Maturity Saver account where it did not attract as much interest. It was 9 
months later that Mrs H learned that the bond had not been renewed and so lodged a 
complaint with Britannia, who rejected it on the basis that they had done nothing wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to mediate individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award 
redress where it is appropriate.  It is important to note that we are not a Court service and 
whilst we naturally take account of the law out focus is on what is fair and reasonable.
I look at the issues raised and then consider all the available evidence in order to see if the 
business has acted fairly. Where the evidence is not complete, then I think about what is 
more likely to have happened in the light of the evidence which is available. I take into 
account both sides views in considering whether Britannia acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs H.
I accept that Mrs H posted the renewal instructions to Britannia prior to the renewal date on 
the 24 December. I have no reason to doubt her, but equally I have no reason to doubt 
Britannia when they say they did not receive those instructions. More importantly there is no 
evidence to say they did. 
I have taken account of Mrs Hs argument on the rules of contract law but I do not consider 
they are strictly applicable here. Having said that, I do not think her argument is in fact 
correct. Britannia was not making an offer to either Mrs H or X. They were simply giving her 
instructions on what to do if she wished to renew, which is a very different position and was 
simply an invitation to her to apply for a new bond. The instructions Mrs H sent back to 
Britannia were in fact her offer to enter into a new contract for a bond, not her acceptance. But as I say the issue is not one of strict contract law, it is a question of fairness and 
reasonableness.
So, Ive thought about whether Britannia ought to have sent another reminder letter to Mrs H 
about the bond, but I dont think that would be proportionate. Investors do have to take 
responsibility for their investments and how they manage them, and I think the reminder 
Britannia sent in November was sufficient. 
Once the deadline for renewal passed, Britannia acted fairly because they followed the 
process they said they would in their November letter by transferring the money in the bond 
into the Maturity Saver account. 
So, although Mrs H will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Britannia 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here, because they gave Mrs H the opportunity to have the 
bond renewed. Unfortunately her instructions were never received by Britannia but that is not 
their fault.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against The Co-operative Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman