DRN-1650846
 
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the actions taken by Santander UK Plc when she notified them of 
her brothers death.
What happened
In July 2018 Miss M went into a Santander branch and informed them of her late brothers 
passing. Miss M was asked to complete a bereavement form. The bereavement form 
included a personal indemnity section which explained Miss M would be:
 responsible for any losses and/or costs which Santander UK plc may incur as a result of (i) 
acting on my/our instructions in relation to any payment or transfer of monies; or (ii) another 
person being entitled to a share of any monies paid or transferred. I/we agree to reimburse 
Santander UK plc for any losses or costs incurred.
Following completion of the bereavement form Miss M was transferred £19,761.39 into her 
account from her late brothers account. 
In November Miss M received a letter saying Since the funds have been paid to yourself a 
Grant of Probate has come forward and we have paid the correct beneficiary named as 
executor, now we need to look to recover the payment from yourself.
In January 2019 Santander told Miss M a restriction would be placed on her account for 
£8,869.38. On 24 January this amount was debited from Miss Ms account, and she was told 
£100 would be debited on a weekly basis until the outstanding amount had been repaid. 
Miss M complained to Santander about the way the transfer from her late brothers account 
had been managed. Miss M said shed paid funeral and other costs, and Santanders 
decision to recover this money was unfair. Santander said theyd relied on the information 
provided by Miss M when completing the bereavement form. As the money didnt legally 
belong to Miss M, it had to be recovered. 
Miss M was unhappy with this response, and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. The investigator found that although Miss M had experienced a lot of 
upset by what had happened, Santanders actions were fair as the money didnt belong to 
her. Miss M didnt accept this. Miss M said that she was her brothers next of kin. Miss M 
said Santander could see from her statements that shed spent the money on the funeral 
and expenses, so they shouldnt be asking for this back. As the complaint couldnt be 
resolved, its been passed to me for decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence I 
broadly agree with the investigators findings and outcome on this complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Miss M but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Miss M has provided a very detailed and emotive account of her relationship with her late 
brother. I dont doubt that at the time of contacting Santander in July 2018, Miss Ms 
intentions were to try and help deal with the admin of her late brothers finances. 
Miss M feels strongly that she was her late brothers next of kin. We wouldnt expect 
Santander to decide on the most appropriate person to deal with an account when it 
receives notification of a death, based solely on what theyve been told. We would expect 
Santander to review the information provided, and any supporting evidence/ forms, and use 
this to determine the best way to manage closure of the account. 
In line with Santanders process, Miss M was asked to complete a bereavement form. 
Santander relied on the information provided by Miss M on the bereavement form. This 
includes the statement saying she was entitled to the money from the account. The form 
also made it clear that Miss M would be responsible for reimbursing Santander for any costs 
that followed from her instruction to transfer the money to her. Santander later received 
evidence of a Grant of Probate naming an Executor. I havent seen any evidence to indicate 
that Santanders reliance on the Grant of Probate provided was unfair or wrong. So I think it 
was reasonable for Santander to contact Miss M to recover the money paid to her. 
Miss M says shed already paid for a lot of the costs associated with her late brothers 
funeral and other financial matters. She says Santander should ask the Executor to pay for 
these costs. I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Santander to do this. This part of 
Miss Ms complaint concerns the way the Estate was managed, and how to reclaim costs 
from the Estate. Miss M would need to seek independent legal advice on how to do this, as 
its not the role of this service or Santander to provide this advice.  
Miss M says she received constant calls and letters from Santander about repaying the 
money. Ive seen that from October 2018, Santander made several attempts to contact Miss 
M. The letters made it clear that Miss M would need to repay the money transferred to her. 
Miss M was also encouraged to contact Santander to discuss a plan for this. Miss M also 
took time to seek independent legal advice. Miss M has told this service that this didnt 
progress. So I dont think there was any evidence provided to Santander at the time for them 
to reconsider their actions. 
Having considered the steps Santander took to try and resolve things with Miss M, I dont 
think Santander acted unfairly in their dealings with Miss M. If Miss M is struggling to 
maintain the current repayment arrangement, Miss M is encouraged to contact Santander to 
discuss this. 
I am empathetic to all that Miss M has been through, and I appreciate this has been a very 
upsetting time for her. But based on the evidence Ive seen Santanders actions have been 
fair. So I wont be asking them to do anything in settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman