DRN-3371652
The complaint
Mr D complains that National Westminster Bank (NatWest) unfairly declined his 
applications for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr D had been a sole trader since March 2019 and sub-contracted to a third-party business. 
During this time he was using his personal account with NatWest to receive his income. In 
March 2019, Mr D also started a limited company which Ill call K.
In April 2020, Mr D began trading as K due an increase in work from the third-party contract. 
Ks earnings were paid into a different account also held with NatWest.
In December 2020, Mr D decided to apply to NatWest for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL). The 
bank wanted some further information in order to assess the application. But when it tried to 
discuss the application with Mr D over the phone, the call was disconnected. And as 
NatWest couldnt confirm the information it required it declined the application. 
Mr D applied again shortly after receiving the banks decision, but the application was 
declined for the same reason. NatWest said that it couldnt confirm from the information 
provided in his applications, that Mr D was trading prior to 1 March 2020 as required by the 
BBL Scheme eligibility criteria. Mr D was unhappy with both the banks decision and how it 
had processed the applications, so he made a complaint.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. The bank said it had completed its internal checks and 
assessment and had correctly decided not to proceed with Mr Ds application. 
Mr D didnt agree. He was also unhappy with how the bank had communicated its decision 
and felt it had cancelled the call with him. So he asked this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought it was reasonable 
for NatWest to decline Mr Ds BBL applications as the bank couldnt confirm that he met the 
Scheme criteria. He also didnt think the bank had terminated the call with Mr D when trying 
to verify the information hed provided. 
Mr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint, so the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Under the BBL Scheme, applicants had to meet certain eligibility criteria to obtain a loan. 
This included that they were carrying on business on 1 March 2020.
Mr D has provided his contract from the third-party business for which he was sub-
contracted, and a letter from his accountant showing he was a sole trader before 1 March 
2020. So I think he would have met this requirement. However, Mr D has told us he stopped 
trading as a sole trader in April 2020 and began trading as K as a limited company at this 
point  as he also declared this on his tax return. 
Mr D has also provided a letter from his accountant which said K had been set up in March 
2019. He also provided certificate of incorporation for K for the same date. However, this 
isnt in dispute. The issue here is how Mr D was trading prior to the 1 March 2020 and which 
business and turnover he declared on his BBL applications.  
Mr D told us he started trading as K in April 2020 when his contract with the third-party 
became busier  so he wasnt trading as himself. The evidence he has supplied also implies 
that his trade was through K. Mr D applied for a BBL as a sole trader, but the bank said it 
couldnt verify his turnover from the information he provided - as most evidence Mr D 
provided related to K. 
In addition to this, the eligibility criteria to receive a BBL said that a borrower had to declare 
that they were engaged in trading or commercial activity in the UK at the date of the 
application - which Mr D wasnt doing as a sole trader when he made the BBL application. 
As NatWest couldnt confirm that Mr D met the Scheme criteria, the bank declined Mr Ds 
BBL applications. I think this was reasonable.    
Mr D has also told us he was unhappy with the service he received from NatWest as he was 
unable to get an update from the bank, and he thought his applications had been cancelled 
unfairly and in a poor manner. However, Ive seen evidence from NatWest that shows it 
emailed Mr D shortly after the first application had been received to explain it needed 
evidence of Mr Ds turnover. The email also explained that if sufficient evidence wasnt 
received the application would be cancelled. 
Mr D believes the bank terminated the call when he was speaking to it. However, NatWests 
call notes from the time say the call was ended whilst on hold. Its difficult for me to say that 
either party were responsible for this as there could have been any number of reasons that 
call in question ended. But I dont think this had a material impact as Mr D was aware that 
the bank wanted to discuss the application with him, and he could have called back if hed 
wanted to do so. Looking at the all the evidence available, Im satisfied Mr Ds applications 
were progressed fairly and the banks decisions were communicated in a reasonable 
manner.
I recognise that Mr D feels strongly about this and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I think NatWest has dealt with the applications 
reasonably and in line with the Scheme rules, so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman