DRN-3280804
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about advice he received in 1991 to transfer out the Armed Forces
Pension Scheme (the Scheme) into a personal pension with Canada Life Limited.
Mr H is represented in bringing his complaint.
What happened
Ive considered Mr Hs complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 26 January 2022. 
In it I set out the background and my provisional findings, explaining why I wasnt upholding 
the complaint. Ive repeated here what I said. 
Mr H was advised in 1991 to transfer his deferred benefits out of the Scheme. In December
2019, through his representative, Mr H complained to Canada Life. The representative said
Mr H had been told the transfer would give him a larger pension income in retirement. Mr H
was 30 at the time and had little experience or knowledge of pensions or investments. Hed
accepted the advice as being in his best interests.
Mr Hs representative referred to the advisers obligations under LAUTRO (Life Assurance
and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). Which included giving the investor all relevant
information and using best endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature of
any risks involved and having regard to any rights the investor may have under an
occupational pension scheme. The adviser also had common law duties, including to act
with reasonable skill and care and to disclose all risks and alternatives to allow informed
consent. Mr Hs representative also referred to investment costs and the need for the client
to be informed of all the costs they will be paying. It added that, if possible, costs should be
avoided altogether (particularly if the alternative comes with guarantees and/or protection
against inflation) or, if thats not possible, kept to a minimum.
Specifically Mr Hs complaint was:
He shouldnt have been exposed to the risk of a substantially lower retirement
income as a result of transferring out of the (defined benefit) Scheme. If hed been
warned of that risk he wouldnt have accepted the advice to transfer out.
He shouldnt have been exposed to the risks of giving up valuable income
guarantees in favour of a pension linked to the stock market. Or the risks involved in
giving up inflation protected benefits and the significant reduction in purchasing
power caused by inflation.
All of Mr Hs contributions were invested in a single, complex and high cost managed
fund. Even if the transfer was suitable, investing in just one fund meant a lack of
diversification and an unnecessary concentration of risk and costs. There were seven
funds available  Mr Hs contributions shouldve been spread across different funds
to reduce risk.
Mr H hadnt been properly informed of the inherent risks in the transfer and of all the
investment costs associated with the fund that had been recommended.
It had already been accepted that the advice was unsuitable. The redress paid didnt
come close to putting Mr H in the position hed be in but for the unsuitable advice.
The review process and redress calculation werent carried out correctly. Canada Life
had been unable at the time to obtain the necessary information.
Mr H never accepted Canada Lifes offer but it was implemented anyway.
He was seeking redress in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) (more
recent) guidance for firms for calculating redress for unsuitable defined benefit
transfers.
In response, Canada Life said the sale had been considered under the pension review and
Canada Life had written to Mr H on 25 January 2001 making him an offer. Mr H hadnt
responded to that letter or Canada Lifes subsequent letter sent on 12 March 2001. On 12
April 2001 Canada Life said if it didnt hear from him within 14 days the redress would be
implemented. On 30 April 2001 Canada Life confirmed that redress of £137 had been
applied to his policy. Mr H was advised that, if he was unhappy with the outcome, he could
refer his concerns to the PIA (Personal Investment Authority) Ombudsman Bureau but he
chose not to do so. Canada Life, at Mr Hs representatives request, also provided a copy of
the pension review redress calculation.
Mr Hs representative made the following points to us:
Mr H had been advised by Canada Life to transfer out of the Scheme. It was known
to accept reinstatements. Theres no evidence that Canada Life contacted the
Scheme to request if reinstatement was possible.
Theres no evidence that Canada Life applied the correct assumptions with regard to
future charges of the personal pension.
Canada Lifes offer was only in respect of death benefits. It didnt include any
provision for lost future income.
Mr H didnt accept Canada Lifes offer and there was no obligation on him to accept
any offer.
The offer wasnt valid as it didnt meet the requirements of the Financial Services
Authority guidelines for redress for financial loss.
Canada Lifes offer letter said Mr Hs acceptance would only be effective when the
signed copy letter was received. Mr H didnt sign any acceptance.
Canada Life didnt review the relevant pension transaction in accordance with the
regulatory standards or requirements applicable for the review of the transaction at
the time. Canada Life should be directed to carry out a calculation according to the
FG17/9 guidance. That would take into account any redress paid previously so Mr H
wont be compensated twice.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. But she didnt uphold it. In summary she
said Canada Life had carried out a loss assessment and had offered Mr H compensation.
There was nothing to show hed accepted it but it was paid to him in 2001. Canada Life had
checked with the Scheme about reinstatement. Theres a fax and a reply from the Ministry of
Defence confirming that reinstatement isnt possible. The calculations didnt disclose any
obvious errors. Canada Life had carried out the review in line with the regulators guidance
at the time.
Mr H may not have accepted the settlement but it was paid to him anyway. Hed been told
that, if he didnt respond to Canada Lifes letters, the offer would be implemented, to ensure
further loss wasnt suffered. The guidance suggested the business had to give a consumer
time (generally a minimum of four weeks) to consider the offer. After that, if reasonable steps
had been taken to contact the consumer, the business could proceed unilaterally to augment
the personal pension by an amount calculated in line with the guidance. In Mr Hs case, four
letters were sent to him about the review. He was given a generous amount of time and the
process followed by Canada Life was in line with what was expected.The investigator noted that the industry wide pension review was a one off way to establish
any potential loss and pay compensation. Once that had been completed, the transfer didnt
have to be reviewed again. Mr H may unfortunately have lost out financially but that didnt
mean Canada Life was obliged to repeat their calculations which had been done in line with
the relevant guidance at the time.
Mr Hs representative didnt accept what the investigator had said and reiterated that
Canada Life had itself said the acceptance would only be effective once the signed copy
letter was received. And Mr H had never signed any acceptance. Even if the investigators
assertion that the regulators rules permitted unilateral payment of redress without
acceptance of an offer is correct (which wasnt accepted), the law takes precedence. An
agreement or contract is only valid when there is offer, acceptance and consideration. If any
one of those were missing, theres no valid agreement. In Mr Hs case, the acceptance was
missing.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs representative has put forward a number of reasons why it considers, by reference to
the regulations at the time and the legal position, that Mr H shouldnt have been advised to
transfer his Scheme benefits. But, given that Canada Life doesnt argue that the advice was
suitable and undertook a review, I dont really have to consider the suitability or otherwise of
the advice.
That said, I note the fund choice was mentioned in the original complaint letter. Mr Hs
representative said that, even if the transfer was suitable, investing in just one fund meant a
lack of diversification and unnecessary concentration of risk and costs.
Id agree that diversification is (and always has been) important and is generally regarded as
good investment practice. While losses can still result, diversification reduces risk. Spreading
money across different types of investments and assets classes means, if one holding
performs poorly in the prevailing economic circumstances, others may do better and so the
risk of an overall loss is reduced. Although I can see the argument that investing in a single
fund may not be prudent, it will depend on the fund itself. Generally speaking, a managed
fund will invest in a broad range of assets, aimed at creating diversity within the fund itself
and so minimising risk.
In the absence of any further arguments about the fund selected, it seems the complaint is
really about what happened when Canada Life looked at the transfer as part of the pension
review. So Ive concentrated on that. Canada Life reviewed the transfer and calculated and
offered redress. I think the central issues are:
Did Canada Life review the transfer as it shouldve done?
Was the compensation paid adequate?
Was Canada Life right to implement the redress offer, even though Mr H hadnt
signed to say he accepted it?
Does Canada Life need to do anything more now?
As the investigator explained, the pension review was designed to be a one-off exercise. It
was implemented to rectify widespread mis-selling and to put customers, as far as possible,
back in the position theyd have been in, if they hadnt had poor advice. The methodology forputting things right was set by the then regulator. Several assumptions, based on what the
regulator thought was fair at the time, were used in the calculations  including the expected
future growth rate of the pension funds to produce the required benefits at retirement.
But, unfortunately, in many cases the assumed growth rates used in the calculations didnt
materialise. This, combined with falling annuity rates, had an impact on the benefits provided
by the personal pension. It was thought the lump sum compensation paid following the
review plus the existing value of the pension would be high enough to match the benefits the
occupational scheme wouldve provided at retirement date. But this hasnt been the case for
many consumers. But that in itself wont be a reason redo the review and recalculate
compensation  the pension review was aimed at drawing a line under the matter with no
need to revisit the advice again.
In 2017 the Financial Conduct Authority issued new guidance  FG17/9. This was
designed for complaints upheld about occupational pension scheme transfers received after
3 August 2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been settled in full and
final settlement already.
Canada Life reviewed the transfer in 1999/2000 with the outcome communicated in early
2001. I agree that reinstatement in the Scheme wouldve been the best option for Mr H. And
Canada Life did check with the Scheme about reinstatement. Theres a fax and a reply from
the Ministry of Defence confirming that reinstatement isnt possible. And, in its letter dated 19
January 2001 to Mr H, Canada Life confirmed that the Scheme had advised that it wouldnt
allow reinstatement. Hence a calculation had been done to see how much needed to be paid
into his personal pension to provide him with total benefits of equivalent value to those hed
have got from the Scheme.
I dont agree with what Mr Hs representative has said about the review only dealing with
death benefits and that it didnt include any provision for lost future income. As Ive said, the
redress calculation was aimed at enhancing Mr Hs personal pension so it would match the
benefits hed have got at retirement if hed stayed in the Scheme.
Nor do I agree that Canada Life was unable to undertake the redress calculation properly
due to a lack of information. I can see that Mr H completed Canada Lifes Information
Request Form Reviewing Your Personal Pension  its signed by him and dated 17 February
1999. He didnt have everything requested  for example, a copy of the Scheme booklet and
the deferred benefit statement hed have got when he left the Scheme. But, for the most
part, he was able to give the details requested.
Further, the majority of the information used in the review came from the Scheme. Theres
no suggestion it was unable to provide all the necessary information. And the letter dated 19
January 2001 enclosed a summary of the loss assessment and key facts and assumptions
used. I havent seen anything to indicate that any of those were incorrect. Overall, Im
satisfied that Canada Life reviewed the advice Mr H received and calculated its
compensation offer in line with the regulators guidance.
Mr Hs representative argues that Mr Hs case hasnt been settled because he didnt accept
the offer that Canada Life made and then unilaterally implemented. It seems that the
guidance catered for what happened here  where the consumer didnt respond to an offer
made by the business concerned. Mr Hs representative says the legal position should
prevail and that, without Mr Hs acceptance, the settlement agreement  wont be valid.
I agree that Mr H didnt sign to say he accepted Canada Lifes offer. And that it seemed,
from what Canada Life first said, hed need to do that. The letter dated 19 January 2001 said
the offer was made on certain terms, including that Mr H accepted it in full and finalsettlement of all and any claims he might have against Canada Life relating to the sale of the
personal pension and any advice in connection with that. And that he could accept the offer
by signing and returning the copy letter.
But in its letter of 12 April 2001 (which followed a reminder issued on 12 March 2001)
Canada Life said it would implement the offer anyway if it didnt get any response to the offer
within the next 14 days. And the letter of 30 April 2001 confirmed that £137 had been added
to the policy as at 1 November 2000 and extra units purchased. So, although Canada Life
had initially asked Mr H to accept the offer, when he didnt do that, Canada Life told him that
it proposed to implement it anyway. A contract isnt always set in stone and can be
amended, sometimes by one party giving notice to the other. And a party can, by their
conduct, accept an offer.
The letters invited Mr H, if he had any queries or wanted further information, to contact
Canada Life. And the letter dated 19 January 2001 explained that, if Mr H declined the offer,
he could complain to Canada Life and, if not satisfied with the outcome, to the PIA
Ombudsman. As far as Im aware Mr H didnt contact Canada Life in connection with the
offer. I think Mr H was made aware what Canada Life was planning to do and given sufficient
notice if he wanted to object. I dont think what Canada Life did was in breach of Mr Hs
contractual rights such that he can now say he wasnt or shouldnt have been redressed as
part of the pension review. In any event, I think Canada Life acted fairly and reasonably and
in line with the then regulators guidance.
I dont think there are any grounds for me to say that Canada Life should redo the
calculations. I think the redress already paid by Canada Life is fair compensation in the
circumstances of this complaint and so I wont be recommending any further award or asking
Canada Life to recalculate redress under FG17/9.
Both Mr Hs representative and Canada Life responded very promptly to my provisional 
decision. Neither had anything to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further arguments, information or evidence, my views remain as set 
out in my provisional decision. 
Ive repeated above what I said in that decision and it forms part of this decision. 
For the reasons Ive previously explained, Im not upholding the complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman