DRN-2333333
The complaint
Mr D says National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2011. Mr D paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off work due to 
an accident or illness.
I sent Mr D and NatWest a provisional decision on 26 October 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
From what Ive seen of Mr Ds mortgage application, he was offered the choice to take out 
PPI or turn it down. The option to apply for PPI was filled out with details of the cover Mr D 
wanted, whereas the option to turn it down was left blank. I can also see that Mr D signed a 
document which confirmed hed like to apply for PPI, and he set up a direct debit specifically 
to pay for the policy, separately to paying for the mortgage itself  the PPI was not part and 
parcel of the mortgage. Finally, Mr Ds mortgage offer said that he didnt have to buy any 
insurance from NatWest if he didnt want to, described the PPI as optional, and set it out as 
a separate cost to the mortgage. And Ive not seen any wider problems with NatWests sales 
process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that it unfairly pressured Mr D into 
having PPI here. So I think its most likely that NatWest made Mr D aware he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if he 
no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether NatWest recommended the PPI to Mr D, or not. The requirements 
were stricter on NatWest if it did recommend the policy, so to be fair to Mr D, Ive assumed it 
did. That means NatWest had to check the PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr D was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. And he 
didnt have any other significant protection in place, which potentially left him at serious risk 
without PPI. After all, if Mr D fell behind on his mortgage payments, he couldve lost his 
home. So the PPI couldve really been useful for him in protecting his home and providing 
some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information NatWest gave Mr D about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr D chose to take out PPI, which indicates he wanted 
this type of cover. And as I said above, Mr D wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. 
The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI 
was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr D could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put him off taking out the 
cover.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
9 November 2020. But neither Mr D nor NatWest sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think this particular policy 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman