DRN-3330480
The complaint
Mr P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd failed to refund transactions that he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr P received a notification on his Monzo banking app that a payment had just been made 
which he didnt recognise. Mr P blocked his own card and then noticed a second purchase 
had been made with his card a little earlier that day.
Mr P contacted Monzo about the situation and explained how he was sitting at his desk at 
the time with his debit card in his possession when the notification came into his phone. 
Monzo investigated what had happened and initially refunded one of the transactions, which 
they later confirmed was a mistake. Monzos system data showed the two payments were 
made with Mr Ps genuine card and used the contactless system when the payments were 
taken at both merchants.
Because Mr Ps genuine card had been used, Monzo declined to refund the two disputed 
transactions, they also took back the earlier refund theyd made to Mr P. A complaint was 
lodged by Mr P who stressed that the transactions couldnt have used his card because he 
still had it in his possession at the time. Mr P sought CCTV evidence from one of the 
merchants and contacted Action Fraud about the situation. After assessing the information 
Mr P had passed to them, they (Action Fraud) took no further action. 
Monzo again looked into Mr Ps situation and maintained their position that the payments 
were made using Mr Ps genuine card and not a cloned one as Mr P thought may have 
happened. Mr P remained unhappy with Monzos handling of his situation and brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
Mr Ps complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for 
information about what had happened. Mr P confirmed his version of the events, he 
explained that he was in his office at the time of the transactions and the CCTV would show 
it wasnt him using the card. Monzo supplied audit information about the payment.
Our investigator thought the evidence showed it was Mr Ps genuine card that was used to 
make both disputed transactions and it was reasonable for Monzo to hold Mr P liable for 
both of the transactions.
Mr P disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of his complaint. He 
maintained that he had his genuine card in his possession at the time and was some miles 
away from where the payments were made. Mr P thought that card cloning was the reason 
behind the two transactions.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Refund
Firstly, Id like to comment on the refund received by Mr P. Monzo have explained that their 
system mistakenly issued a temporary refund to Mr P, which is why they later took it back. 
Mr P would have been under the impression at the time that he was going to receive full 
refunds for both transactions after seeing the first one refunded. This was an error by Monzo 
and whilst they could have provided better service to Mr P, their decision to retrieve the 
refund was based on the belief that Mr P authorised both transactions. Under normal 
circumstances, Monzo wouldnt have issued a refund and I think it was reasonable for them 
to take it back.
Authorisation
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Monzo can hold Mr P liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Monzo can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr P authorised the 
transactions, but Monzo cannot say that the use of the contactless card conclusively proves 
that the payments were authorised. 
Unless Monzo can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Ps account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr P.
Mr P believes that his card was cloned because he was in possession of it some miles from 
where the transactions took place. Monzo rely on their audit data to demonstrate it was the 
genuine card that was used. Its not our role to say exactly what happened, but to decide 
whether Monzo can reasonably hold Mr P liable for these transactions or not. In doing so, Ill 
be considering what is most likely on a balance of probabilities.
The audit evidence provided by Monzo shows it was Mr Ps genuine card that was used to 
make these transactions. Its generally accepted that cards containing a Chip cant be 
cloned, although the magnetic strip can be. But, if Mr Ps card was cloned using the 
magnetic strip  the audit data would show that. The information recorded during 
transactions includes the means of the payment  here that the Chip on the card was read 
by the terminal it was used with. Thats why Monzo are able to show it was a contactless 
transaction. 
Id also note that both transactions were for relatively small amounts of money  well within 
the contactless limit. I appreciate Mr P said he was in possession of his card at the time, but 
Im satisfied the evidence shows that whoever used the card did so with Mr Ps genuine 
card. 
Even though its unlikely that it was Mr P himself that made these transactions, hed still be 
liable for them unless his card was taken without his authority  but Mr P stated he still had 
his card with him  not that it had been stolen.
If Mr Ps card had been taken without his permission (stolen) then Id probably uphold his 
complaint because the payments would likely not have been authorised  but here Mr P has 
explained that he still had it in his possession and hasnt said it was stolen.The pattern of transactions also doesnt support a case that the card was being used without 
permission, thats because the two transactions took place about an hour apart. Usually, 
such cards are used as quickly as possible before the owner blocks them or reports them 
stolen. Notification of payments to the account holders is a common feature of such cards 
and an unauthorised user would most likely know that. The whole point of stealing a card is 
to use it to gain as much money/goods as quickly as possible. Waiting almost an hour to use 
it again is an unusual way for the card to be used by a thief.
What that means here is that the version of events given by Mr P isnt supported by the audit 
evidence supplied by Monzo. The card couldnt have been both in Mr Ps wallet and being 
used to make the disputed transactions at the same time. So, when I take everything into 
account, I cant say that the card was used without some form of authority and that means I 
think that Mr P was more likely than not responsible for these transactions. I think it was 
reasonable for Monzo to hold Mr P liable for the two transactions and I wont be upholding 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman