DRN-1493175
 
The complaint
Mrs A says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her 
and provided her with a loan without sufficient affordability checks to assess whether she 
could reasonably afford the loan. Mrs A eventually defaulted on the loan and says she never 
received the default notice.
What happened
Mrs A took a £400 instalment loan with Sunny on 5 January 2018. The instalments of 
£108.11 were payable over six months. Mrs A didnt make all the repayments and the loan 
defaulted in May 2018.
Our adjudicator did not recommend Mrs As complaint be upheld. He also considered based 
on the evidence, that the default note was issued by the business. 
Mrs A did not agree. She said there were several entries on her credit file that should have 
alerted Sunny to the fact that she could not afford the loan.
As Mrs A didnt agree, the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks to understand whether Mrs A 
could repay her loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
So I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with circumstance. In general, 
Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential risk to the consumer 
of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. With this in mind, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But I might think a lender might need to do more if, for example, the consumers income was 
low or the amount lent or monthly repayment was high. And the longer the lending 
relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower 
experiencing financial difficulty. So Id expect a lender to be able to show that it hasnt 
continued to provide loans to a customer irresponsibly.
Sunny says it carried out eligibility, creditworthiness and affordability checks before making a 
decision whether to provide a loan. The information it obtained didnt suggest that Mrs A wouldnt be able to make the repayments she was committing to. And in these 
circumstances, Sunny felt it wasnt irresponsible to lend.
The information provided by Sunny does suggest that Mrs A was asked to declare details of 
her monthly income, along with a breakdown of her monthly expenses. Mrs A declared 
income of £2,100 and expenses of £1,797. Given the maximum monthly repayment of 
£108.11 the loan appeared affordable based on the information Mrs A declared to Sunny.
There was no requirement for Sunny to do a credit search, but the type of searches it did do 
did not show the level of detail that Mrs As own credit report shows. Sunnys searches 
covered things like insolvency, county court judgements within the last three months and 
defaults in the last four months. So Sunny's searches did not capture the full details of Mrs 
As own county court judgment and defaults which dated back much further than this 
(although I appreciate, they were not satisfied at the time of the searches).
I accept that Mrs As actual circumstances werent reflected in the information she provided 
(or were reflected in the information obtained through Sunnys own searches). But, this was 
Mrs A's first loan with Sunny and in the absence of anything to suggest that the information 
Mrs A was likely to be unreliable, I dont think there was any reason for Sunny to doubt the 
information Mrs A gave it (although I appreciate, she now says what she provided might not 
have been accurate). The repayments that Mrs A agreed to make on her loan were relatively 
modest compared to the monthly income that she declared to Sunny. And, even after 
allowing for her regular monthly expenditure and other borrowing, Im satisfied that the 
repayments would have appeared to be affordable for Mrs A.
So given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mrs As circumstances at the 
time, and her lack of borrowing history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Sunny to ask her for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. That is to say I dont think Sunny needed to ask for her 
banks statements or the level of detail that they would have shown about Mrs As actual 
financial circumstances. I also don't think Sunny would have known, or ought reasonably to 
have known about Mrs A's health issues. So I dont think Sunny was wrong to give this loan 
to Mrs A.
I've also considered Mrs A's complaint that Sunny didn't issue a default notice to her. Sunny 
has provided us with a copy of the default notice it says was issued to Mrs A at the time. Mrs 
A says there is no way or knowing if the default notice was actually sent or not or if it is just 
made up recently. I appreciate that Mrs A may not have retained a copy or recall having 
received the notice but the letter is addressed to Mrs A. So, on balance, I think it's more 
likely than not that the default notice was issued at the time.
I know Mrs A feels strongly, and will be disappointed by this outcome. She has put time and 
effort into the complaint. Ive thought carefully about all that she has said. But based on 
everything Ive read and been told, on balance, I dont think itd be fair and reasonable to 
uphold her complaint.
My final decision
 My final decision is I do not uphold Mrs A's complaint and therefore make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman