DRN-3705893
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that HSBC Bank UK Plc blocked their account for two days causing 
direct debits to fail.
What happened
Mr K says that HSBC did not notify them it was going to block their account and as a result 
he says 20 direct debits to insurance companies, pension plans, mortgages and loans failed. 
He adds that HSBC also reversed a payment theyd made to their HSBC credit card. Mr K 
says that such actions are not written in the accounts terms and conditions and they also 
werent informed when the account was subsequently unblocked two days later. 
Mr K says he had to arrange for all credits to be diverted to a different account and that 
insurance claims were declined. He adds that he incurred penalties on the affected loans 
and mortgages and was forced to repay one loan in full. Mr K says he lost an investment 
opportunity when his pension contribution failed and the reversed payment to his credit card 
was not credited to the current account.
HSBC explained that it received a scam allegation about a credit received into Mr and 
Mrs Ks account on 22 January 2022. It says it blocked the account on 13 February 2022 to 
review the account and unblocked it two days later. HSBC said it was Mr Ks responsibility to 
make alternative arrangements to pay any bills. However, it credited Mr Ks account with 
£100 because he should have been advised to go into a branch during his initial call. 
Following further evidence from Mr K, HSBC paid him a further £650 as a gesture of goodwill 
and refunded a £12 over-limit fee on his credit card.
Mr K says that the compensation awarded by HSBC is insufficient and he wants £25,000 to 
settle the matter.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She did not find HSBC 
had done anything wrong by placing a block on Mr and Mrs Ks account and didnt consider 
further compensation was warranted.
Mr K responded to say, in summary, that he was not aware of the terms and conditions that 
allowed HSBC to block an account and cancel direct debits. He requested a copy of HSBCs 
information which was sent to him in August 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that, on 13 February 2022, HSBC was notified by another bank about a payment 
one of its customers had made into Mr and Mrs Ks account on 22 January 2022. The other 
bank said its customer had not received what she was expecting for the money. HSBC 
blocked Mr and Mrs Ks account and tried to contact them before sending a letter on 14 
February 2022. When it spoke to Mr K on 15 February 2022, it was satisfied with his 
explanation and unblocked the account. In the meantime, 11 direct debits failed to leave Mr 
and Mrs Ks account.
Although Mr K says HSBC was not authorised to block the account in this way, and he 
should have been notified before such actions were taken, Im satisfied HSBC did nothing 
wrong in this respect. HSBCs terms and conditions say: 
We can block any payment devicewhereWe suspect fraud or criminal use of the 
payment device;
Well only block if we reasonably believe its necessary. And well usually let you 
know why as soon as we reasonably can;
Well unblock the payment device when the reason for blocking it ends;
Ifwe suspect fraudulent or criminal activity of any kind, well have to take action. 
For example, we mightblock or close your accounts.
So I find that HSBC was entitled to block Mr and Mrs Ks account without prior notification, 
and I consider it acted reasonably with the actions it took to enable the account to be 
unblocked within two days. 
I can see that 10 direct debits were blocked during this period, excluding the transfer to 
Mr Ks HSBC credit card, for which I can see the resulting £12 over-limit fee has now been 
refunded. Of those 10 direct debits, totalling around £635, six were for £25 or less. Although 
Mr K has a responsibility to ensure the necessary payments are made, I can understand 
how frustrating this would have been for him.
Mr K told HSBC that as a result of the account and direct debits being blocked, he was 
charged £150 on a loan and a further £500 by an insurance company. HSBC says it 
received evidence of the £150 but agreed to refund both that and the £500 to Mr K as a 
gesture of goodwill, along with the £12 charge on his credit card account and the £100 for 
the incorrect information he received initially.
I acknowledge Mr K says he wants compensation of £25,000, but I havent seen any 
evidence that HSBCs actions caused Mr and Mrs K that level of financial detriment.
In summary, I cant conclude HSBC made an error by blocking Mr and Mrs Ks account and I 
consider the £762 it has already paid to Mr and Mrs K to be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman