DRN-4335088
The complaint
Mr K complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) blocked his account in June 2021 and didnt 
allow payments to be made from it to his loan account which adversely impacted his credit 
file.
To put things right, Mr K wants Lloyds to amend his credit file, and pay compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this has caused.  
What happened
Lloyds blocked Mr Ks account in June 2021 and sent him a text message to contact it. Mr K 
spoke to Lloyds over the phone at the end of July 2021, and in August 2021. He was told to 
go into one of Lloyds branches with photographic evidence of his identity. 
Unhappy with Lloyds, Mr K complained. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint, and in 
summary said: 
- The account has been blocked and because of the length of time since it was 
applied, Mr K needs to go into one of Lloyds branches with photographic 
identification. The blocks will remain until Lloyds is able to confirm Mr Ks identity 
- Notes on Lloyds systems show Mr K had called it before about the blocks and it had 
sent him a text message. So Lloyds didnt agree Mr K wasnt aware of the blocks
Mr K referred his complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into it, and they 
found:
- Lloyds are under numerous legal and regulatory obligations. Lloyds is required as 
part of its legal and regulatory obligations to carry out Customer Due Diligence. Its 
been over two years since Lloyds first asked Mr K to visit a branch, but he hasnt 
done so
- Lloyds request for Mr K to go into branch with his identity documents is reasonable 
and proportionate given the circumstances. There are no impediments to Mr K going 
into branch based on the information provided
- So Lloyds doesnt need to transfer the funds into another nominated account as 
requested by Mr K 
Mr K did not agree with what our Investigator said. He says he has been subjected to unfair 
and unjustified restrictions. And by Lloyds insisting he goes into a branch he has been 
denied access to his funds. 
Mr K also says Lloyds have continued to operate his loan account without issue and not 
indicated it has concerns about that. Mr K adds that when Lloyds initially asked him to visit a 
branch it wasnt feasible for him to do so because of the COVID pandemic. He is now living 
abroad, so Lloyds should conduct electronic and remote identification 
As Mr K didnt agree, this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr K, 
so Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like Lloyds, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as 
confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains security information, or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Lloyds has provided is 
information we consider should be kept confidential.
Having looked at the information Lloyds have given me Im satisfied it acted in line with its 
obligations when blocking Mr Ks account. Mr K may want a more detailed explanation as to 
what concerns Lloyds had, but I am not aware of any obligation under which it must do so. 
Lloyds say it messaged Mr K when it applied the blocks in June 2021. Mr K says he may 
have seen this but thought it might be related to a scam. Ive also listened to calls in 
July 2021 and August 2021 between Mr K and Lloyds staff members. In both calls he is told 
to come into branch with his identity documents. I note Mr K says he was in the UK in 
July 2021. 
Mr K has never been into Lloyds branch to date with his identity to discuss the blocks. 
After carefully considering Lloyds reasons for blocking the account and asking Mr K to visit 
its branch, Im satisfied it is acting fairly. As Ive said, Lloyds has several legal and regulatory 
obligations to observe, and by speaking to Mr K in this way, it would be acting in line with 
them. 
Mr K says he isnt residing in the UK anymore, so Lloyds should seek to identify him in 
another way. This is something for Lloyds to consider. But based on what Ive seen, and the 
circumstances Mr K has explained, I still think a face-to-face meeting in branch is a 
reasonable request. 
I also note that Mr K never said anything about not being able to attend branch due to 
COVID in the calls made in July and August 2021. So I dont put much weight on his 
assertion that he was unable to do this.  
Mr K says Lloyds treatment is unfair as on one hand it has blocked his bank account but, on 
the other, continued to accept payments for his loan account with it. Mr K has an obligation 
to pay his loan, and he is doing so from another source to that of his Lloyds account  which 
Lloyds have concerns about. 
Mr K also says Lloyds actions have meant he missed some payments to his loan at the 
time. But Ive already said Lloyds acted fairly, and with enough cause, to block his account. 
So it doesnt need to correct Mr Ks credit file. Im also persuaded that Lloyds is acting in line with its obligations, and fairly by holding onto 
the funds in the account until it can start the process of speaking to Mr K, with his identity, in 
one of its branches. 
Mr K says Lloyds actions have caused him trouble and upset. I do appreciate this matter 
wouldve caused him some difficulty. But having looked at whats happened in this particular 
case, I can see no basis on which I might make an award against Lloyds given that I dont 
think it failed to properly follow its own procedures when it blocked Mr Ks account. 
So Im not going to ask Lloyds to compensate Mr K for any trouble and upset this may have 
caused.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman