DRN-3137645
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream didnt credit a 
payment to her account. 
Miss T also says she had significant problems in contacting and dealing with Lending 
Stream in trying to get the case resolved.
What happened
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ts complaint and both parties agreed, and the case was 
closed. However, Miss T remained unhappy with how the credit file was updated and the 
case was reopened. 
I issued my first provisional decision in September 2021, explaining the reasons why I wasnt 
intending to uphold Miss Ts complaint, beyond what the adjudicator had recommended. 
In response, to this decision Miss T provided some further information that led me to issue a 
second provisional, where I outlined why I thought further compensation needed to be paid. 
A copy of the background and findings and both decisions can be found below (in italics and 
in smaller font) and these form part of this final decision. 
What I said in my first provisional decision:
Miss T took a loan from Lending Stream in April 2020. She repaid this loan. But, while she
had evidence of the payment, Lending Stream couldnt locate it. This meant her account fell
into arrears and additional interest and charges were added.
Miss T complained and received a final response letter from Lending Stream in August 2020.
In this letter, it gave her two options, provide further information about the payment or to
make a payment to Lending Stream and it would then cap the amount she needed to repay.
Unhappy with this response Miss T brought her complaint to this service.
In around March 2021, after Miss T had brought the complaint to this service and the
adjudicator become involved, Miss T made the payment to Lending Stream as outlined in the
final response letter. Although, the adjudicator at this service didnt appear to have seen the
email from 8 March 2021 at the time of the assessment, it seems that around the date the
payment was made, Lending Stream agreed to do the following;
mark the loan as settled from 7 April 2020 and
as a result of doing this all the other negative information which is currently being
reported will automatically be removed.
An adjudicator reviewed the case. She though, that now Miss T had made the payment,
Lending Stream should do what it said in the final response letter and remove the loan from
the credit file. She also said that Lending Stream had caused Miss T distress and
inconvenience, so recommended a compensation payment of £100.
Lending Stream agreed with the adjudicators recommendation.
Miss T, although not entirely content with the offer of £100 did accept the payment and the
complaint was closed.
However, Miss T let us know a few days later, that Lending Stream had updated her credit
file, but only to show it was settled. Miss T said Lending Stream had agreed to delete the
record.
Later on, Miss T sent us an email showing that she had raised a dispute with a credit
reference agency about the Lending Stream loan record (as well as the response she
received). Miss T was also able to provide us with an email, that showed by 2 June 2021 the
record had been deleted from her credit file.
Our adjudicator contacted Lending Stream about what had happened with the credit file. It
told this service that it had done what it said it was going to do. It initially, had updated the
record to show it was settled and then once it received the view from our adjudicator, which
asked for the record to be deleted it took steps to arrange this.
This response was passed to Miss T, at the same time the adjudicator explained that after
Lending Stream accepted the assessment on the case that it sent the request to the credit
reference agency. But the adjudicator didnt think Lending Stream had done anything else
wrong and therefore didnt need to make a further award of compensation.
Miss T didnt agree. At this point she provided a copy of her credit report, so show Lending
Stream had updated her credit file to show it was closed  but what happened was that
Lending Stream had initially marked the loan as satisfied. Miss T says that Lending Stream
knew the impact of marking the account as satisfied have on her mortgage application. In
total, Miss T says it took nearly three months for the credit report to be updated correctly.
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice.
Miss T previously agreed the case could be closed following a payment of £100
compensation and the credit file being updated to delete the record. Given, the case was
closed Im not going to be revisiting this aspect of the complaint.
But what I have done, is consider whether there was (or wasnt) a delay in Lending Stream in 
updating Miss Ts credit file. Having looked at the evidence that has been provided, I dont think 
Lending Stream needs to pay further compensation and Ill explain why below.
Firstly, Ive taken a look at what Lending Stream agreed to do in the final response letter (FRL). This 
was issued to Miss T on 10 August 2020. There are two references in the FRL to updating the credit 
file. Lending Stream says;
..go ahead and take the remedial actions including credit file amendment.
Later on in the FRL, Lending Stream also says;
we will also go ahead and amend your credit file accordingly.
Both of these statements are quite ambiguous as Lending Stream doesnt give details of exactly what 
amending Miss Ts credit file would entail. But it does not say that Miss Ts loan record would be 
deleted.
Ive therefore considered what Lending Stream told Miss T in March 2021. In this email, presumably sent following further contact from Miss T  Lending Stream agreed to;
Please be informed that we have already mention in our previous responses that we will 
amend your loan closure date to be 7 April 2020, all adverse information reported after this 
date would automatically be removed.
At this point there was a reasonable expectation on the part of Miss T that once she made
the payments Lending Stream would update her credit file to show the loan was closed in
2020, as a result of that the adverse information that has been reported  so missed
payment markers and a default would be removed. But the loan account would still remain
on her credit file.
And Miss T has provided us a screen shot, that appears to show the account being updated
around a month later. The loan is shown as being closed in April 2020. So, this is in line with
what Lending Stream said, but the adverse information (such as missed payment markers)
was still showing.
Ive also thought about what Lending Stream recently told us about the timescales, I can see
from the file that Miss T has received a verbatim copy of the email. In summary, Lending
Stream says;
a credit file amendment was requested on 16 March 2021, to update the closure date for the 
loan to 7 April 2020.
Once it received an acceptance from Miss T of the adjudicators view on 12 April 2021 it 
requested the amendment to the credit file on 5 May 2021.
Lending Stream reiterated that it can normally take 30  45 days for the changes to reflect on 
the credit file.
I would say, that once a case is closed, we normally expect a lender to take steps to pay the
compensation that was agreed within 28 days  so here it does seem that within 28 days of
receiving Miss Ts acceptance that Lending Stream took steps to notify the credit reference
agencies.
I also know, from my experiences of dealing with complaints of this nature that once the
credit reference agencies are notified it can normally take 30  60 days for the record to be
updated, depending on the reporting cycle. Given the information appears to have been
removed within a month it seems the record was updated in line with the normal guidelines
and standards that wed expect. So, in relation to the acceptance of the view I dont think
Lending Stream delayed updating the credit file.
As Ive said above, there was a reasonable expectation that Miss T could believe her credit
file would have had the adverse information removed from it at some point in the middle of
April 2020. This is because Lending Stream told her the adverse information would drop off
once the account closure date was added.
The screen shot provided by Miss T shows the closure date did change but the adverse
information wasnt removed, this only happened after the loan was deleted in June 2021.
Therefore, the crux of this issue is whether Miss T should receive compensation for a
potential delay of around 6 weeks - from the middle of April to the beginning of June 2021.
Having the loan deleted rather than just showing as closed is likely to be more beneficial to
Miss T.
Miss T has said the delay in Lending Stream updating her credit file caused her significant
problems when trying to obtain a mortgage. Miss T hasnt provided this service with any
information about the mortgage applications, reason for it being declined. So, I dont have
any enough information to be able to make an assessment about this element of the
complaint.Equally, while there was a delay, I dont think Lending Stream took too long to facilitate the
loan being removed. There was a delay when for six weeks Miss T had a loan on her credit
file (which she expected) but showing adverse information. Based on what, Ive seen, while I
dont doubt this caused Miss T some distress and inconvenience, I cant, in this instance,
recommend a further payment of compensation based on what I currently have to hand.
So, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint and Lending Stream doesnt have to do any more
than what it has already done. I appreciate Miss T will be disappointed by the outcome of
this complaint, but I hope my explanation has been useful in explaining why Im intending to
reach the outcome that I have.
Following the first provisional decision, I issued a second provisional decision upholding 
Miss Ts complaint and awarding further compensation of £100. The findings section of the 
second provisional decision can be found below. 
What I said in my second provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about the additional comments and evidence that Miss T has
provided and, in this case, given what she has said, I think Lending Stream need to make an
additional payment for the trouble and upset that has been caused.
It is clear Miss Ts strength of feeling about this case, and as I said, I dont doubt what was
already a stressful situation was exasperated by the actions of Lending Stream. After all, it
agreed to remove the adverse information it was reporting following Miss Ts payment to it to
March 2021. So, there was an expectation, on Miss Ts part that the adverse information
would be removed. Which given the content of the emails she has provided was key to her
progressing her mortgage application.
Clearly, based on the partial email she has provided us from her broker, she wasnt able to
continue or even start a mortgage application while the default was in place, which is why,
as Ive explained in the provisional decision, there was a delay of around six weeks, from
when the loan closure date was updated (but the adverse information remained) to when
Lending Stream arranged for the loan record to be fully removed from Miss Ts credit file.
At the time I hadnt seen any evidence of the impact of that delay. While, the email Miss T
has sent me isnt dated, it is clear that Miss T couldnt proceed with her mortgage application due to 
how recent the default information was. And as Ive said, it was reasonable of Miss T to believe, that 
at the latest once the closure date was added, the adverse information would drop off. This was 
confirmed to her by Lending Stream.
So, when the adverse information didnt drop off, its understandable that Mrs T wouldve been 
frustrated by this, given what Lending Stream had previously told her and what the email from her
mortgage broker told her, she expected to be able to proceed with the application in April.
But this couldnt happen, until the information was removed from her credit file in around
June 2021. So, for the ongoing distress that was caused to Miss T as a result of her credit
file not updating, Ive outlined below what Im intending to ask Lending Stream to do to put
things right.
I have also not seen any evidence that the actions of Lending Stream were done out of spite
towards Miss T. I accept that Miss T feels this way, but I havent seen anything further to
support this. Rather, it seems more likely that it was just an error on the part of Lending
Stream albeit, the error had an impact on Miss Ts ability to progress her mortgage
application.
I also accept that in some occasions, some lenders can update credit files more quickly thanthe timeline outlined by Lending Stream. But this is the timeline, wed expect Lending Stream
to stick to, and based on what Ive seen, once it agreed to remove the loan record, this
happened within 28 days of it letting the credit reference agencies know. So, I cant award
separate compensation because when Lending Stream agreed to delete the loan, it did it
within line with what wed expect.
Both parties were asked to provide any further comments or evidence by 2 November 2021. 
Both Miss T and Lending Stream responded to the second provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lending Stream responded and it agreed to pay the additional compensation payment of 
£100. 
It also asked for a copy of Miss Ts credit file to make sure the amendments its requested 
have been carried out. Ill leave it up to Miss T to contact Lending Stream to let it know if the 
credit file still isnt correct. But it is my understanding the record has now been removed. 
Finally, Lending Stream has said it will pay the compensation into Miss Ts bank account 
ending 4685. If Miss T wants the refund to be paid into a different account, she should 
contact Lending Stream who will be able to explain what information it may need to see in 
order to progress the payment. Again, Ill leave it up to Miss T to decide what is best for her. 
Miss T didnt agree with the findings of the second provisional decision. In summary she 
said;
Miss T couldnt obtain a mortgage for almost three months due to the delay; 
the compensation award isnt enough; 
Miss T says Lending Stream caused the delay out of spite and
she says fairer compensation would be for the whole loan amount to be refunded to 
her for the hassle that has been caused.
Its clear that Miss T is frustrated this process and feels that Lending Stream has deliberately 
gone out of its way to stop and / or delay her mortgage application. 
I consider this to be unlikely, and much more likely that these issues occurred because of 
the way  Lending Stream asked for Miss Ts loan records to be updated, but that doesnt 
mean it was done deliberately or out of spite. I know Miss T disagrees with this view, but Im 
not persuaded Lending Stream did this out of spite.  
Lending Stream, says that it had initially asked for the closure date to be amended following 
its email to Miss T in March 2021. However, as the view was sent at the end of March 2021 
and later accepted in April 2021 this meant a further amendment was needed because the 
adjudicator asked for the loan to be deleted, not just for the adverse to be removed.
 
Ive also considered what Miss T says about fair compensation. But Im of the opinion it 
wouldve always taken a month or so for the adverse to be removed so its unlikely the credit 
file wouldve been updated until the middle of April. This is around the same time Lending 
Stream accepted the view to delete the record, which again, wouldve taken a month or so to 
update once Lending Stream put the request in. It asked for the update around 28 days after 
this Service closed the case. This is in line with the timescales that wed expect a lender to 
follow, when carrying out compensation on a complaint. So, I cant agree with Miss T that the delay was around 3 months, it is in my view from the 
middle of April to the start of June 2021. And I think, in those circumstances, it would be 
unfair to ask Lending Stream to ask it to pay the value of the loan back. Instead, the delay in 
my view is more like six weeks, but I acknowledge know Miss T disagrees with that 
assessment of the situation. 
Overall, Ive thought carefully about what has happened in this case, and Ive not been 
persuaded by Miss Ts most recent comments. So, Ive come to the same conclusions that I 
reached in the second provisional decision and I still think the additional compensation 
award of £100 is fair and reasonable. 
Ive outlined below what Lending Stream needs to do (and what it has agreed to do) in order 
to put things right for Miss T. 
  
Putting things right
Lending Stream should pay Miss T an additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience
that she has been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decisions, Im upholding Miss Ts 
complaint in part.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Miss T as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman