DRN-2898004
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Moneyboat) did
insufficient checks before lending to him. 
What happened
Mr Z had three loans from Moneyboat between March 2018 and November 2018 as shown 
below:
 
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 9 Mar 2018 £200 52d £125.48 30 Apr 2018 On time
2 30 Apr 2018 £1,400 151d £481.98 28 Sep 2018 31 Oct 2018
3 1 Nov 2018 £1,500 148d £511.09 29 Mar 2019 Outstanding
Mr Z says if Moneyboat had carried out better checks it would not have lent him the money.
He says he had existing loans and the additional lending left him in arrears on priority bills.
Moneyboat says it checked Mr Zs credit file and there was no evidence of financial difficulty.
It says it also asked Mr Z to provide figures for his income and expenditure and they showed
the repayments to be affordable, even after adjustments were made based on its other
checks. Moneyboat adds that Mr Z did not choose the maximum term for the loans and so
committed to higher payments which would have made little sense if he couldnt afford them.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. She found that by
loan 3, the size of the repayment and Mr Zs borrowing history indicated it was unlikely he
could sustainably repay it. Our adjudicator recommended that interest and charges should
be refunded on loan 3 (and any overpayments paid to him with 8% simple interest), and that
negative information about the loan should be removed from Mr Zs credit file.
Moneyboat responded to say that it was not aware of any Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
guidance that refers to repayments being a significant proportion of a customers income.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to Moneyboat, and to Mr Z, on 28 May 2021. I summarise my 
findings here:
As the repayments on Mr Zs first loan were less than 7% of his declared income, I 
was satisfied the checks went far enough. Although there were some negative 
entries on Mr Zs credit file, I couldnt see there was anything in the available 
information that should have indicated to Moneyboat that the repayments were 
unaffordable on loan 1.
I didnt find Moneyboats checks on loan 2 went far enough because:
oThe loan was taken the same day Mr Z had repaid loan 1 and the amount 
borrowed and the scheduled repayments were much higher;
oThe credit check showed Mr Z hadnt made any further payments to his 
existing debt and hed taken out an additional £300 loan in March 2018;
So I considered it was likely Moneyboat would have found further lending was 
irresponsible because:
oThe repayments on loan 2 were over 26% of Mr Zs declared income;
oCombined with Mr Zs existing loans, his spend on credit repayments 
totalled £857 per month  almost half his income;
oMr Z hadnt made any payments towards his defaulted accounts and his 
loan arrears had increased;
I found it likely Mr Zs disposable income was significantly less than the £826 per 
month hed declared and that the repayments were unsustainable for 5 months. So I 
thought Moneyboat would have found loan 2 to be unaffordable if it had carried out 
proportionate checks.
I also found it was irresponsible to have approved loan 3 because:
oMr Z had struggled to make the contractual loan 2 repayments on time 
and had repaid the loan one month late;
oHe then applied for loan 3 the following day and the loan amount was 
slightly higher still with higher repayments over five months;
oMr Zs credit check showed his financial situation was largely unchanged 
with the exception that the loan that was in arrears had been removed from 
his credit file, hed repaid the other loan and hed taken out a new credit 
card, on which he owed £250;
Finally I acknowledged what Moneyboat said about there being no specific FCA guidance 
that refers to repayments being a significant proportion of a customers income. I explained 
that credit expenditure as a proportion of a customers income has a clear bearing on the 
sustainability of a loan, given all the other priority expenditure a customer needs to find from 
that same income.
I also quoted the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which said that repaying debt 
in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting other reasonable commitments.
I added that, as far back as 2006, the Finance and Leasing Associations Lending Code
suggested that a consumer spending more than 25% of their income on consumer credit
could be an indication of someone experiencing financial difficulty.So, in summary, my provisional decision was to uphold the complaint about loans 2 and 3.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Moneyboat, nor Mr Z, has responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to depart from my original conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Evergreen Finance London Limited 
(trading as Moneyboat) should:
A. Refund all the interest and charges Mr Z paid on loan 2;
B. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
C. Remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 3 and treat all the 
payments Mr Z made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
D. If reworking Mr Zs loan 3 account as Ive directed results in Mr Z effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Moneyboat should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement* along with 
the refund calculated (A+B) for loan 2;
E. If reworking Mr Zs loan 3 account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Moneyboat can use the total refund for loan 2 (after the tax deduction) to offset this. 
Any surplus then needs to be refunded to Mr Z. But if there is still an outstanding 
capital balance then I remind Moneyboat that it should take a sympathetic view when 
seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr Z;
F. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Zs credit file in relation to loans 2 
and 3  up to the date the complaint is settled.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneyboat to take off tax from this interest. Moneyboat
must give Mr Z a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman