DRN-3134112
The complaint
Ms W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc hasnt helped her switch accounts from 
another bank.
What happened
Ms W says she contacted NatWest about switching and transferring some accounts she held 
with another bank. She wanted to use NatWest as it better fit her banking needs. But Ms W 
says she was told that NatWest dealt with this poorly. She was given conflicting advice about 
what NatWest terms a health check and how she could do this.
Ms W complained and NatWest responded  saying there had been some failings in how it 
has dealt with this. It offered her £100 compensation and reimbursed her £54 in call costs. 
But Ms W wasnt happy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into this but didnt think NatWest needed to do any more. They said that there was no 
evidence of any switch or transfer being requested.
Ms W disagreed with this and checked her own records. She couldnt find any record of any 
calls either, because of the way her phone provider would have logged the calls - as they 
were a free number, they didnt show up on her phone bills. Ms W was frustrated with this 
and asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by explaining that my decision here focuses on the complaint that Ms W has raised 
in her sole name and that NatWest has responded to. Im aware that there are other issues 
which have been brought up since this complaint was first referred to us, including a possible 
issue about another account in the separate name of a business. But Ill be focusing on 
Ms Ws complaint about the account switching and service around this here.
Having looked at everything here, I can see how difficult and stressful Ms W will have found 
this situation. She clearly feels very strongly that something has gone wrong here  but after 
asking her and NatWest for more evidence, shes been told that there are no records to 
support her complaint. That must be incredibly frustrating.
Were a quick and informal alternative to the courts and our role is impartial, so I have to be 
fair to both sides. One way we do that is to be evidence based, that is, well weigh up the 
evidence that both sides provide and reach an impartial decision on what is fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances.
But thats difficult for me to do here. Ms Ws complaint is that NatWest hasnt helped her 
transfer or switch her accounts. But there are simply no records on NatWests systems of it 
receiving or dealing with a request like this. Nor has Ms W been able to provide any record 
of calls or contacts to show this.
Where theres simply no evidence from either side, its difficult for me to make any findings 
on the detail of what may have happened here. And that means that I have no basis to ask 
NatWest to do any more. Its no doubt frustrating for Ms W that NatWest hasnt been able to 
provide us with any records  but its provided information from its systems that satisfy me 
that it has completed reasonable searches for this. It also says that it contacted the branch 
that Ms W told us she visited too  and the branch says it has no recollections of the visit 
shes mentioned to us.
It's unhelpful that NatWests response to her complaint seemed to suggest that it had 
accepted that its service had fallen short and offered compensation for this. So I can see 
why Ms W brought her complaint to us. But, since the complaint has been with us  NatWest 
has explained that it gave Ms W the benefit of the doubt and accepted what she said.
NatWest offered Ms W £100 and £54 for call costs. Thats a helpful gesture, especially in the 
absence of any evidence of NatWest making mistakes here. But for me to say that NatWest 
needs to do more than that, Id need further detail and evidence to rely on. What makes 
things difficult is that NatWest hasnt been able to provide any clear evidence of calls or 
meetings and neither has Ms W when asked. Ive seen why shes said her phone records 
may not show this information in the way we need.
Id like to reassure Ms W that I havent just ignored what shes told us where theres no 
evidence though. Ive had regard for alls shes sent and told us. Ms W clearly feels strongly 
that something has gone wrong and her strength of feeling is reflected in how far shes 
pursued her complaint. But I have to be impartial here and I cant hold NatWest liable for 
something that there simply is no persuasive evidence of, or any detail about.
It may also help to explain that even if I were to conclude that NatWest had made mistakes  
it remains that this service cant compel it to provide her banking services or complete a 
switch. Thats a decision that NatWest is entitled to make. Its provided Ms W with the 
relevant number of the account switching service and has explained that in the respect of 
her other accounts, such as a bond and ISA she has mentioned, these wouldnt be covered 
by the current account switching service.
In these circumstances I cant tell NatWest that it needs to take any further action. I know 
this will disappoint Ms W after all the frustrations shes had when dealing with this complaint, 
but my decision marks the end of this services involvement with her complaint here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
James Staples
Ombudsman