DRN-4155718
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her savings account in error. 
What happened
Mrs S has explained that in July 2022 she completed forms sent to her by Barclays and gave 
an updated UK address. Mrs S had previously resided abroad which was the address 
Barclays had on file for her. Barclays has advised it didnt receive anything from Mrs S 
updating her address in July 2022. 
Barclays says it continued to write to Mrs S at the address it had on file for her to request 
information about her residency and tax status. Ultimately, Barclays says it took the decision 
to close Mrs S savings account when no response to its letters was received. 
Mrs S says that on 25 February 2023 she found a letter from Barclays on her online banking 
facility dated 8 January 2023 advising it intended to close her account. Barclays has 
confirmed the account was closed on 2 February 2023 after no contact from Mrs S was 
received. 
Mrs S went on to raise a complaint. Barclays amended Mrs S address to her residence in 
the UK and paid her £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs S has told us she 
was advised that Barclays would be in touch to make arrangements to reopen her account, 
but no follow up contact was received. 
Mrs S contacted Barclays again in March 2023 and said her complaint had been closed in 
error. Mrs S asked Barclays to reopen the account without delay. Around the same time, the 
Financial Ombudsman Service asked Barclays to provide a copy of its complaint file. In its 
submission to us, Barclays confirmed it had taken steps to reopen Mrs S savings account 
and that her funds had been paid back into it. Barclays confirmed the interest that wouldve 
accrued was added to the account. Barclays advised it wanted to offer Mrs S a further £50, 
taking the total award to £100, to resolve her complaint. 
Our investigator thought Barclays had dealt with Mrs S complaint fairly and resolved the 
issues raised. Mrs S asked to appeal and said she wasnt satisfied that Barclays had 
explained why her account was closed and that the £100 settlement didnt reflect the time 
taken or inconvenience caused. As Mrs S asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I can understand why Mrs S is upset that her savings account closed without receiving 
notice. And I understand Mrs S completed forms Barclays sent her in July 2022 and returned 
them so expected her address in the UK to be recorded. But I have to be fair to both sides, 
and Barclays has confirmed it didnt receive anything from Mrs S in July 2022 with her new 
address. So whilst I understand Mrs S complied with Barclays request for a form to be 
completed, Im satisfied Barclays didnt receive it. I think Barclays would have evidence if it 
had received Mrs S form or a request to amend her address last year. But no record of that 
nature exists. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I havent found evidence that shows Barclays 
made a mistake as it didnt receive details of her new address. 
Barclays continued to write to Mrs S at her last known address. I understand a letter dated 8 
January 2023 was made available online, but I think the failure to receive its other letters 
reflects the address Barclays was writing to. And, as Ive said above, Barclays has confirmed 
it didnt receive details of Mrs S new address in July 2022. It was only when Mrs S 
complained in February 2023 that her address was amended. 
Barclays says it shouldve taken steps to reopen Mrs S savings account but didnt due to a 
systems error. I can understand why Mrs S is frustrated that Barclays failed to act on its 
promise to reopen her account in good time. Im pleased Barclays has since confirmed the 
account is open again and interest Mrs S savings wouldve accrued has been paid. Im 
satisfied that puts Mrs S account back into the right position. 
Ive considered whether Barclays offer of a further £50 for the delays in reopening Mrs S 
account (taking the total award to £100) is fair. In response to the investigator, Mrs S 
explained shed spent around 100 minutes calling Barclays at a cost of around £12. Mrs S 
says her time cost £75 for the period she was dealing with Barclays and her complaint. I take 
Mrs S point and accept she did spend a reasonable period of time dealing with the issues 
raised. But, overall, Im satisfied that compensation of £100 taking Mrs S call costs as well 
as the overall distress and inconvenience caused to her is a fair and reasonable way to 
resolve her complaint. To put it another way, the settlement is very much in line with what I 
wouldve told Barclays to pay, had no offer been made. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I 
havent found grounds to tell Barclays to increase the settlement further. 
As Im satisfied Barclays has explained what happened, reopened Mrs S account and 
agreed a fair settlement Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman