DRN-2007799
The complaint
Mr V complains about the settlement Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited offered for his 
claim on his landlords insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr V had a landlords insurance policy with Lloyds for a property he rents out. In 
September 2017 Mr Vs tenants moved out of the property. Then in October 2017 there was 
a break in at the property. The copper water tank and pipes throughout the building were 
stolen. This led to extensive water damage to the property. Mr V reported the break in to the 
police and made a claim on his insurance.
Lloyds sent out a loss adjuster to inspect the damage. Shortly after this drying commenced 
followed by strip out works.
In February 2018 a scope of works was produced, and Lloyds put the work out to tender. It 
obtained two quotes from contractors for the repairs. However Mr V decided he would prefer 
to have a cash settlement. Lloyds offered a settlement of £54,875 for the repair work, based 
on the lower of the two quotes. 
Mr V wasnt happy with this amount. He said there were a number of items missing from the 
scope of works and he thought the settlement should be closer to £70,000. Further he said 
Lloyds should also pay for the rent he lost out on while the property was being repaired. 
Lloyds didnt agree that the settlement should be increased. It said the costs Mr V was 
concerned about were included in the scope of works. However it agreed to pay seven 
months loss of rent on top of the repair costs. This was based on the repair work taking ten 
months and allowing three months for the property to be marketed and a tenant found. This 
amounted to an extra £10,850.
Mr V didnt agree this was enough, he made a complaint to Lloyds. He said he would have 
been able to get a tenant straight away so the rent payments should reflect this. He also 
thought the following costs should be covered by Lloyds:
Council tax and electricity bills while the property was unoccupied.
VAT on top of the amount of the repairs
Reimbursement for the emergency plumber and for getting an electrical report in the 
initial stages of the claim.
Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint and maintained its original cash settlement offer. Mr V 
wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought the cash settlement offer was fair so didnt think Lloyds should do 
any more. Mr V didnt agree with this, so his complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cash settlement for repair work
I have started by considering the cash settlement offered for the repairs. Lloyds loss 
adjuster originally put together a detailed scope of works. This was then put out for tender to 
three contractors. Two of these returned quotes. There was a small difference between the 
costs of the two, but this appears to be largely due to fees charged. It was the lower of the 
two quotes that Lloyds based it cash settlement on. 
From looking at the process Lloyds has followed when reaching the amount for the repairs, 
Im satisfied it has acted fairly. The cost is based on a detailed scope of works and while it 
has chosen the lower quote, this wasnt a lot less than the other quote provided. So Im 
satisfied it is a fair amount for the work required.
Mr V has raised concerns that the scope of works doesnt include all the necessary repair 
work. He has raised this with Lloyds. I can see from the correspondence provided that 
Lloyds responded to each of his concerns and explained that these costs had already been 
included in the quote. 
Mr V has said he still isnt happy with the amount offered. However he hasnt provided any 
evidence to show what he thinks is missing and why. And as Lloyds has provided a detailed 
scope of works and costings for the repairs, I am satisfied that the amount offered for the 
repairs is fair.
Mr V has also said its not fair that Lloyds has excluded VAT from the settlement amount for 
the repairs. I want to assure Mr V that this is quite normal practise with insurers. This is 
because not all companies who may complete the work will be registered to charge VAT. 
However should Mr V use a company who charge VAT, he will need to provide an invoice to 
Lloyds so that it can pay the relevant amount.
Loss of rent
Lloyds has offered to pay seven months loss of rent. However Mr V doesnt think this is 
enough. Mr Vs policy states it will provide cover for: Rent you should have received but 
have lost. This will usually mean that loss of rent is only provided where rent would have 
been received and the only reason it hasnt been is due to the insured event  in this case 
the water damage. 
Mr Vs tenants had already moved out before the event took place. So at this point he 
wouldnt have been receiving rent. However Lloyds has said it thinks its likely that Mr V 
would have been able to rent the property if the theft and subsequent water damage hadnt 
happened. So it has agreed to pay loss of rent, but allowed three months for when Mr V 
would have been without rental income due to finding new tenants. Theyve calculated the 
repair works should take around ten months, so have agreed to pay for seven months.
Mr V says this isnt fair as the repairs have taken much longer than this to complete and he 
would have been able to place a tenant within a month, not three. While I sympathise with 
Mr V, I dont agree Lloyds offer is unfair. I can see that it has taken longer for the house to 
be restored. However as Mr V requested the claim is cash settled, the amount of time the 
repairs take to complete is out of Lloyds control. So I dont agree it should pay for the time it 
has taken to restore the house. Further, it isnt possible to know how long it would have 
taken for Mr V to find new tenants. However as his last tenant moved out around two weeks 
before the theft, it seems likely it would have taken a bit of time for the property to be marketed, viewed and for relevant checks to be carried out on prospective tenants. So I 
dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to deduct three months from the total amount paid. 
For these reasons I think Lloyds has treated Mr V fairly when settling his claim for loss of 
rent, so I wont ask it pay anything more.
Additional costs
Mr V has also said he should be reimbursed for the cost of calling out an emergency 
plumber and for an electrical survey Lloyds loss adjuster had asked him to complete. 
However he hasnt provided invoices to show how much he has spent on these services, or 
evidence that Lloyds loss adjuster said the costs would be covered. 
I wouldnt expect Lloyds to reimburse costs relating to a claim without evidence of how much 
was paid. So in the absence of this evidence, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly by not 
reimbursing these costs. 
Mr V has also said that Lloyds should pay for the council tax and heating bills he has had to 
pay while the property hasnt had tenants. While loss of rent is covered under the policy, the 
cost of bills while a property isnt tenanted isnt. And this is quite usual for landlord insurance 
policies. So I dont agree that Lloyds should pay these extra costs as they arent covered 
under the policy.
For these reasons, I am satisfied that the settlement offered by Lloyds for Mr Vs claim is fair 
and reasonable. So I wont ask it to pay anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman