DRN-1988899
The complaint
Mr M says Ageas Insurance Limited didnt offer him enough for his stolen motorbike and 
provided poor service when handling the claim on his motorbike insurance policy.
What happened
After Mr Ms bike was stolen, he made a claim with Ageas on 21 June 2019. He says Ageas 
delayed in offering him a settlement sum initially and he had to chase it for progress. In July 
2019 it offered him £1,500, which he says was the price hed paid for it 19 years previously. 
Mr M said Ageas took no steps to establish the bikes market value. He said hed spent a 
huge amount of money on it over the years and believed it was worth £9,500. Mr M sent 
Ageas examples of bikes hed seen advertised for sale, plus the views of two specialist 
dealers. Ageas raised its offer to £4,000 on 23 August 2019. 
Mr M was unhappy with the revised offer. In its response to his complaint, Ageas said his 
bike wasnt listed in the motor guides it usually checks to establish market value. It said its 
engineers had looked at the examples provided by Mr M and that it thought £4,000 was a 
fair valuation. Mr M then complained to us about Ageass decision. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint. He noted that Mr M wasnt happy that 
Ageas hadnt explained what research it had done to reach its valuation, or that it hadnt 
acknowledged the sum Mr M had spent on the bike. The investigator said it seemed Ageas 
didnt think Mr Ms bike was in the best condition, and thought its mileage was high. He said 
there were few examples of similar bikes for sale, and that the prices of them varied hugely. 
He said without evidence that items bought for the bike had increased its value, that couldnt 
be taken into account. And he didnt think compensation for delay would be fair, as Mr M 
wouldnt have accepted £4,000 had it been offered at the outset. 
Mr M said Ageas had been looking at the wrong model of his bike. He said model x (his 
bikes model) is collectable, so adverts for that model are always priced at over £9,000. He 
said Ageas had shown its lack of knowledge about bikes in commenting on the bikes 
mileage - which he said is irrelevant if consumables (such as the wheels) have been 
replaced. Mr M said in noting the bikes condition, Ageas had said a side panel was missing, 
when in fact both side panels had been removed by Mr M, to expose the engine. He 
disagreed that the tank showed poor paintwork, when in fact it had been modified, as a 
design choice. Mr M also said Ageas had ignored the fact that the bike was taken from a 
public place by professional thieves, who wouldnt have risked it for a bike worth £4,000. And 
he said the investigator hadnt considered the claims poor handling.
Mr M suggested that the investigator should contact some classic bike dealers  which he 
did, in addition to seeking an independent valuation. It wasnt possible to get a valuation. But 
two classic bike dealerships said that when a bike is modified, it decreases its value and 
narrows the market for sale. They confirmed that the bikes mileage would be irrelevant, but 
both said an imported bike such as Mr Ms would be worth less than one registered here. 
The dealerships estimated that a bike similar to Mr Ms would be worth between £3,000 and 
£5,000. 
The investigator discussed his view with Mr M and his partner. Much of the conversation was 
about their not accepting that Ageas had shown it had considered the evidence theyd 
submitted. The investigator thought it had done so, but Mr M and his partner said there was 
no proof of that  or that Ageas had contacted classic dealerships. They said they were 
unhappy with Ageass service, partly because they thought it had done no work to establish 
the bikes market value and partly because they had to chase it for progress. Mr M said he 
wanted the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr M was unhappy about the way Ageas valued his bike initially. Its first offer 
was very low and the engineer didnt appear to have carried out much research, although he 
did check the trade guides and he also looked at adverts. Mr M doesnt think Ageas 
considered the evidence he submitted, but theres no evidence of that. I think the notes on 
the businesss file show that it was considered  and that it led to an increase in Ageass 
offer for the bike. 
 
Recently we queried with Ageas whether its engineer had considered adverts for model x 
versions of the bike. The engineer said hed looked at bikes of a similar age and style and 
would have looked at model x adverts if hed been able to find any. We also asked Ageas 
about the engineers comment that the bikes mileage detracted from its value. The engineer 
said he still believed that was the case when compared to like-for-like bikes. And he said the 
fact that the bike was imported and had been modified also reduced its value.
Valuing any type of vehicle can be difficult, let alone classic vehicles that arent shown in the 
trade guides insurers normally rely on. The problem with adverts is that they reflect asking 
prices, which are open to negotiation, and that there can be huge variations between 
vehicles that appear to be similar. In this case, the bike was imported, and not many were for 
sale in the UK. So I think it was even harder than usual to estimate what the bikes market 
value was likely to be. The available adverts varied greatly in terms of asking price.
  
Faced with this situation, I think it would have been useful for Ageas to have consulted 
classic bike specialists (as well as considering the examples Mr M submitted, plus the ones 
its engineer found). When Mr M contacted specialist dealers, one of them said he thought a 
bike similar to Mr Ms bike was likely to cost at least £7,500. The other specialist dealer 
noted how hard it was to find examples of similar bikes for sale. He thought Mr M would 
have to pay around £4,500 for a bike similar to the one hed lost. 
The investigator later found some adverts, but I dont think they were helpful to Mr Ms case, 
for the reasons set out above. He also contacted two specialist dealerships. They said the 
mileage on a model x bike wasnt relevant, just as Mr M had already told us. But they also 
said the value of a model x bike would be much reduced by any modifications that took it 
away from its original classic state. They said that would narrow the sales market and that a 
bike like Mr Ms would be worth between £3,000 and £5,000. 
 
I have no doubt that Mr M kept the bike in good condition and that it was well-maintained. 
But making changes to a vehicle often doesnt add to its value and can sometimes detract 
from it. Mr M says the modifications meant his bike was fashionable and highly desirable. 
But the views from specialist dealers indicate that there was a smaller market for the 
modified bike than if Mr M had kept it in its original state. So I think the changes Mr M made 
are more likely than not to have had an adverse effect on the bikes market value, despite 
the fact that the bike was more valuable than ever to Mr M.Mr M says professional thieves must have taken the bike  and that they wouldnt have 
bothered stealing one that was only worth £4,000. I can see why he made that assumption, 
but I dont think it cant be proven either way. I dont think the circumstances of the theft 
show that the bike must have been worth well over the sum Ageas offered Mr M. 
In terms of Ageass service, I dont think there was any undue delay in July 2019. Ageas had 
to validate the claim and try to establish the bikes market value. That usually takes a few 
weeks. I think it should have contacted classic bike specialists before making its first offer to 
Mr M, given how hard the valuation was. But I dont think that would have speeded up the 
process. I also think it would have been good service to have given Mr M an update partway 
through the month, even if there was nothing to report. 
Mr M would still have been upset had Ageas made a higher offer earlier, as (given the views 
of specialist dealers and the other evidence Ageas had) its still likely to have been far short 
of the sum he wanted. I think the valuation dispute would have continued into August 2019 
anyway. Ageas would then have considered further evidence from Mr M, in line with its usual 
practice. But I think the process could have ended a couple of weeks earlier than it did. 
Although I think Ageass service could have been better, I dont think it did (or failed to do) 
anything that had a substantial impact on Mr M. Unfortunately, upset and inconvenience are 
inevitable following the theft of a cherished vehicle, mainly because the enjoyment of it is 
lost. If theres then a valuation dispute (which I think was inevitable in this case) it makes the 
situation even worse for the consumer. 
Ive thought carefully about whether it would be reasonable to require Ageas to pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience here, and I dont think it would. In my opinion, 
it made Mr M a reasonable offer for his bike, and its service in general was adequate. So 
although I understand why Mr M wasnt happy with the way Ageas dealt with his claim, I 
cant uphold his complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman