DRN-3434073
The complaint
Mr J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt reimburse him when he 
fell victim to an investment scam. 
What happened
Mr J was introduced to an investment company (Company A) via his accountant of around
four years who he seemingly trusted. Mr J said the intention was for Company A to assist 
him with his company taxes. He said he researched the company and asked a lot of 
questions before investing.
Mr J made an investment of £2,000 (which isnt part of this complaint) to Company A, via 
another account, in March 2018. Around six months later, in October 2018, Mr J made an 
investment of £200,000 from his personal account by cheque  the subject of this complaint. 
And it seems that he had full confidence in this investment at the time of making it. 
Mr J received returns over the year that followed, in line with the contract. According to 
statements, Mr J received payments of £6,000 in February 2019, May 2019, September 
2019 and October 2019. He said he was told hed have access to a portal to view the 
investment, but this never materialised. He also didnt receive any correspondence about the 
investment, such as statements. But as he was receiving payments, he didnt pursue this.
While there was further investment, Ive already concluded (in another decision) that we 
cant consider this. So Ill only be considering the £200,000 investment.
At the end of 2019, the expected payment from Company A was late. Mr J began to have 
some doubts about the investment, as there was suggestion that a company linked to it had 
gone into liquidation. 
Due to his reservations, Mr J asked to withdraw from his investments and was promised a 
return of his funds. The promised returns were based on the combination of Mr Js 
investments, but he was expecting to receive his full investment back via two payments: one 
in January 2020 and one in April 2020. But he didnt receive anything in January, and only 
received £50,000 back in April, across two payments. It appears he then received a further 
sum back between June 2020 and June 2021  but has still lost out overall.
Mr J contacted NatWest in March 2020. It said it contacted the beneficiary bank to try to 
retrieve the funds but that none of the funds remained. It said it couldnt do anything further 
to help to recover the remaining funds. NatWest has concluded that the company was acting 
in good faith by returning money to him, and concluded the matter related to a dispute with 
the company, rather than a scam. So Mr J brought his complaint to our Service.
Our investigator said it wasnt clear this investment was actually a scam, due to the high 
amounts being refunded. But she proceeded on the basis it was for completeness and 
because there was an element of doubt. She noted the payments were authorised but felt 
that NatWest should have intervened due to the high value of the payment, and because it 
was significantly out of character. But she didnt think this intervention would have made a 
difference. So, she didnt think this complaint should be upheld. 
 
But Mr J disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I got in touch with Mr J 
informally to let him know how I was minded to proceed and that, provisionally, I also didnt 
think this was a scam. As Mr J remained unhappy, Im issuing a formal decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
Im not persuaded this was a scam, as opposed to a high-risk investment. Mr J received 
returns as expected in February, May, September, and October 2019, totalling £24,000. This 
encouraged him to invest more, so it could be argued that this was a strategy for that 
purpose. However, its unusual to see such high returns being paid to induce someone to 
continue making payments. And, more specifically, its relatively unheard of for these returns 
to actually be paid to the individuals bank account, rather than simply being shown on what 
appears to be a trading platform. 
It also strikes me as extremely unlikely that, once its clear an individual isnt going to be 
investing any further funds, further payments would be made by the alleged scammer to the 
individual. But, in this case, it appears that Mr J received somewhere in the region of 
£125,000 after requesting a withdrawal of his full investment. I cant see what the alleged 
scammer would stand to gain by providing these funds at this point. I dont think it can 
reasonably be seen as a way to have rebuilt trust because Mr J was still left with a 
substantial amount that was said to be irrecoverable.
On balance, I conclude that this wasnt a scam  and that it was, instead, a high-risk 
investment. As NatWest has said, the actions of Company A, along with the broker, appear 
to be more aligned with a company dispute than a scam. I do note that the broker appeared 
to have been too involved in the investment  there was the suggestion that he was owed 
some money by Company A and he therefore retained a portion of Mr Js intended 
investment to cover that. The broker also said that he would borrow money from his family to 
repay Mr J. But these details suggest the dispute is with the broker for failing to carry out the 
contract, rather than with NatWest for allowing the money to be paid. 
So, I conclude that this wasnt a scam  and that NatWest hasnt acted in error by not 
intervening or providing a refund to Mr J. 
Though Ive concluded this wasnt a scam, I note that the matter was reported to NatWest as 
one  around 17 months after the payment was made. So Ive thought about NatWests 
actions in trying to recover the funds when it believed Mr J to have been the victim of a 
scam. And Im satisfied that it did what it reasonably could have done to recover the money, 
especially given how much time had passed. 
While I know how disappointing this will be for Mr J, and Im sorry hes lost such a large sum 
of money, I dont think NatWest can fairly be held responsible for this loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against National Westminster 
Bank Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman