DRN-4198920
The complaint
Mr C complains, through a professional third-party representative, about the advice given by 
Portafina Investment Management Limited (Portafina) about transferring benefits from 
existing pension schemes he was a member of, to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
On 18 January 2021, Mr C signed an authority, granting Portafina permission to gather 
information about three of his pension policies. He had already obtained a transfer value 
summary, in November 2020, for one of his pensions, which Ill refer to as pension A, from 
the scheme administrators. This was a defined benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
which hed accrued benefits in from a previous period of employment between April 1994 
and July 1998. The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the benefits Mr C held in this 
scheme was £47,393.
Portafina obtained details of Mr Cs other two pensions which hed asked it to consider.
One of these, which Ill call pension B, was a section 32 pension policy which would provide 
an agreed guaranteed minimum pension (GMP). The CETV of this policy was £24,066.66.
The third of Mr Cs pensions, which Ill call pension C, was a defined contribution pension 
with a transfer value at that time of £1,222.52.
Portafina wrote to Mr C on 8 April 2021, confirming it would arrange an appointment to 
discuss his pensions. It subsequently went on to complete a fact-find over the phone to 
gather information about Mr Cs circumstances and objectives. 
Mr C confirmed he was 55, married, employed but currently furloughed and none of his 
children were financially dependent. He owned his property with a mortgage which had a 
balance equivalent to approximately 34% of the value of the property. Mr C also had 
outstanding unsecured debt totalling approximately £16,000. He said his repayments were 
up to date and manageable and that he and his wife did have a small amount of disposable 
income each month, but he wished to reduce his indebtedness. And he and Mrs C had 
approximately £4,000 in savings.
In addition to the three pensions Portafina was being asked to consider, Mr C said he had a 
small pension with his current employer and another guaranteed pension, which would 
provide an income of approximately £1,000 per year.
Mr C said hed spoken to the provider of pension A about the options available under that 
policy. He was aware the benefits were guaranteed but these were rigid and didnt provide 
for draw down, and Mr C indicated he felt he wasnt going to receive the value of the CETV 
back in his lifetime, so he thought transferring was appropriate. Mr C also said hed spoken 
to a different adviser, but they had said theyd charge for advice, their advice was likely to be 
not to proceed and if that was the case there would be no further options available to Mr C 
through that adviser. Mr C explained to Portafina that his employment situation was 
uncertain as he was furloughed and he might be in a position where he needed access to 
the funds shortly. He also said he had health issues so was conscious he may not receive 
value for his pension. So, he said he wanted to consolidate the pensions into one place, 
draw the maximum possible 25% in tax-free cash (TFC) to pay off all his outstanding 
unsecured debts, using the TFC left over as an emergency fund, and leave the rest of the 
pension invested but have the option of drawing on this if he wanted to. And he said this was 
of significant importance.
Portafina also carried out an assessment of Mr Cs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
moderately cautious. It explained to Mr C this categorisation meant he was prepared to 
accept the risk of moderate fluctuations in value in order to try and improve the prospects for 
growth over time, but really he would be after a stable investment experience. Mr C agreed 
that this reflected his attitude.
On 28 April 2021, Portafina provided Mr C its abridged advice outcome. The document 
explained that The purpose of our abridged advice service is to provide you with free, initial 
advice on the possibility of transferring your defined benefit (DB) pension schemes without 
incurring the cost of full pension transfer advice. The report noted that Mr Cs objective was 
to use the tax-free cash that could be obtained by transferring to clear his unsecured debt 
and have a small sum set aside for emergencies. It said that Portafina strongly 
recommended that Mr C not transfer his pension benefits from pensions A and B. The 
reasons given were that Mr C would lose valuable guaranteed benefits, he had limited 
alternative retirement provisions, hed said his debt was manageable, he could meet his 
objectives through alternative methods such as using savings and disposable monthly 
income and his income needs in retirement would not be met. The report said Mr C could 
either accept the recommendation not to proceed or could opt to receive full pension advice, 
incurring the related fee.
Mr C signed a declaration on 28 May 2021 setting out his intention, having chosen from two 
pre-printed options. He chose the option which said I do not intend to follow your 
recommendation and wish to proceed to full pension transfer advice to continue to consider 
transferring my pension
Mr C had a further conversation with Portafina on 7 June 2021 about the fees for the advice. 
During this conversation Mr C said that it didnt matter what Portafina advised he was going 
ahead with the transfer because, as it was his money, he wanted the option to take it when 
he wanted to and that he had looked into this, and this was always what he was going to do. 
So, hed want to be an insistent client.
On 8 June 2021, Portafina sent Mr C its pension review report which detailed its full advice. 
This again said that Portafina strongly recommended that Mr C not transfer pensions A and 
B. Portafina included analysis, explaining that the CETVs of pension A and B were 
significantly less than the expected cost of obtaining comparable benefits elsewhere. And it 
explained the reasons for its recommendation were largely the same as those in its abridged 
advice, with it also being noted that Mr C had a low capacity for loss. Portafina 
recommended that instead Mr C should withdraw all of the funds from pension C, and use 
the funds received, to make a partial repayment of outstanding debt  to meet Mr Cs 
objective of at least reducing this. 
The report went on to say that if Mr C still wanted to go ahead and not follow its 
recommendation, Portafina would need to treat him as an insistent client, which it explained 
was a client who instructs them to continue even though it is against their advice. It said, if 
Mr C did opt to do this, thered be a further call to ensure Mr C fully understood the advice 
and implications of going against the recommendation.A form was included with the report setting out two options for Mr C, the first being to accept 
the recommendation just to draw money from pension C and the alternative being to 
continue against the advice, in order to release tax-free cash totalling £18,185.
Mr C completed this form on 1 July 2021, confirming he wanted to proceed against 
Portafinas advice. He ticked to say he understood he was acting against advice, he was 
giving up guaranteed income, with the statement setting out the levels that pensions A and B 
were due to provide, and that he understood the risks. He also completed a declaration in 
his own words saying With all the uncertainty in the world and my health not getting better, I 
want the option to draw down on my pension as it gives me the freedom to spend some now 
and clear all my debts giving me peace of mind, helping to settle my anxiety and stress. I 
also want the opportunity for my pot to grow and be released at any time of my choice. This I 
believe outweighs the reasons not to transfer. 
A follow up call took place on 6 July 2021. In this Mr C said he understood the benefits of his 
guaranteed pensions but said the one thing that it didnt give him was the freedom to draw it 
when he wanted to. He also said he understood the advice not to transfer was because of 
the guarantees pension A and B provided and said if the annual pension those schemes 
provided was bigger, he would likely leave them where they were. But the annual pension of 
a couple of thousand pounds, compared to the transfer value wasnt in his view valuable. 
And he still wanted to clear all of his unsecured debts with the tax-free cash.
Following this call, on 9 July 2021, Portafina sent Mr C a further pension review report. This 
again reiterated its advice was not to transfer pensions A and B and that the adviser thought 
Mr Cs need for tax-free cash didnt outweigh what he was giving up. But, as Mr C had 
decided to disregard this advice and proceed, it went on to recommend a pension provider 
and investment strategy that it felt was appropriate taking into account Mr Cs attitude to risk.
Mr C signed a further declaration on 15 July 2021 acknowledging that he was acting against 
Portafinas advice. He also completed application forms to enable the transfer to the 
recommended provider.
Mr Cs representative complained to Portafina on his behalf in November 2022. They said 
the advice given by Portafina, where it recommended Mr C transfer from pensions A and B, 
was unsuitable as it had resulted in Mr C giving up valuable guaranteed benefits. The 
representative said Mr C had not understood the implications or the risks involved.
Portafina didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said it had recommended against transferring 
and this was made clear to Mr C in writing and verbally throughout the transfer process. 
Mr C had however chosen to proceed against that advice, confirming repeatedly that he 
understood the reasons for the advice and the risks involved. And it felt it hadnt acted 
incorrectly by facilitating this and felt the recommended investment was appropriate to his 
attitude to risk.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator considered the complaint but 
didnt think it should be upheld. She said she agreed with Portafinas advice that a transfer 
wasnt suitable and felt the reasons for this and the risks had been explained. She felt there 
were some failings in the process Portafina followed  particularly around when the option to 
disregard the advice was introduced. But she was satisfied that Mr C would always have 
gone ahead with a transfer, noting hed already looked to transfer with a different adviser 
and, in conversations with Portafina, had been clear that he understood the risks but was 
always going to proceed.
Mr C did not accept the Investigators findings. As a result, the complaint was referred to me 
to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Portafinas advice
Having reviewed the advice summaries Portafina sent to Mr C and listened to the calls he 
held with it, Im satisfied that it was clear throughout that its recommendation was not to 
transfer his benefits from pensions A and B. This was set out in bold in both its abridged and 
full advice recommendations.  
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme, or other pension with safeguarded 
benefits, is that it is unsuitable, and it should only be recommended if it can be clearly 
demonstrated the transfer is in the customers best interests. And I agree with Portafina that 
transferring wasnt in Mr Cs best interests.
A pensions main purpose is to provide for the holders income needs in retirement. 
Pensions A and B guaranteed to provide escalating annual incomes to Mr C from his 
retirement, for the rest of his life. And to pay a spouses pension in the event of his death. 
Portafina concluded that these were valuable benefits and, particularly given that Mr C had 
limited alternative retirement provisions, thought these should be retained. And I think that 
was reasonable based on the information provided at the time.
Portafina also carried out a transfer value analysis (as required by the regulator). As part of 
this, it calculated a transfer value comparator (TVC)  an estimate of what sum of money 
Mr C would need to invest at that point on a risk-free return basis to provide equivalent 
benefits to the DB scheme at retirement. This showed that for pension A, the CETV was 
around £39,500 less than the amount required to replicate, on a risk-free basis, the benefits 
being given up. And the CETV of pension B was around £15,800 less than the amount 
required. In order to make up that deficit, Mr C wouldve had to achieve growth in his 
pension, through investments. And I think it was reasonable to conclude that achieving the 
required growth was unlikely, based on Mr Cs attitude to risk, and that hed potentially be 
worse off by transferring.
And while Mr C indicated he wanted to take tax-free cash and clear debts, I think Portafina 
was correct that this was not something that he needed to do  as he acknowledged that he 
was not behind with payments and that they were manageable.
Taking all of this into account, I think it was reasonable for Portafina to conclude that Mr C 
did not need to transfer and that doing so was not in his best interests. And so, its 
recommendation that he retain his benefits in pensions A and B was suitable.
In addition to the recommendation being, in my view, suitable and its reports setting out what 
this was, Im also satisfied that Portafina explained the reasons for this clearly and 
consistently in its communication with Mr C. The reasons a transfer was not in Mr Cs interests were set out in a specific section of both its abridged and full advice report. And Im 
satisfied, having listened to the call recordings provided, that Mr C made it clear to Portafina 
that he understood these reasons.
And I think the risks involved with disregarding the advice were also explained by Portafina. 
The loss of guaranteed benefits was referred to throughout its reports  something which 
Mr C again confirmed he was aware of. The full advice reports also both made it clear what 
level of benefit pensions A and B wouldve provided to Mr C and that these were being given 
up by transferring. And they explained that these benefits were guaranteed for life, whereas 
benefits under a pension following a transfer were not guaranteed, which again Mr C 
acknowledged.
So overall, I think the advice provided by Portafina was clear and suitable.
The insistent client process
COBS 9.5A sets out guidance for businesses dealing with insistent clients  including 
around what information should be explained in its advice and the acknowledgement the 
business should obtain from the customer.
As Ive explained Im satisfied that Portafina was clear that it did not recommend that Mr C 
transfer his pension benefits, on several occasions, why it made this recommendation and 
why a transfer wasnt in line with that recommendation and the risks involved. This is in line 
with the information that the regulator recommends be shared.
Im also satisfied that Mr C acknowledged several times that he was acting against 
Portafinas recommendation by transferring. He signed declarations on 28 May, 1 July and 
15 July 2021 to the effect. He also confirmed verbally that he wished to go ahead. And, as 
Ive explained above, the acknowledgment he completed on 1 July 2021 also included an 
explanation of the reason he was still seeking to transfer in his own words. And this was 
again in line with the guidance set by the regulator.
This notwithstanding though, like our Investigator, I do have some concerns about the 
process Portafina followed. 
The introductory letter Portafina sent to Mr C, after he first contacted them explained it was 
gathering information from his pension providers. And it said Once this information is 
received we will contact you to confirm how much tax-free cash you can take from your 
pension, and to arrange your telephone appointment with one of our paraplanners. So 
before even speaking to Mr C about his circumstances and objectives, Portafina emphasised 
the release of money from the pension through transferring. Which in my view is at odds with 
the starting assumption in COBS 19.1.6G.
Ive listened to a recording of the initial conversation with the paraplanner. In that Mr C 
explained hed spoken to another adviser already, but they had suggested that whatever 
their advice was, Mr C would have to accept that. Portafina at that point emphasised that its 
approach was that the choice was ultimately Mr Cs and that he would have the option of 
disregarding the advice. While Mr C had indicated he would be looking to transfer, I dont 
think introducing the option at that stage of ignoring the regulated advice Portafina would 
subsequently provide was appropriate.
And, while the abridged and full advice were in my view clear that Portafina was 
recommending against a transfer, they both included forms and instructions for how Mr C 
could go about ignoring that advice. And the forms largely gave him the option of doing so by 
simply ticking a box. I dont think this was appropriate. Given Portafina said its advice was not to go ahead, I believe it shouldve given this advice and the reasons why and left it to 
Mr C to consider this further. If he had then contacted it to see if it could still help, then itd 
have been fair to share this information. But to promote this option at the point it did, in my 
view, undermined the importance of the recommendation it was making. Which Im not sure 
was in line with Mr Cs interests.
So overall, I think Portafina made it too easy for Mr C to identify as an insistent client 
without taking the relevant time to consider the advice and the reasons for it.
Would Mr C have acted differently?
Mr Cs representatives have argued that Mr C didnt understand what being an insistent 
client meant, because of his lack of investment experience. But Im satisfied that Mr C was 
aware that he was acting against the recommendation given to him  and this was what 
being insistent meant. 
And while I do think there were flaws with the advice process Portafina followed, for largely 
the same reasons given by our Investigator, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, 
I dont think these have resulted in Mr C being in a position he wouldnt otherwise have been 
in.
Mr C had obtained a transfer value for pension A before speaking to Portafina. He also 
confirmed in conversation with Portafina that he had researched transferring his pensions 
before contacting it and that he had spoken to a different independent financial adviser. And 
it was that other advisers suggestion that they wouldnt facilitate the transfer in the event it 
wasnt recommended that prompted Mr C to contact Portafina. So, before speaking to 
Portafina, it appears Mr C was of the mind to transfer his pension benefits  regardless of 
advice to the contrary.
Mr C also clearly explained his motivations for doing so and the strength of feeling he had 
about these. He indicated he didnt expect to receive value for his pensions, based on the 
guaranteed income pension A and B were due to provide to him. And he was clear that he 
wanted to improve his financial situation and clear all of his unsecured debt and have the 
ability to draw benefits from the pension when he chose. While, like Portafina, I dont think 
clearing debt was something that Mr C needed to do, he was clear that having these debts 
was causing him worry, anxiety and stress and that he was determined to achieve this 
objective, and to do so by transferring, something he repeated, in his own words, when 
returning one of the declarations confirming he wished to proceed on an insistent client 
basis.
Ive also listened to the conversations that Mr C had with Portafina. And in these he was 
clear he intended to proceed, regardless of the advice provided. He acknowledged that he 
was giving up guaranteed benefits but that he didnt value those highly and that his 
motivations were of greater importance to him. And he repeated this several times, even 
after the value of the guarantees had been emphasised by Portafina. He also went as far as 
to say, unprompted and before hed received full advice, it didnt matter what the advice from 
Portafina said as he was going to go ahead with a transfer.
So, taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that Mr C was minded to proceed with a 
transfer even before speaking to Portafina. Despite receiving clear reasoning why this wasnt 
in his interests, this didnt sway his opinion. And throughout the advice process he made this 
clear. So, even if the option of proceeding against advice had not been set out in the manner 
it was, Im satisfied that Mr C wouldve always sought to proceed with a transfer. 
The provider Portafina recommended to Mr C and the investment portfolio suggested for his pension appear to have been in line with his requirements and attitude to risk. So, in the 
circumstances, I think hed have always been in the position he is now in. As a result, I dont 
require Portafina to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman