DRN-4019233
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handles a claim he made 
on his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S held a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Advantage. When his van was stolen 
he made a claim for the loss.
Mr S complains about that claim. He says it took too long to settle. He says he made the 
claim in April but it wasnt settled until September. He says he was told hed get a hire 
vehicle but never did. He said this caused inconvenience because he was without his van 
which he needed for work. Hes said this meant he had to get a second job.
Advantage said some of the delay was because of the van being in police custody after it 
was recovered. It said Mr S wasnt entitled to a hire vehicle because his vehicle wasnt 
repairable. But it said it tried to source one but was unable to due to a nationwide shortage 
of them at the time. It offered Mr S £100 compensation initially. It then increased that offer to 
£250.
But Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended the complaint be upheld. She acknowledged some 
delay was out of Advantages control. But she thought it should pay Mr S £10 per day for the 
time he was without his vehicle which it was responsible for and settlement of his claim. She 
also recommended it increase its compensation to £500.
Mr S agreed, but Advantage didnt. It didnt think Mr S had evidenced his losses. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr Ss vehicle was stolen in April 2022. But it spent over a month in police custody. 
This isnt Advantages responsibility, so it need do nothing regarding this.
But Mr Ss vehicle wasnt collected until two weeks after it was released. Advantage 
then thought it to be repairable  so a courtesy/replacement vehicle should have 
been arranged at this time.
There were further delays in appointing a repairer and ultimately another engineer 
was appointed who then deemed the car a total loss. After this a settlement was 
made to Mr S for the market value of his vehicle and the claim was settled.
Technically speaking, Mr S is only entitled to a hire/courtesy if his is repairable, and 
his vehicle was never repaired, nor did repairs commence. But, for the majority of the 
time Mr Ss car was with Advantage, it was thought to be repairable, and it was off 
the road. So, I think the fair and reasonable thing to have done would have been to 
put Mr S in a hire vehicle during this time. I appreciate Advantage struggled locating 
one, but it should have done something else to assist.
£10 a day for loss of use is a reasonable starting point, and Im satisfied that fairly 
applies here. Advantage and our investigator calculated this to be 76 days. So, 
Advantage should pay Mr S £760 for loss of use while he was without his vehicle.
Mr S said he needed his van for work. And he says without it he lost out on clients 
and income. Hes not been able to quantify that loss, and Advantage has pointed out 
he got a second job. So, Im not going to require Advantage to pay for loss of income. 
But while getting a second job mitigated Mr Ss losses, it will have no doubt added to 
the distress and inconvenience experienced throughout this claim.
After the claim, the policy lapsed  because there was no vehicle to insure. But 
Advantage still took payments which they said were in error. Mr S had to chase a 
number of times for the refund, which added to the distress and inconvenience.
Advantage later renewed Mr Ss policy  despite there being no vehicle to insure. But 
because Mr S had cancelled the direct debit previously, so it wrote to him chasing a 
balance it was never due. It admitted this error, but this too will have added to the 
distress and inconvenience Mr S experienced.
Im satisfied £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience is reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. There were delays in settling the claim which 
Advantage are responsible for. Mr S was without a vehicle for the duration, affecting 
his work and meaning he had to take up a second job. And after the claim there were 
issues with Advantage taking and chasing payments it shouldnt have.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right, I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr S £760 for loss of use of his vehicle
Pay Mr S at total of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman