DRN-4361698
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc unfairly declined a claim under her pet 
insurance policy and about the service she received.
What happened
In August 2022 Mrs F took out a pet insurance policy for her dog after having received a 
quote from a price comparison site.
Mrs F made a claim under the policy for treatment of bleeding from the nasal planum 
(external nose). At that point Pinnacle looked at the dogs medical history. The clinical notes 
showed that the dog had previously suffered from a crack in the nasal planum and various 
other skin problems in 2021 and 2022. 
Pinnacle said if it had known about these conditions, it would have placed an exclusion on 
the policy for skin problems. It declined the claim as the treatment claimed for would have 
fallen under an exclusion for skin problems.
Pinnacle also added other exclusions to the policy for other conditions referred to in the 
dogs medical history.
Mrs F thought that was unfair. She also complained that Pinnacle hadnt told her vet that the 
claim had been declined. Pinnacle said it hadnt contacted the vet as Mrs F had requested 
that any payment be made to her. Mrs F was unhappy that she hadnt been called back as 
promised. Pinnacle apologised and paid her £25 compensation for that.
Mrs F brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. He didnt think Pinnacle needed to do anything more.
Since Mrs F didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
As part of the application process, a question was asked whether the dog had ever shown 
signs of illness or injury. Pinnacle said it needed to know anything Mrs F had noticed or 
discussed with her vet or other professional about her dogs health or behaviour. The answer 
given was No.
CIDRA sets out a number of things that need to be considered when deciding whether a 
consumer took reasonable care. One is how clear the question was. I think the question that 
was asked about pre-existing medical conditions was clear. And in view of her pets medical 
history Im not persuaded that Mrs F took reasonable care in answering it. 
Pinnacle has provided evidence that shows if the question had been answered correctly, it 
would still have provided cover but added an exclusion to the policy for skin conditions.
This means Im satisfied that Mrs Fs misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Pinnacle hasnt been clear in how it classified Mrs Fs misrepresentation here. I consider it to 
have been a careless misrepresentation - rather than deliberate or reckless. I say this 
because I believe it to have been a mistake by Mrs F. 
Ive then looked at the actions Pinnacle can take in accordance with CIDRA. Pinnacle was 
entitled to treat the contract as if it had been entered into on the terms which it would have 
offered if it had been given correct information at the outset. So I think Pinnacle has acted 
fairly by applying the exclusion for skin problems. That means Mrs Fs dogs treatment falls 
under one of the exclusions and isnt covered by the policy.
Mrs Fs vet says that the dog presented with haemorrhage from the left side of his nose after 
lesions had been developing. She thought the dog had an ulcerative disease of the nasal 
planum as opposed to a skin allergy or disease. I dont doubt the vets opinion. But the fact is 
that the treatment involved putting ligatures into the cracks in the skin and applying skin 
balms. I think its fair to class that as treatment of a skin problem which was excluded under 
the policy.
As Mrs F didnt renew the policy with Pinnacle and didnt make a claim which was rejected 
because of the other exclusions added to the policy by Pinnacle, they are no longer relevant 
and I dont need to consider them further.
Lastly Ive looked at how Pinnacle handled the claim. Mrs F says that Pinnacle failed to keep 
her informed. But I can see that it wrote to her several times in January and February 2023. 
The letters were correctly addressed. Its unfortunate that Mrs F didnt receive them but I 
cant fairly hold Pinnacle responsible for that. I also dont think there was any unreasonable 
delay in assessing the claim. There were problems with the phone line when Mrs F called 
Pinnacle and it failed to call her back when promised. But it has paid £25 compensation for 
that which I think is reasonable in the circumstances. Apart from this, overall I dont think 
there were any significant failings on the part of Pinnacle.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman