DRN-4152830
The complaint
Miss R complains about how Loans 2 Go Limited treated her when she fell into financial 
difficulties, and about how much interest she was charged on her loan.
What happened
In December 2019 Miss R took out a regulated, unsecured fixed sum loan for £650. The 
APR was 1,013.2%, the total interest was £2,024.08, and she was to repay a total of 
£2,674.08, by paying £148.56 each month for 18 months. She set up a continuous payment 
authority.
Miss R soon fell into financial difficulties and missed her payments. Throughout 2020 she 
made arrangements to pay but still missed payments. During that year she told Loans 2 Go 
that she had been evicted, and that her income had been reduced due to the covid 
pandemic. She was served a default notice, although her account was not actually defaulted 
until June 2021.
In January 2021 Miss R sent Loans 2 Go medical evidence from her doctor stating that she 
had anxiety, depression and post-traumatic stress syndrome. She agreed to pay £100 a 
month for three months, after which her account would be reviewed. In April 2021 Miss R 
agreed to resume making her contractual payments, but in May she missed a payment and, 
as Ive said, her account was defaulted in June. Her outstanding balance today is £607.04.
Miss R complained to Loans 2 Go about the default, and in February 2022 it sent her its final 
response letter about that issue. That letter said that she had six months in which to refer her 
complaint to our service if she wanted to, but she didnt do that at the time. Later, she 
complained again, this time about the interest and the outstanding balance, as well as about 
the default. She said she had been overcharged, and that Loans 2 Go had not been clear 
about how much she owed. Loans 2 Go sent her its final response about that second 
complaint in January 2023. It told her it had already dealt with her complaint about the 
default, and so it wouldnt consider that matter again. It said the terms of her loan agreement 
had been clear about how much she would have to pay. This time, Miss R brought a 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator said it was too late to consider Miss Rs complaint about the default. He did 
not criticise the loan agreement. But he decided that Loans 2 Go should have treated Miss R 
as a vulnerable customer once it had received her medical evidence, and he thought it had 
failed to do that, because it had sent her a multitude of text messages about her arrears 
during a time when it had known that she was in financial difficulties and that she was 
vulnerable for medical reasons. He thought Loans 2 Go should have shown her more 
forbearance, and that it should have waived the interest that still remained unpaid as at 19 
January 2021 (being the date on which she had provided her medical evidence). For those 
reasons, he upheld this complaint. He recommended that Loans 2 Go rework Miss Rs 
account so that all the interest that remained unpaid from 19 January 2021 was removed or 
waived. Then if that resulted in Miss R having overpaid, the overpayment was to be refunded 
with interest. Or if she still owed money, then Loans 2 Go was to agree an affordable 
payment plan with her. And he thought that it should also pay her £150 for having bothered 
her with all of its text messages.
Loans 2 Go did not accept that opinion. It reiterated that the terms of the loan agreement 
had been clear. It said it had tried to help Miss R as much as it could once she had told it 
about her financial difficulties and medical issues. (It added that there was no reason why 
Miss Rs credit file should be amended, although the investigator had made no such 
recommendation.) It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not considered the defaulting of Miss Rs account, because (as my colleague has 
explained) she did not bring this complaint to us within the deadline.
I do not uphold Miss Rs complaint about the amount of interest. That is for two reasons. 
Firstly, the terms of the loan agreement were very clear about how much interest she would 
be charged and how much she would have to repay in total. And secondly, she chose to 
accept those terms. Its too late now for her to decide that the interest was too much; she 
has agreed to pay it.
I also do not uphold her complaint about Loans 2 Go not being clear about what she owed. It 
sent her statements about her account which showed how much she had paid and how 
much she still owed, and I think that information was displayed clearly. The outstanding 
balance of £607.04 appears to me to be correct.
That just leaves how Loans 2 Go treated her when it learned that she was in financial 
difficulties. And I have decided to uphold that complaint, for broadly the same reason as my 
colleague.
That is not to say that Loans 2 Go did nothing to help Miss R. There is evidence that it did 
agree to accept reduced payments from her in an effort to help her. But once it knew that 
she was vulnerable for medical reasons, I think it should not have contacted her so 
frequently to remind her that she was in arrears, as this must have been stressful for her. 
I have noted the fact that some of these messages were ones which it was required by 
regulations to send, and so I will leave these ones out of consideration. But even if I only 
count the messages which Loans 2 Go did not have to send, then I think there were far too 
many of them; sometimes twice in a day. In the four-month period from April to July 2021, 
the following non-regulatory messages were sent to Miss R chasing her for payment:
April 14, 17, 22, 24.
May 1 (two messages), 4, 7, 10, 12, 14, 17, 19, 21, 24, 25, 26 (twice), 31.
June 1 (twice), 2, 3 (twice), 4 (twice), 5, 7 (twice), 8 (twice), 9 (twice), 11, 12,14, 19, 
23, 24, 25.
July 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, 12, 14, 16, 19, 22, 24, 26, 27, 29, 31.
I think that was excessive for a vulnerable customer, and so for that reason I will uphold this 
complaint.Putting things right
The investigator though that Loans 2 Go should have waived all of the outstanding interest 
from the date that Miss R told it about her health issues, 19 January 2021. I dont agree that 
Loans 2 Go had to do that, because although it did have a duty to treat Miss R 
sympathetically and positively, there is more than one way to do that, and a lender has the 
right to decide for itself which approach to take to best accomplish that aim. It could have 
waived all the remaining interest, or it could have chosen to do something else.
However, as a method of working out a fair way to resolve this complaint, I think it would be 
reasonable to adopt the investigators approach to calculating the compensation to be paid 
to Miss R. So I will order that Loans 2 Go do the following:
Loans 2 Go must rework Miss Rs account so that all of the interest that still remained 
outstanding from 19 January 2021 is waived, and that all payments made to the 
account since then are treated as reducing the capital balance.
Then, if that re-working results in Miss R having paid more in total than she was 
liable to pay under the loan agreement, the amount of the overpayment must be 
refunded to her, with simple interest at the rate of 8% a year from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. And if there has been no over-payment, then 
Loans 2 Go must agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss R for the remaining 
balance (for it to be able to do this, Miss R should provide details of her current 
income and expenditure if Loans 2 Go asks her to).
In either case, Loans 2 Go must pay Miss R £150 for her inconvenience, without off-
setting that payment against her remaining debt (if any).
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Loans 2 Go Limited to put things right in 
the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman