DRN-3796615
The complaint
Mr B has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim he made for water 
ingress to his property.
What happened
Mr B noticed water ingress through the flat roof above his porch in October 2021. He 
reported this to his building insurer, Aviva.
Mr Bs property is covered by an all risks, block buildings policy. This means the named 
policyholder is the freeholder of Mr Bs housing development, but Mr B is entitled to claim on 
the policy as a beneficiary. As I understand it, Mr B reported the issue to Aviva, and it came 
out to consider whether his roof had been damaged by a storm.
Aviva determined the leak had most likely been caused by the poor condition of Mr Bs 
neighbours adjoining roof, rather than by a storm. Mr B agreed with Avivas conclusions and 
asked for Avivas assistance in getting his neighbour to repair her roof to address the water 
ingress. Aviva explained it was not able to get involved in a dispute between Mr B and his 
neighbour. 
Aviva said it could potentially consider a claim for the internal damage. But it wouldnt look to 
settle the claim until the cause of water ingress had been addressed  which wasnt 
something it could help with. Mr B said he didnt want to make a claim for the internal 
damage.
Mr B has since paid to have his side of the roof repaired and raised above the level of his 
neighbours. Hed like Aviva to reimburse the costs he incurred in doing so.
Our investigator considered matters, but she didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly in not 
involving itself in a dispute between Mr B and his neighbour. She said she couldnt say 
whether or not a claim from Mr Bs neighbour would be likely to be successful. And she said 
it was fair for Aviva not to consider covering any internal damage until the cause of the water 
ingress had been addressed.
Because no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr Bs policy is a block insurance policy in the name of the freeholder. The policy covers 
Mr Bs property as well as his neighbours property. But only Mr B has brought a complaint to 
this service, so whilst the policy covers his neighbour too, I cant consider any potential 
claims or impact to them as part of this complaint.
The policy is an all-risks policy, rather than a perils-based policy. This means it covers 
damage by any cause which isnt specifically excluded, as opposed to only covering specific 
insured events such as storm, flood, fire or subsidence.
Aviva s expert report concluded that Mr Bs side of the flat roof was in a fair condition and 
the water ingress was likely caused by the poor condition of the neighbouring side of the 
roof.
The policy covers both properties, but it specifically explains what is not covered on page 
nine:
We will not indemnify you in respect of
(1) Damage caused by or consisting of
(a) an existing or hidden defect
(b) gradual deterioration or wear and tear
(c) 
Avivas expert evidence suggests that the cause of water ingress to Mr Bs home was 
caused by the gradual deterioration/lack of maintenance to his neighbours roof  which is 
excluded as outlined above. 
I should also point out that, in the case of Mr Bs development, responsibility for maintaining 
the structure of the properties, including the roofs in question, rests with the respective 
leaseholders  based on the copy of the lease Ive seen. This means that Mr Bs neighbour 
would have needed to claim themselves if they felt the issues with their roof were something 
that ought to be covered by Aviva.
Taking the above into account, I cant reasonably conclude that Aviva was wrong to advise 
Mr B that the only claim it could consider, for him, would be for the internal damage. And I 
note that Mr B has thus far stated that he doesnt wish to make a claim for this.
Im aware that Mr B has since obtained his own report on the condition of his roof, and that 
he subsequently paid to have his own roof repaired, and raised above the level of his 
neighbours, to prevent further water ingress.
Mr Bs own roof report made it clear that his roof was at the end of its natural life and was 
suffering from numerous, age-related issues. While Mr Bs policy is an all-risks policy, it is 
not a maintenance contract. It does not cover Mr B for putting right age-related issues, or for 
improving the roof. So, I wouldnt expect Aviva to reimburse Mr Bs cost for repairing and 
improving his roof in these circumstances.
As Ive mentioned, Aviva has previously explained that it could consider covering the internal 
damage to Mr Bs home. But it said it would not consider settling a claim like that until the 
cause of the water ingress had been addressed  which I dont consider to be an 
unreasonable position to take.
The roofing report Mr B provided shows that Mr Bs neighbour appears to have re-covered 
their roof since Avivas inspection. And Mr B has since re-covered and raised his side of the 
roof too. So, its possible that the cause of the water ingress has now been addressed, and 
that Aviva may be able to consider a claim from Mr B about his internal damage if he now 
wishes for them to do so.Ill leave it to Mr B to decide whether he would now like to pursue such a claim. But I should 
highlight that any potential dispute which might arise from that hypothetical future claim, 
would need to be raised as a new complaint and with Aviva in the first instance.
For this complaint, Im satisfied that Aviva has dealt with Mr Bs claim and concerns fairly 
and reasonably. So, Ill not be directing it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman