DRN-1705111
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
At the beginning of March 2018 Mrs B applied for a loan with Shawbrook. The loan was for 
£6,000 over a period of 36 months and the monthly repayments were around £200.
Shawbrook says at the time of the application, Mrs B declared her income as being between 
£20,000. Shawbrook didnt ask Mrs B for details of her expenditure. It says it also carried out 
other automated checks and deemed that she could afford this loan. 
Mrs B says she had a gambling problem at the time this loan was carried out and, had 
Shawbrook carried out proportionate affordability checks and reviewed her statements, it 
would have seen this and not lent to her. So she says this lending is irresponsible.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that based on 
the information Mrs B had provided, it seems the loan was affordable. Mrs B didnt agree so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs B but Ill explain my reasoning below.
the checks
Before lending money, a creditor should take steps to ensure that the consumer can afford 
to pay it back. So Ive considered whether Shawbrook carried out proper affordability checks 
in this case.
Shawbrook has explained that this application was received via an online intermediary and, 
as such, it didnt ask Mrs B for details of her income and expenditure itself. Shawbrook has 
confirmed that it carried out relevant checks to ensure that Mrs B could afford the monthly 
repayments but hasnt explained to this service what those checks were. It has however 
been able to confirm that Mrs B declared an income of £20,000 at the time of the loan 
application.
This loan was for a significant amount over a period of three years  and would have been a 
significant financial burden to most people. So I would have expected Shawbrook to do more 
to check that Mrs B could afford the loan repayments over a longer term. The checks a 
lender must do are not prescriptive, but I would have expected it to review Mrs Bs income, 
expenditure and past repayment history as a minimum. Shawbrook may have done this but it 
hasnt provided any evidence to this service - and I am only able to consider the information 
Ive been provided.So taking everything into account, Im not satisfied that Shawbrook carried out proportionate 
checks for this loan.
the lending
I dont think Shawbrook carried out the checks it should have done when Mrs B applied for 
this loan  but that doesnt automatically make the lending unaffordable. As I dont think 
Shawbrook carried out proportionate checks, I have then considered whether I think it would 
have lent to Mrs B if it had.
Mrs B told Shawbrook her income was £20,000  this would have given her a monthly 
income of around £1,400 - £1,500. And looking at her bank statements, I can see that for the 
three months leading up to the loan application, her monthly income was just under £2,000 
per month.
Ive then considered Mrs Bs outgoings and what regular payments Mrs B was making at the 
time. Regular payments are payments which Mrs B was committed to making every month. 
Mrs B had two existing loans with monthly repayments totalling around £240. She also 
applied for another loan the same day with monthly repayments of around £165. While I 
cant be certain whether this information would have been available to Shawbrook had it 
carried out the appropriate checks, I have taken it into consideration. So Mrs B had monthly 
loan repayments of £405.
Mrs B has also told this service that her monthly contribution towards bills is £300. And I can 
see that she had an overdraft which included a monthly fee of £15 and had monthly charges. 
I also would have expected Shawbrook to include a small amount of extra income to ensure 
that Mrs B was repaying some of the debt on her overdraft each month. So taking all of this 
into account, it seems that Mrs B had regular monthly expenditure of around £1,000.
The loan repayments here were around £200 and reviewing the figures above, I think these 
loan repayments would have left Mrs B with between £200 and £800 disposable income 
each month, depending on the income figure used. So I think, had Shawbrook carried out 
proportionate checks, its likely that it still would have lent to Mrs B.
Mrs B has said that, had Shawbrook checked her bank statements at the time she applied 
for this loan, she doesnt think it would have lent to her. But this was her only loan 
application with Shawbrook and Mrs B had a good repayment history with other lenders, so 
while I think it should have asked her for more information to check she could afford her 
monthly repayments, I dont think there was any reason for Shawbrook to ask for her bank 
statements.
Mrs B has explained to us that she was gambling significantly at the time of the loan 
application but there's no evidence she made Shawbrook aware of that at the time of the 
application and it's not a question I would expect a lender to ask every applicant as part of its 
credit and affordability checks. 
So overall, while I think Shawbrook should have asked more questions about Mrs B's 
income and expenditure to check the loan repayments were sustainable, I'm satisfied that 
had these checks been carried out it's likely Shawbrook would have considered the loan to 
be affordable. So for these reasons, I won't be asking Shawbrook to refund the interest on 
this loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman