DRN-2348661
The complaint
Mr L is complaining about Assurant General Insurance Limited. Hes unhappy with how they 
handled his claim for damage to the fabric of his sofas under his fabric protection plan.
What happened
In 2013 Mr L bought two sofas and a table and chairs set from a furniture shop. At the same 
time, he bought a five-year fabric protection plan from Assurant. This covered him for 
damage to the fabric on his sofas from the delivery date in August 2013.
Later that year, Mr L notified Assurant of some ink stains to his sofas. Assurant treated the 
stains and Mr L didnt make any further claims until October 2017.  That month, Mr L 
submitted a claim form detailing three stains  arising from food, play dough, and dye 
transfer from clothing. Again, Assurant treated the stains. 
In March 2018 Mr L called Assurant and told them that the stains from the dye transfer were 
still on the sofas. They sent him another claim form but didnt hear any more from Mr L until 
early June 2018 when he called them again. Mr L said hed sent the claim form in, but 
Assurant hadnt received it so he resent the form.
Later in June, Assurant declined Mr Ls claim. But after he complained they reviewed it, and, 
after some debate they said in late July that they would send a technician to treat the stains. 
An appointment was booked for late September. In mid-October, two weeks after the 
technicians visit, Mr L said the stains remained. 
Assurant sent another technician to look at the sofas in mid-November. This technician 
confirmed that the stains from the dye transfer were still on the sofas and would be very 
difficult to remove.   
In mid-December, Assurant wrote to Mr L. They told him the parts needed to repair his sofas 
were no longer available and instead he could choose between a reselection or a cash 
settlement. The reselection option was that he could choose other sofas from the same 
furniture shop, and Assurant would contribute £1,240.88. Alternatively, theyd pay him 
£620.44 in cash to settle the claim. Although he wasnt happy Mr L accepted the cash 
settlement figure and Assurant sent him a cheque on 7 May 2019.
Mr L complained. He wasnt happy with the options offered, or with the amount of the 
settlement. In their response, Assurant said that it wasnt cost effective for them to repair the 
sofas. And they said the amount theyd offered for reselection was the initial price of the 
sofas less the cost of previous claims under the same policy. 
Mr L brought his complaint to us. There were several aspects to his complaint. In brief, these 
are:
The documents he was provided with when he bought the policy dont state that the 
policy was indemnity cover or that it had a maximum liability
Assurant have calculated the reselection amount incorrectly
The sofas should have been repaired or replaced  the fact that it wasnt cost 
effective for Assurant to do so shouldnt be a factor
The settlement figures dont cover the cost of direct replacements
He wasnt consulted about the options, just sent a letter telling him to choose 
between reselection and cash settlement
The entire process has taken far longer than it should have and included 
unnecessary visits
Mr L said he wanted Assurant to compensate him for the difference between the cash 
settlement they paid him and the amount he paid for new sofas. And he wanted 
compensation for the amount of time the whole process had taken.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. Mr L didnt agree with his view so asked for 
an ombudsmans decision and it came to me. I issued my provisional decision on the matter 
on 15 October 2020. In my provisional decision I said I was minded to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint. I said I thought Assurant should pay him an additional £211.16 (plus interest at 
8%) in respect of the cash settlement figure, and £200 for the inconvenience and wasted 
time caused by the delays in resolving Mr Ls claim.
Assurant said they had no further comments. But Mr L wasnt happy with my provisional 
findings. Ive set out below in relation to each complaint point a summary of what I said in my 
provisional decision, Mr Ls further comments, and my view on those comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My outcome is unchanged from my provisional decision. Ill explain why  taking each of the 
complaint points separately.
The documents Mr L was provided with
In my provisional decision, I said I thought it was clear from the documents Mr L was 
provided with that there were further terms and conditions that Mr L needed to make himself 
aware of. And I also said I didnt think Assurant were relying on any term that isnt set out in 
the leaflet Mr L was provided with (the sales leaflet) so I didnt think this aspect of the 
complaint was particularly relevant to his claim. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr L agreed that it isnt relevant to the claim so Ive 
not considered this point further. Mr L also commented that neither the policy nor the sales 
leaflet make any reference to a 50% cash settlement offer. Ive considered this point further 
below.
Reselection amount
In my provisional decision, I said: 
Assurant have said that the reselection amount offered to Mr L is the invoice price of his 
sofas (£1,389.56) less the cost of previous claims (£148.68). Mr L is complaining that 
Assurant have got both aspects of the calculation wrong. 
I reviewed the written evidence of the invoice price together with Mr Ls testimony and said I 
was persuaded that the invoice price was £1,663.20.
Then I said: Mr L says that Assurant shouldnt have deducted the cost of previous claims at all. 
Assurant have explained that this is their usual process. They havent been able to show 
me anywhere in the policy documents which says that theyll deduct previous claims 
when calculating a settlement amount.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr Ls policy limits Assurants liability to the invoice price of his 
sofas, I dont think its clear whether this applies to each claim, or to the whole life of the 
policy. In addition, Assurant havent shown me that their liability would have exceeded the 
invoice price if they hadnt deducted Mr Ls previous claims. So I dont think they acted 
fairly in deducting the cost of the previous claims from the invoice price.
Taking all of this together, I intend to say the reselection offer should have been made at 
£1,663.20 instead of £1,240.88.
Mr L has accepted this aspect of my provisional decision and Assurant hasnt commented on 
it.
The sofas should have been repaired or replaced
In my provisional decision I said I could understand why Mr L expected Assurant to repair or 
replace his sofas. And I could see that hed been given inconsistent explanations as to why 
that wouldnt happen which was understandably frustrating. But, I said, I was inclined to 
accept Assurants explanation that neither replacement parts nor replacement sofas were 
available given the sofas were over 5 years old. 
And I said that the claims leaflet was clear that if replacements werent available, the likely 
outcome would be the option of reselection or a cash settlement. So, I said I thought 
Assurant had acted fairly in this respect  a repair wasnt possible and replacements werent 
available. 
Neither Mr L nor Assurant have commented on this aspect of my provisional decision.
The settlement figures dont cover the cost of direct replacements
In my provisional decision, I said I thought it was clear from the sales leaflet that the cover 
provided was limited to the invoice price of the furniture. Mr L has accepted that aspect. But, 
in his response to my provisional decision, Mr L said that the cash settlement offer should 
have covered the total invoice price of the sofas rather than 50%. 
In saying this, Mr L said that neither the policy nor the sales leaflet mentioned that the cash 
settlement would be limited to 50%. And he quoted the following from the policy:
if a repair cannot be achieved, we may choose to replace the damaged part and in the 
event of this not being possible, we may provide a replacement product(s) at our 
discretion
Any product(s) replacement (at our reasonable discretion) will be arranged by [our agent] 
and will be of a similar standard, specification and style as your original product(s)
Mr L said that replacement sofas of a similar standard would have cost more than the 
original invoice price, and that he therefore should have been offered at least the invoice 
price so that he could replace his sofas with similar ones.
Ive thought about what Mr Ls said, but I dont agree. The policy terms Mr L quotes refer to 
replacements arranged by Assurants agents, not replacements arranged by the policyholder 
 so I dont think theyre relevant. In my provisional decision, I said that it was fair for Assurant to offer Mr L 50% of the 
reselection amount and that its industry standard for a cash settlement offer to be around 
50% of a reselection offer. Thats because the insurer receives a discount from the retailer 
offering the reselection  so the cash settlement amount reflects the cost of the reselection 
to the insurer. 
The letter which explained the choice of reselection or cash settlement to Mr L says: Some 
people are happy to keep their furniture and we can offer you a cash settlement to live with 
the furniture in its current condition. Its clear from this that the intention of the cash 
settlement wasnt so that Mr L could replace his sofas. Instead it was effectively a payment 
to reflect the inconvenience of living with sofas that Assurant werent able to repair or 
replace. Im satisfied Assurant explained the cash settlement clearly to Mr L and he was able 
to make an informed choice.
Not consulted about options
Mr Ls complained that he wasnt consulted about the options and was simply sent a letter 
telling him about the choice between reselection and cash settlement. In my provisional 
decision I said:
The evidence Ive seen suggests that Assurant did try to call Mr L before they sent the 
letter. And the letter gave Mr L the option to call Assurant to discuss the options. In 
addition, I dont think anything would have been different if Assurant had discussed the 
options with Mr L before sending the letter  as Ive explained above they couldnt repair 
or replace Mr Ls sofas. So I think Assurant did enough when they contacted Mr L about 
resolving his claim.
Neither Mr L nor Assurant have commented on this aspect of my provisional decision.
Overall time taken
In my provisional decision I said Mr L had first reported the stains in October 2017 and the 
final resolution was effectively made in December 2018. I said that I thought it was a more 
complex case than anticipated by the claims leaflet so Id consider the timeline as a whole. I 
said I didnt think Assurant should be held responsible for any delays prior to June 2018 and 
Mr L agreed with this in his reply. 
Then I said:
I can see that some of the delays during August and September 2018 were also caused 
by Mr L so Im also not inclined to hold Assurant responsible for the whole of the six 
month period between June and December 2018. 
But Assurant initially declined Mr Ls claim in June 2018 and then in late July admitted 
they shouldnt have declined it. This caused a delay of several weeks. And I think they 
should have been able to settle the claim at the beginning of November  by this time Mr 
Ls sofas had been cleaned twice but Assurant could see from the photos and the 
technicians reports that the cleaning had been unsuccessful and that a further clean was 
likely to have the same result. 
On balance, Id say Assurant were responsible for delays of about three months. And I 
think the technicians visit in early November was unnecessary given the information 
Assurant already had. I think Assurant should compensate Mr L for the inconvenience 
caused by the unnecessary visit and the delays.  Mr Ls said he had to take time off to allow the unnecessary visit. And hes said he felt the 
sofas were unusable for several months. Its clear he also had to put in additional time 
and effort as a result of the delays and the June claim being declined. Im inclined to say 
Assurant need to pay Mr L £200 to compensate him for all of this.
Mr L wasnt happy with these comments. He said he didnt agree that any delays during 
August and September 2018 were down to him. However, the information provided by 
Assurant shows that when Mr L was offered an appointment in early August he refused it. 
Im satisfied he contributed to these delays.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said:
As Ive explained above, Im minded to uphold Mr Ls complaint about Assurant General 
Insurance Limited in part. I think they should pay him an additional £211.16 (plus interest at 
8%) in respect of the cash settlement figure, and £200 for the inconvenience and wasted 
time caused by the time taken to resolve Mr Ls claim.
In reply, Mr L said that the time hes had to spend on calls and emails to resolve this matter 
should be considered in arriving at the total amount of compensation. And he said he had to 
take half a day off work for each appointment and told me his daily rate for work. As Ive said 
above, I do think one of the appointments was unnecessary. I took this into account when I 
came to the figure of £200 in my provisional decision. I appreciate that the figure doesnt 
reflect half a day of Mr Ls pay but Im satisfied Mr L could have made alternative 
arrangements for the appointment to avoid the loss of pay. And I expect he used the half day 
off work for other purposes as well as for the appointment.
I appreciate that overall Mr Ls had to spend a significant amount of time on the matter, but 
that would have been the case even if the cleaning had been successful and Mr L didnt 
have any cause for complaint. I only have to consider the impact of what Assurant got 
wrong. Beyond the disappointment of being offered the wrong reselection amount, Im 
satisfied this was limited to one unnecessary visit and a small amount of correspondence 
and phone calls. Im satisfied that £200 is a fair amount to compensate Mr L for this 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Assurant General Insurance 
Limited need to pay him an additional £211.16 in respect of the cash settlement figure, and 
simple interest at 8% from 7 May 2019 to the date of settlement. And they need to pay Mr L 
£200 compensation for the inconvenience theyve caused him. 
If Assurant General Insurance Limited considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr L how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman