DRN-2820163
The complaint
Mrs Gs complaint is being brought on her behalf by a company - who Ill refer to as 
company C. They complain that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) lent to Mrs G 
irresponsibly. Company C say Mrs G wants the balance outstanding on the account to be 
written off.  
  
What happened
Mrs G was accepted for a credit card by Sainsburys in October 2014 with a limit of £1,000. 
The following credit limit changes were applied to her account:  
July 2015 March 2016 November 2016 November 2017 June 2018
£1,400 £1,800 £2,400 £1,200 £1,600
Payments were made by Mrs G up until November 2018. The account then defaulted in 
February 2019 and no further payments were received until June 2019. Company C 
complained about Sainsburys decision to lend to Mrs G and requested documentation. 
There was further exchange in correspondence between company C and Sainsburys during 
which Sainsburys paid a total of £80 compensation for delays in responding and providing 
information to company C. Sainsburys didnt uphold the complaint about their decision to 
lend.       
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs G. Sainsburys told us they were satisfied the 
appropriate checks were met when Mrs G applied for the account. And, Mrs G maintained 
the required payments since the account opened in October 2014 until November 2018, 
which confirms she had the means of making payment up to this time and contradicts the 
claims made that she was unable to manage payments at the time of application. 
Sainsburys said, any fees and interest applied to the account have been in line with the 
terms and conditions which Mrs G agreed to in the signed credit agreement. They stopped 
charging any fees and interest when the account defaulted, to stop the balance increasing 
and allowing any payments received to reduce the balance. Sainsburys said they wont be 
writing off the outstanding balance. They said, Mrs G hasnt made payment towards the 
account since July 2019 and they advised her to contact their Recoveries team to discuss an 
affordable repayment plan.   
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs 
G and Sainsburys on 14 April 2021. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website. 
Sainsburys needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate 
checks to make sure that Mrs G could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and 
expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Sainsburys carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in 
place at the time, outline that the assessment that Sainsburys needed to complete 
shouldve been dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including 
the amount and cost of the credit and the consumers borrowing history.
 
CONC also provides guidance on the sources of information Sainsburys may have 
wanted to consider as part of making a proportionate assessment. It then gives 
examples of factors a firm must consider and refers to whether the information the 
firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional information from the customer 
and any other sources of information to use.   
    
Account opening 
Sainsburys is free to decide how to set its lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. I can see weve asked 
Sainsburys for evidence of the information they took into consideration when 
opening Mrs Gs account and also when applying the credit limit increases. 
Sainsburys say they no longer hold these records so arent able to provide any 
information. Sainsburys do say when a customer applies for a credit card, they carry 
out appropriate checks to ensure the product is appropriate for the customer. They 
say the decision is based on the information supplied by the customer and what they 
obtain from the Credit Reference Agencies (CRA). They say they were satisfied the 
appropriate checks were met when Mrs G applied for the account.  
The agreement signed by Mrs G when opening the account shows her gross annual 
income as £21,000. Given that this is noted on the agreement, I think this is 
information Sainsburys will have taken into account. Theres no other evidence 
which shows what other information Sainsburys obtained from Mrs G, such as 
details of her monthly expenditure. They do say they take into account information 
provided by CRAs. 
I havent been provided with any evidence of what information Sainsburys asked for 
from the CRAs and what the results of those searches were. I cant therefore say in 
this case whether those checks were reasonable and proportionate. So, Ive looked 
at what information I would expect Sainsburys to have obtained to get a full 
understanding of Mrs Gs financial circumstances. 
I believe it would be reasonable and proportionate for Sainsburys to take into 
account Mrs Gs total secured/unsecured borrowing. And, how Mrs G was performing 
against other accounts and, in particular, whether there were any late payment 
markers or missed payments and whether any accounts were in default. 
Sainsburys say, when they look to increase a credit limit, they take into account 
whether a customer has incurred any late fees or over limit fees on their Sainsburys 
account. 
So, I feel its reasonable to expect Sainsburys to have taken similar information into 
account  albeit in relation to accounts with other lenders - when opening Mrs Gs 
account. So, Ive looked at Mrs Gs credit file to see what the result of those searches 
wouldve been. The Sainsburys account was opened in October 2014. At this point, Mrs G had six 
open accounts; three are credit/store card accounts, one mortgage account, one mail 
order account and one mobile supplier account. So, the next point Ive considered is, 
had these checks been carried out, whether they wouldve shown that Mrs G was 
more likely than not able to sustainably repay the credit. And, being able to 
sustainably repay credit is described as doing so without undue difficulty, while being 
able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further. Ive looked at 
Mrs Gs credit file to see how she was performing against these accounts with other 
lenders at the time Sainsburys opened the account. The information on the credit file 
doesnt show any defaults on any of these accounts at the point the account is 
opened.
 
Its not clear from the credit file what her total borrowing was, but nothing I have seen 
suggests there was any adverse information at this point. So, in view of the 
information from the CRAs, Mrs Gs income and the level of borrowing, I dont think 
Sainsburys made an unfair decision to lend.  
  
Credit limit increases 
I can see weve asked Sainsburys to provide information showing what checks they 
carried out when applying the credit limit increases. Sainsburys say they no longer 
hold these records but they have provided details of the process they follow when 
deciding whether to apply a credit limit increase. Sainsburys have sent a screenshot 
of a decision tree which shows an increase/decrease can be applied in one of two 
ways; a customer can ask for it, or Sainsburys can apply an automated change. The 
decision tree sets out the options available to a consumer in how they want the credit 
limit increase to be carried out. The options are: 
Customer must accept the offer  this will not be applied automatically
Offer is automatically applied after 39 days (unless the customer declines or 
accepts the offer early)
Customer doesnt want to be considered for an automatic increase
In the case of an automatic decrease, there is no customer action required and 
the decision cannot be overridden by telephony. If the customer is disputing a 
limit decrease this must be submitted in writing.  
The decision tree describes the actions required in order for a credit limit increase to 
apply. It says, to increase a limit, a customer needs to have held a Sainsburys credit 
card for at least six months. And, the account should not have had any late fees, over 
limit fees or credit limit changes in the six months prior to the request. It says the 
system will generate a letter letting a customer know they are eligible for an increase 
and the new limit. It says, if the customer has chosen to have the limit automatically 
applied then the increase will take effect 39 days from the date of the letter if the 
customer doesnt call to accept or decline it. 
Sainsburys say, when they make a decision to increase a credit limit, a customer 
always has the option to decline it. 
They say, their systems review accounts regularly and if an account has been well 
managed and they dont receive any adverse information from the CRAs to make 
them aware of any external issues, then they may increase the credit limit.   
      
Sainsburys say Mrs G maintained the required payments since the account opened 
until November 2018. They say this shows she had the means to manage her account. Ive looked at how Mrs G was handling her account. The credit limit 
increases were made between July 2015 to June 2018. I can see in the early part of 
this period regular payments were made with no late fees or over limit fees being 
charged. 
Mrs Gs credit card statement for March 2016 shows available credit of £137.10 
against the credit limit of £1,400. The minimum payment required is £28.41 with a 
payment required date of 29 March. Mrs Gs April 2016 statement shows the credit 
limit has increased to £1,800 but Sainsburys have charged a late fee as no payment 
was received in March. Mrs Gs August statement shows the minimum payment 
required is £13.34 with a payment required date of 26 August. The September 
statement shows a late fee charge as no payment was received in August. 
The July 2017 statement shows Mrs G went over her credit limit by £36.52 so shes 
charged an over limit fee. The August statement shows Mrs G went over her credit 
limit by £94.42 so shes charged an over limit fee and a late fee for not paying the 
minimum payment due in July. The October statement shows Mrs G was charged a 
late fee for not making her minimum payment by the required date. 
The July 2018 statement shows the credit limit increased to £1,600 and theres a late 
fee as no payment was received in June. The October statement shows Mrs G went 
over her credit limit so shes charged an over limit fee. The November statement 
shows Mrs G went over her credit limit and didnt make a payment the month before. 
So, shes charged an over limit fee and late fee. The same happens in December, 
January 2019 and February. And, in March Mrs G is charged an over limit fee.   
When looking at the credit limit increases  and reasonable and proportionate 
checks, Ive applied the same considerations as I did when I looked at the account 
opening. Sainsburys say they take into account whether theres any adverse 
information from CRAs. Ive looked at the information reported to the CRAs which I 
think Sainsburys shouldve taken into account  in order for the checks to be 
reasonable and proportionate - for the first increase in July 2015. This shows a 
number of active accounts open at the time the limit is increased but no defaults on 
any of the accounts. Looking at Mrs Gs Sainsburys statements, I cant see there 
were any late or missed payments, or that she went over her credit limit. So, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Sainsburys to increase the limit to £1,400.  
       
Applying the same considerations to the later increases, I believe this shouldve 
highlighted to Sainsburys there were problems with Mrs Gs financial situation. 
Sainsburys decision tree says they look to see whether an account is well managed 
and also the account should not have had any late fees, over limit fees or credit limit 
changes in the six months prior. Mrs Gs Sainsburys account statement shows she 
was charged a late fee for missing her payment in March 2016. Despite this, 
Sainsburys increased her limit the following month. And, this goes against their 
decision tree criteria as Mrs G has been charged a late fee within six months of the 
increase. 
The same applies for the December 2016 credit limit increase. The statements show 
Mrs G was charged a late fee four months prior for missing a payment. This again 
goes against the terms of their decision tree criteria. Following this credit limit 
increase, theres further charges applied to Mrs G account. This time, theres two 
occasions shes charged a late fee and two occasions shes charged an over limit 
fee. Looking at the information reported to the CRAs, Mrs G, at the point the credit limit 
increase was applied in April 2016, had 12 open accounts with other lenders. There 
was one mail order account, eight credit/store accounts, one mobile supplier account, 
one mortgage account and one unsecured loan. Its important to note here, a number 
of these accounts were credit/store accounts which had been open for over 12 
months. And, in December 2016, this had increased to 14 open accounts. 
Theres no evidence of the checks Sainsburys carried out but I think reasonable and 
proportionate checks should take the above information into account. And, had 
Sainsburys done so, I wouldve expected them to look into this further and raise 
queries about Mrs Gs financial situation. As mentioned, I cant say whether 
Sainsburys did raise further questions, but I think the combination of the open 
accounts and late fees and over limit fees show Mrs G was struggling financially and 
wouldnt be able to repay the extra credit in a sustainable manner. So, I think 
Sainsburys decision to increase Mrs G credit limit in April and December 2016 was 
unreasonable.    
Mrs G appears to have made a significant payment to clear most of her balance and 
the credit limit is reduced to £1,200. Sainsburys dont have a record to show why the 
limit was reduced but they believe it was on Mrs Gs request. This though leads me 
to the next point, which is the further credit limit increase in June 2018  seven 
months after the limit was decreased. At this point, Sainsburys would clearly have 
been aware Mrs G had financial problems. I say this for the reasons Ive set out 
relating to the June and December credit limit increases. In addition to this, Mrs G 
had 19 open accounts with other lenders. And, while I cant see there were any 
defaults registered against any of these accounts at the time, it shouldve been clear 
that Mrs G was increasingly reliant on short term borrowing. 
What further persuades me that Sainsburys have acted unreasonably is that seven 
months earlier Mrs G had asked them to decrease the credit limit. And, I believe this 
was due to there being problems with her financial situation. The information from the 
CRAs wouldve shown that position hadnt changed much when it came to applying 
the increase in June 2018. So, I think Sainsburys have acted unreasonably in 
applying this credit limit increase, as well as the previous two. And, they should 
refund any interest and charges from April 2016.    
  
I can see from October 2018 Mrs G finds herself in a position where she cant keep 
up her repayments to Sainsburys. And, shes charged late fees and over limit fees. 
Its not clear what the change in circumstances was and whether Sainsburys was a 
cause of this, but the fact remains that, at this point, Mrs G was over her increased 
credit limit with Sainsburys - a limit which, for the reasons set out above, I feel 
shouldnt have been in place. So, I think its reasonable for Sainsburys to pay 
compensation of £100 to reflect the trouble and upset to Mrs G.     
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs G or Sainsburys, my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint. 
Mrs G or company C havent responded to my provisional decision. Sainsburys have replied 
to say Mrs Gs application disclosed she was working full-time and was earning £21,000  
and also disclosed £11,000 as other household income. They say Mrs Gs unsecured debt 
was £900. They say the credit limit increase from £1,400 to £1,800 occurred on 10 March 
2016, which was prior to the missed payment for Marchs statement. They say the credit limit 
increase took into account CRA data which showed Mrs Gs unsecured debt had increased 
to £28,000 but it was being serviced and well maintained.   Sainsburys say the increase to £2,400 occurred in November 2016. They agree Mrs G 
missed a payment in August and a late fee charged in September. But they say Mrs G had 
made a payment for the account balance to Mays statement and this would be viewed 
favourably in their assessment. They say stable levels of debt and the absence of any 
adverse markers didnt suggest any risk factors. They say its not uncommon for customers 
to miss the occasional payment or go over limit from time to time due to oversights rather 
than financial difficulty.   
I can see Sainsburys have commented on what happened with Mrs Gs account in 2017. 
They say Mrs Gs account was brought within limit with the required payment at the 
beginning of August and the payment in September was one day late. They say a payment 
was then made to clear the full balance. 
In relation to the 2018 increase, Sainsburys say Mrs Gs unsecured debt reduced to 
£21,000 which indicates steady repayment. They say her internal and external repayment 
record showed payments were being maintained on all debts. They say it was in the months 
immediately after this that she drew down on the card by an additional £500. 
Sainsburys also say the decision tree they have provided relates to their current process. 
But they had different eligibility in place when the credit limit increases were applied to Mrs 
Gs account. They say they would still have gone through a thorough creditworthiness 
assessment. And, they feel its not accurate to assess the current criteria  including the 
requirement to have no missed payments or over limit status  against the limit increases in 
this case. 
Sainsburys say removing any record of adverse information, including the default, would risk 
a breach of their duty to support responsible lending since Mrs G did have payment 
difficulties. They say other lenders should be aware of this. They say Mrs G is entitled to add 
a Notice of Correction to her credit file. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above.
I have carefully considered Sainsburys comments but Im not persuaded this shows they 
have lent responsibility. It appears the credit limit increase to £1,800 preceded the non-
payment in March 2016 so I cant take into account the missed payment which then 
generated a late payment fee. But, I believe Sainsburys have still acted unreasonably by 
increasing the limit in March 2016. I say this for two reasons. Firstly, Sainsburys say they 
take into account information received from CRAs. This shows that, from the time the 
Sainsburys account was opened, Mrs G had doubled the accounts she held with other 
lenders - with the majority of the open accounts being credit/store accounts. 
And secondly, Mrs Gs unsecured debt had increased from £900 to £28,000 in the same 
period. While Sainsburys say this was being serviced, I believe Sainsburys should have 
looked beyond that factor and probed further into Mrs Gs financial position. I think this 
wouldve shown an increasing level of reliance on short-term borrowing. And, its not too long 
after, that problems arise for Mrs G with her missing the payment in March. So, while I 
accept Mrs Gs credit file doesnt show any defaults or otherwise adverse information 
relating to payments for this period, its clear from the increase in the number of accounts 
and the significant increase in the sum total of the unsecured borrowing that the repayment 
of any additional credit would be unsustainable.  In relation to the November 2016 increase, I do take on board Sainsburys points. While 
oversights might occur in relation to payment, I havent seen any evidence which suggests 
that was the case here. By this point, there has been two missed payments which have 
generated charges. Its also important to note that Mrs G, while still holding the same 
accounts with other lenders, has opened two further credit card accounts since the last credit 
limit increase. I think this again shows increasing levels of reliance on additional borrowing to 
make ends meet. So, I believe, on the balance of probabilities, the missed payments in 
March and August were, more likely than not, down to financial difficulties and unsustainable 
repayment rather than an oversight in payment. 
At the point Sainsburys increase the limit in June 2018, they will have been fully aware of 
the history of Mrs Gs performance against the account. And, this shows charges for late 
payments and going over limit. Sainsburys will also have been aware that only seven 
months earlier, Mrs G had requested her limit be reduced  and this was brought down by 
50%. So, while I have taken into account Sainsburys comments about Mrs Gs external 
repayment record, I dont agree her internal repayment record showed it was an account 
which was well maintained. In addition to this, Mrs G had opened five further accounts with 
other lenders, since the previous increase, which shows she was becoming increasingly 
more reliant on borrowing.   
I have taken into account Sainsburys comment about the decision tree not applying in this 
case. So, I havent measured Sainsburys actions against the decision tree. I have however 
considered other material information which I think shows Mrs G wouldnt have been in a 
position to repay any additional borrowing in a sustainable manner. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Sainsburys lent irresponsibly to Mrs G when they increased her 
credit limit on all occasions from March 2016. I therefore consider this is irresponsible 
lending and Sainsburys should put this right by refunding any interest and charges. Ive also 
taken the view that Sainsburys should pay compensation of £100 for trouble and upset 
caused to Mrs G by increasing her credit limits.  
Mrs Gs credit file shows a default has been registered against her Sainsburys account. I 
understand Sainsburys point about a credit file showing a true account of a customers 
payment history. Ive decided there came a point in March 2016 where Sainsburys 
shouldve realised that any further lending was clearly unsustainable. So, Sainsburys should 
take steps to record a query against the missed payments on Mrs Gs credit file from March 
2016.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Sainsburys Bank Plc must:
Refund the interest and any charges incurred as a result of the credit card limits 
being increased from March 2016; 
Pay simple interest on this amount at the rate of 8% a year; 
Record a query as described on Mrs Gs credit file. Mrs G can also place a Notice of 
Correction on her file noting how the situation arose which led to the account not 
being paid on time; and 
Pay compensation to Mrs G in the sum of £100 for the trouble and upset caused.* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sainsburys Bank Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Sainsburys Bank Plc must give Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman