DRN-4135587
The complaint
Mr S complains that Ageas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor repairs in response to 
his claim on a motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a small hybrid car, first registered in 
2018.
Mr S has had the car since at least February 2019 (the date of its most recent V5).
For the year from early March 2021, Mr S had the car insured on a comprehensive policy. 
The policy was branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. 
Ageas was the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with any claim. Any 
claim for damage (except to a windscreen) was subject to a compulsory excess and a 
voluntary excess totalling £550.00.
Unfortunately, in late January 2022, Mr S reported to Ageas that his car had hit a third 
partys vehicle, causing damage to the front and offside of his car (and to the other car). 
Ageas arranged repair of his car.
Much of the complaint concerns the acts or omissions of the repairers. As I hold Ageas 
responsible for them, I may refer to them as acts or omissions of Ageas.
From late February 2022, Mr S complained to Ageas that the repairs were unsatisfactory. 
By a final response dated early May 2022, Ageas upheld Mr Ss complaint, made proposals 
for further work and said it was sending him a cheque for £500.00.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator recommended that the complaint should 
be upheld and made recommendations with which Mr S and Ageas agreed. So Ageas 
arranged further rectification work and inspection. 
Mr S complained that the repairs were still unsatisfactory.
By a final response dated 9 November 2022, Ageas said that the repairs were of a 
commercially acceptable standard.
Mr S brought his complaint to us in mid-November 2022.
Ageas didnt cooperate with our investigation by providing its file.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
photographs showed that there remained misalignment and there were imperfections in the 
valeting process. He thought that Mr S had been caused considerable distress.
The investigator recommended that Ageas should:
1. arrange for the car to be inspected again at a garage of Mr Ss choosing (but also 
acceptable to Ageas) with a report being sent to both Mr S and Ageas; and
2. pay for repair of any outstanding faults identified by the independent garage; and
3. a full valet should be undertaken of both the exterior and interior of the vehicle; and
4. pay Mr S compensation of £100.00 in respect of the trouble and upset hed been 
caused.
Ageas belatedly provided us with its file.
Our investigator changed his opinion. He still recommended that the complaint should be 
upheld in part. He thought that the right front wing / bumper arch liner wasnt fitted correctly. 
He recommended that Ageas should:
1. arrange for the issue relating to the right front wing / bumper arch liner not being 
fitted correctly to be corrected by its approved repairer; and
2. If required, supply Mr S with a courtesy car whilst the repairs are being carried out; 
and
3. pay Mr S £100.00 for the continuing distress and inconvenience hes suffered.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators changed opinion. He says, in summary, that:
Ageas should correct all faults, not only the wheel arch liner.
Ageas didnt respond to the investigators opinion.
So the investigator asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss list of outstanding faults is as follows:
1. Right front wing / bumper arch liner not clipped in correctly
2. Right front bumper to wing gap not within specification
3. Centre foam dam missing from scuttle trim
4. Boot not clean after valet
5. Scratch on right rear bumper end
6. Scratch on right front wing
7. Clicking noise when turning the steering wheel
Mr S is of course familiar with his car. 
However, I place more weight on the most recent reports of the independent engineers in 
mid- September 2022 and early November 2022.
The latter commented (using the same numbering) along the following lines:1. Justified.
2. The gap is commercially acceptable for this make and model. 
3. The area the owner pointed to does not appear to have had a foam dam  
however further research would be required to confirm
4. The owner took images before he cleaned this himself.
5. Unable to advise when during repairs  if at all  this may have occurred
6. Unable to advise when during repairs  if at all  this may have occurred
7. Requires further investigation.
My findings (using the same numbering) are as follows:
1. As the engineer said the point was justified, I consider it fair and reasonable to 
direct Ageas to arrange for its approved repairer to contact Mr S to book his car 
in to correct the fitting of the right front wing / bumper arch liner. Also, Ageas 
should supply Mr S with a courtesy car, if he so requires, upon Mr S delivering his 
car to the repairer in line with that booking until the date on which Ageas 
considers that the fitting of the liner is correct. 
2. Whilst Mr S will remain unhappy about the gap, I accept the engineers opinion 
that it is acceptable.
3. Mr S first raised this point in early November 2022. I dont consider that he has 
shown enough evidence that Ageas is responsible for a missing foam dam.
4. Whilst I accept that Mr S cleaned up a stain, I dont find that this makes it fair and 
reasonable to direct Ageas to do another valet.
5. Mr S had the use of the car in autumn 2022. He first raised this point in early 
November 2022. As a scratch couldve been caused in a number of ways, I dont 
consider that Mr S has shown enough evidence that Ageas is responsible for a 
scratch on the rear bumper.
6. Mr S had the use of the car in autumn 2022. He first raised this point in early 
November 2022. As a scratch couldve been caused in a number of ways, I dont 
consider that Mr S has shown enough evidence that Ageas is responsible for a 
scratch on the right front wing.
7. I havent seen enough evidence to show that the accident or the repairs involved 
steering components. He first raised this point in early November 2022. I dont 
consider that Mr S has shown enough evidence that Ageas is responsible for a 
noise from the steering.
I keep in mind the earlier distress and inconvenience and the payment of £500.00 
compensation in May 2022. Having upheld the complaint about the liner, I accept that Ageas 
is responsible for that issue causing Mr S some further unnecessary inconvenience and 
upset. I conclude that £100.00 is fair and reasonable in line with our published guidance on 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
I consider it fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to arrange for its approved repairer to 
contact Mr S to book his car in to correct the fitting of the right front wing / bumper arch liner. 
Also, Ageas should supply Mr S with a courtesy car, if he so requires, upon Mr S delivering 
his car to the repairer in line with that booking until the date on which Ageas considers that the fitting of the liner is correct.
And I conclude that £100.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to:
1. arrange for its approved repairer to contact Mr S to book his car in to correct the 
fitting of the right front wing / bumper arch liner; and
2. supply Mr S with a courtesy car, if he so requires, upon Mr S delivering his car to 
the repairer in line with that booking until the date on which Ageas considers that 
the fitting of the liner is correct; and 
3. pay Mr S £100.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman