DRN-4011250
The complaint
Miss G complains that Marsh Finance & Commercial Ltd (Marsh) irresponsibly granted her 
a hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2019, Miss G acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Marsh. Miss G was required to make 48 monthly repayments of £258.48, with a final optional 
balloon payment of £3,987 if she wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. The 
total repayable under the agreement was £16,394.04.
Miss G says that Marsh didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable as she had a large amount of debt. Marsh 
didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included checking her 
income to see if she could meet the monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Marsh didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss G didnt agree and said Marsh didnt look into her financial situation properly and failed 
to help when her personal circumstances changed and she got into difficulty with meeting 
the payments under the agreement. 
The case has therefore been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Marsh will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Ive seen that Marsh took steps to verify Miss Gs income when she made her application by 
obtaining a copy of a recent payslip. This showed she was receiving a net monthly income of 
around £1,500. There appears to have been a misunderstanding about Miss Gs occupation 
but ultimately this didnt have an impact on the checks Marsh carried out at the time. 
Marsh didnt ask Miss G about her living costs and monthly expenditure, although it says it 
checked to see if the monthly payments would be affordable. But without knowing what her 
regular committed expenditure was, I dont think Marsh would have got a good enough 
understanding of Miss Gs financial circumstances and therefore whether the agreement was 
likely to be affordable for her or not. I consider this was important given that Miss G taking on 
a four year commitment to make regular monthly payments was a significant step. So I think 
Marsh could have done more to get to the point where it had properly completed 
proportionate checks. 
I cant be certain what Miss G would have told Marsh had it asked Miss G about her regular 
expenditure. I dont think Marsh needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of 
anything else, Ive placed significant weight on the information contained in her statements 
as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed the various bank statements Miss G has sent us. They show that, although 
Miss G was occasionally making short-term use of her overdraft, her bank accounts 
generally remained in credit. Broadly speaking, I agree with our adjudicator that Miss G likely 
had around £800-900 in regular monthly costs and committed expenditure. In calculating this 
figure, Ive included food, insurance, bills and the credit commitments Ive seen she was 
paying. I can also see confirmation of the fact she was receiving a monthly income of 
£1,500. Taking everything Ive seen into account, I therefore think the agreement was 
affordable to Miss G. It follows that, Im not persuaded that Marsh acted unfairly in approving 
the finance. 
Miss G also says she felt pressured into taking out the agreement. In making these findings, 
I am looking at the actions of Marsh in providing Miss G with the finance. If Miss G wishes to 
make a complaint about how the car was sold to her by the dealer, that would be a separate 
complaint that she will first need to make to the dealer. In relation to Marsh, Ive seen a copy 
of the call script from when Marsh contacted Miss G to go through the agreement with her. I 
note in particular that Miss G confirmed that shed signed the credit agreement documents at 
the dealers premises and that she was given enough time to read through the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. She also confirmed that shed been made aware of the 
implications of entering into the agreement. I should also mention, as I see this is something 
Miss G has also raised in her complaint, that she confirmed she understood about being 
able to return the car at the end of the agreement or instead to make a balloon payment if 
she wanted to keep it. I therefore think its likely that Miss G was or ought to have been 
aware of how the agreement worked at the time she entered into it, having had the 
opportunity to consider it first. 
Miss G has also told us she feels Marsh failed to help her when she began having problems 
meeting her monthly payments. She says she contacted Marsh on numerous occasions.  
Ive listened to a phone call she had with Marsh in August 2019 when she asked about 
making reduced payments as shed been in hospital. Marsh asked her to send through 
evidence of her being in hospital but it wasnt sent at the time. Other than that, I havent seen 
anything else suggesting that Marsh didnt take steps to respond to Miss Gs payment 
difficulties.  
Lastly, I am very sorry to learn of the difficult circumstances that have made meeting the 
payments due under the agreement difficult for Miss G. Ive seen that she was again in 
contact with Marsh in October 2022 about arranging a payment plan. I would expect Marsh 
to continue to exercise appropriate forbearance and take steps to explore all available 
options with Miss G in relation to her agreement. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman