DRN-2828889
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle).  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I agree with the investigator that Mr S should be allowed to reject the car I dont
currently agree with the redress she suggested. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Oodle, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.  
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here
was around eight years old and had completed about 97,809 miles. So, I think a reasonable
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would expect the gearbox to be failing intermittently.
The relevant legislation says that if a car fails within the first six months it is to be assumed
the fault was present from the beginning unless the business can demonstrate otherwise.
Here, I am persuaded there has most probably been an intermittent fault with the gearbox
that was likely to have been present or developing at the point of supply. Ill explain why.
Oodles system notes show Mr S reported a gearbox problem to them in June 2019. The
record explains Mr S had received a dashboard message saying, gearbox fault service
immediately.
The garage Mr S then took his car to in June 2019 identified there was a stored fault code
relating to a slipping clutch (the car has an automatic gearbox with an electronic clutch
actuator). They didnt carry out any work to rectify the problem as they werent able to
replicate it. The car was taken to the supplying dealership.
The supplying dealership noted that no fault codes were present for the gearbox and didnt
identify any faults on a test drive. I think, given that Mr S had reported a gearbox dashboard
message and that the previous garage had cleared some gearbox related fault codes, there
should have a more thorough investigation into this issue.
In May 2020, after some delay because of pandemic restrictions, the car was inspected by
an independent engineer. At that point Mr S had completed about 8,000 miles in the vehicle.
The expert engineer said:
We attempted to select drive and can confirm that the transmission will immediately
reselect neutral. Although the gear position can be moved to drive, the transmission will not
physically select any gear and there is a clear fault in relation to the vehicles automatic
transmission and the most probable cause for the condition may be due to a defective
clutch actuator.
He went on to say:
Although considerable time and mileage have elapsed since the point of finance inception,
these are faults which have been previously brought to the attention of the selling agent
and a previous repair has reportedly been attempted in relation to this, although it cannot
be proven whether or not this repair was indeed attempted, as reported. We believe that no
repair may have even been made.
The engineer concluded:
On the balance of probability, we therefore consider the fault would have been developing
at the point of finance inception and has not undergone successful repair.
I think the inspector has given due consideration to the fact that considerable time and
mileage has elapsed. Im persuaded by his expert opinion that the fault was, on balance,
present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr S. Whilst no work was completed by 
the supplying dealership I think its clear they were asked to look at a gearbox problem and
failed to identify or remedy it.
The relevant legislation allows the business one chance to repair a fault that was present or
developing at the point of supply. I think the business had that opportunity when the car was
referred to them in June 2019 and, as they failed to repair the car, they should now allow
Mr S to reject it.
Putting things right
Oodle should allow Mr S to reject the car and collect it at no cost to him.They should terminate his finance agreement with them and refund any deposit Mr S has
paid adding 8% interest as Mr S has been deprived of that money.
Theyll need to refund the cost of Mr Ss independent report (£240) and the diagnostic he
arranged in June 2019 (£123,) if they havent already done so, and on provision of the
receipts from Mr S. They should add 8% interest to those refunds as Mr S has been
deprived of that money.
I understand there were some costs associated with storage and that Oodle have already
paid these. But, for clarity, as Ive found the car has broken down because of a fault at the
point of supply, Oodle should pay, or refund, any storage charges Mr S has incurred on
provision of receipts from him.
Mr S has explained that hes not driven the car since 2 March 2020 when he needed to call
out breakdown services. I can see that breakdown services were called out again on 11
March 2020 and at that point the mileage on the car was higher. So, I think this is the point
Mr S has been unable to use his car from and Oodle should refund any payments Mr S has
made towards his finance agreement from this time. They should add interest to that refund
as Mr S has been deprived of that money.
Ive considered whether there is sufficient evidence to ask Oodle to refund any further
finance instalments for the period prior to March 2020. In March 2020 the RAC recorded
Mr Ss mileage as 107,892. So, hed been able to complete a little over 10,000 miles since
he took receipt of the car. This is more than average mileage and Im not therefore asking
Oodle to refund any further payments for lack of use as it seems Mr S had reasonable use of
the car until March 2020.
But he was clearly inconvenienced by the breakdowns he experienced in 2019 and by
subsequently having to pursue a claim through this service when I think Oodle could have
resolved things earlier for him. In those circumstances I would agree with the investigator
that Oodle should pay him £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Oodle
Financial Services Limited to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date
of settlement;
refund the cost of the independent report (£240) and the diagnostic report (£123) if
they havent already done so and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement;
pay any storage costs Mr S has been asked to pay in relation to this issue unless
they have already done so;
pay Mr S £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
refund any finance instalments paid from 11 March 2020 and add 8% simple interest
per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit file in relation to
this issue.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S accepted my provisional decision and Oodle didnt provide any further information. So, 
I havent had any reason to change my provisional decision and that now becomes my final 
decision on this complaint.  
Putting things right
Im therefore asking Oodle to provide the redress I had suggested in my provisional decision 
and which I set out again below. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Oodle Finance Services 
Limited to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr S;
refund any deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date
of settlement;
refund the cost of the independent report (£240) and the diagnostic report (£123) if
they havent already done so and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of
payment to the date of settlement;
pay any storage costs Mr S has been asked to pay in relation to this issue unless
they have already done so;
pay Mr S £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
refund any finance instalments paid from 11 March 2020 and add 8% simple interest
per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit file in relation to
this issue.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman