DRN-3456046
The complaint
Mr N complains about the advice given by The Pension Drawdown Company Limited (PDC) 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss. He says that he thinks he would be better off if he had not transferred out. 
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
On 21 March 2016 BSPS sent Mr N information about what he could receive if he were to 
take early retirement and retire immediately. This would be a full pension of £10,075.68 or a 
tax-free lump sum of £47,501.00 and a reduced pension of £7,125.24.
Mr N approached PDC in March 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs. I 
understand hed made an enquiry via its website as he was concerned about the DB scheme 
funding deficit and the plans of his employer to close, or sell, some of the operations and 
end their pension liability. 
In May 2016 PDC completed a fact-find in a telephone call to gather information about 
Mr Ns circumstances and objectives. This showed that:
Mr N was aged 55 and he was divorced with no dependents (he did have three adult 
children).
He had worked at Tata Steel for 33 years between 1977 to 2011.
He was presently employed, and his earnings of around £1,000 a month after tax 
covered his outgoings.
He owned his own home and had taken a modest loan from a family member. But he 
had no other savings, investments or credit. 
In respect of his pension benefits: 
In April 2016 Mr N received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from the BSPS. Hed 
accrued just over 33 years service in the BSPS and the pension had a transfer value of 
£232,629.20. This gave him an annual pension at the date of leaving (in 2011) of £17,267.11 
and this had been indexed to the current time to £19,512.36. 
PDC also carried out an assessment of Mr Ns attitude to risk. It said that The answers to 
your questions throughout the risk profiler show you are willing to take investment risk with 
the pension fund to achieve your longer term objectives. It said the answers showed that 
Mr N should have a tolerance to risk of 8 out of 10, with 1 being the lowest and 10 the 
highest risk. But it was agreed that a balanced attitude to risk was appropriate for this 
transfer. 
On 5 May 2016, PDC advised Mr N to transfer his pension benefits into a personal pension 
and invest the proceeds in a range of investments that matched his balanced attitude to risk. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
Mr N wanted to transfer his BSPS pension benefits into a personal pension that could 
provide him with a drawdown facility.
He wanted to access the tax-free-cash to repay a modest debt to his brother and 
have an emergency fund of £27,000.
He wanted control of his pension and to minimize income tax.
He wanted his children to inherit the plan upon his death.
Mr N complained in March 2021 to the Financial Ombudsman Service about the suitability of 
the transfer. He initially said that he thought he would have been better off staying in the DB 
scheme. Later that month PDC contacted Mr N about the correspondence it had received 
from the Financial Ombudsman Service. It asked Mr N for some further information to help it 
consider his complaint. Mr N provided this shortly afterwards.
PDC didnt initially acknowledge that what Mr N had said was a complaint, but it did provide 
information about why it thought that Mr N was better off due to the transfer. It didnt refer 
Mr N to the Financial Ombudsman Service if he disagreed with this. Mr N then said that he 
would withdraw his complaint.  
Mr N didnt feel able to pursue his complaint straightaway after this. But he contacted the 
Financial Ombudsman Service again in January 2022 to request that we consider the 
complaint. And we began to look at it. 
An Investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that PDC pay compensation. She 
said that the transfer was likely to lead to Mr N receiving lower retirement benefits and so it 
wasnt suitable for him. She said that he should have been advised to stay in his DB scheme 
and take his benefits at the schemes normal retirement date. 
PDC disagreed, and in a letter dated 27 April 2022 its representative at the time provided 
detailed reasons why this was. This letter concluded that Mr N had made an informed 
decision to proceed with the transfer and was content to do so at the time. PDC had met all 
of its regulatory responsibilities and it was satisfied the advice was suitable for Mr N.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision. There was some further correspondence, but no new issues 
were raised. 
Recently PDC has changed its representative. And it has now said that it is looking to 
calculate and pay any loss Mr N had suffered due to the advice it had given him. It asked for 
his authority to obtain some information to enable it to do this. 
Mr N hasnt disagreed with this, but he has requested that an ombudsman consider the 
merits of the complaint so the outcome of it is certain before providing his agreement or 
consent for PDC to calculate any loss he may have suffered. Ive done this below. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PDC's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, PDC should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ns 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
What Ive looked at in this decision and why
There has been a significant amount of correspondence already about whether it was right 
that the Financial Ombudsman Service consider this complaint. And this has been 
considered in some detail already. I wont go over all of those details again here. 
But for the avoidance of doubt, I dont think that this complaint is outside of the jurisdiction of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. This is because, even though Mr N indicated he didnt 
want to continue with his complaint at an early point in the process, PDC didnt ever issue a 
Final Response letter or a Summary Resolution letter, as it is required to do. I acknowledge 
that PDC now says there is no question that the complaint is outside of our jurisdiction. 
The complaint process that is laid down by the FCA provides both parties with a clear path 
for a complaint. The rules provide detailed guidance on how to acknowledge, and consider 
complaints, within certain timeframes. And if a quick resolution is reached then a Summary 
Resolution letter can be issued. Otherwise, a Final Response Letter should be issued. Both of these would have provided PDC, and Mr N, with an outcome to his complaint and what Mr 
N could do next if he didnt agree. 
But PDC didnt follow this process. That led to a situation where its reasonable to say that 
Mr Ns complaint wasnt fully considered. And under the rules that the Financial Ombudsman 
works under say that where this is the case we can, and should, go on to consider it. 
And this is the case even if Mr N indicated, at one point, that he wanted to withdraw his 
complaint. As his complaint wasnt properly looked at, and he wasnt given the information 
and timeframes to refer it here, I cant say that its not within our jurisdiction. And its not right 
to dismiss a complaint that hasnt been properly considered. 
PDC did initially respond to our Investigators opinion with a detailed response (drafted by its 
representative). However, things have moved on since that letter and PDC now says it is 
prepared to calculate and pay compensation. So, I wont respond to all of the issues raised 
in the earlier correspondence, although I have read them. Ill look at whether PDCs advice 
to transfer his DB scheme funds to a personal pension was suitable for Mr N and in his best 
interests, bearing in mind what has been said earlier. And comment on some of the issues 
PDC has raised about the compensation. 
Financial viability 
PDC carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ns pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr N was 55 at the time of the advice and wanted to retire at 65. The critical yield required to 
match Mr Ns benefits at age 65 was 16.59% if he took a full pension. The critical yield if 
Mr N took tax-free cash and a reduced pension wasnt calculated. 
The critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 
11.47% per year if Mr N took a full pension and 11% per year if he took tax-free cash and a 
reduced pension. This compares with the discount rate of 4.1% per year for nine years to 
retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ns 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr N 
giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, 
the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
11%, I think Mr N was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the 
DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. This would 
be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF.
And this was recognised at the time of sale when the suitability letter setting out the reasons 
for PDCs recommendation to transfer said This indicative number is partly based on 
assumptions of inflation rates which have been below average in recent years due to weak growth. The 16.59% is significantly above the current guideline of 4.2% pa of someone with 
your attitude to risk with 10  15 years until retirement. Our recommended investment 
portfolio is unlikely to meet this level. This means you could be worse off at retirement if you 
wanted to purchase an annuity like retirement income based on these assumptions.
And PDC provided cashflow models which it says shows Mr N wouldve been able to meet 
his needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, but PDCs models show that 
if Mr N took an income of an equal value to the DB scheme pension initially, which increased 
each year by the retail price index, and the fund grew at a medium rate of return, then it 
would run out at his age 78. Mr Ns life expectancy was calculated to be age 85. So, there 
was a significant risk, even if his line of work is considered, that he may be on a reduced 
income later on in his retirement as he had depleted his personal pension fund. 
For this reason alone, a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ns best interests. Of 
course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as PDC 
has said in this case. It said that Mr N wanted flexibility above all else and wanted to repay a 
modest debt and have an emergency sum. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It seems one of the main reasons that PDC recommended this transfer was for the flexibility 
and control it offered Mr N. Having considered the evidence, I dont think Mr N needed to 
transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension in order to have flexibility in retirement.
It's evident that Mr N could not take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take tax-free cash and a reduced annual pension, Mr N had to take those benefits 
at the same time. But Im not persuaded that Mr N had any concrete need to take tax-free 
cash and defer taking his income, or to vary his income throughout retirement. To my mind 
these seem more of a nice to have rather than a genuine objective.
I say this because it was documented that one of the reasons Mr N wanted to transfer was to 
access some cash to pay a loan to a family member and have an emergency fund. 
But Mr N was employed and living within his means, even though I appreciate he may not 
have had a lot spare each month. But this loan was modest and I dont think it was 
reasonable for him to give up his DB scheme benefits to pay this. PDC should have explored 
all of the other options Mr N may have had before recommending that he transfer for this 
reason. Repaying the loan this way was a very expensive means to repay his debt. 
And similarly, whilst Mr N did want to have an emergency fund, and Im sure this would have 
been useful to him, it was again a very expensive way to obtain this. And not in his best 
interests when he had no immediate or pressing need for any money. 
PDC didnt record what income Mr N wanted at retirement. Given that it was advising him on 
his retirement, and it was not too far away for Mr N, I think this was a significant failing. Its 
hard to see how PDC can now say that the advice to transfer was in his best interests when 
it wasnt clear what his needs were.
That said Mr N was taking home around £1,000 a month, which is £12,000 a year, and he 
seemed to be living within his means. And he indicated that his circumstances wouldnt 
change materially, so he would regard this as a minimum he would need to cover his 
expenditures. Ideally he would like more than this to be comfortable.  
It was estimated that the DB scheme would provide £25,738 at his age 65, and he would 
receive his state pension of £8,100 at his age 67. So, I dont think there is any doubt that taking the DB scheme would have met his aims at this age. He would have more than 
enough than he seemed likely to need at retirement. 
Mr N did want to retire early if possible. He had contacted the scheme and had been 
informed that in 2016 he could receive a full pension of £10,075.68 or a tax-free lump sum of 
£47,501 and a reduced pension of £7,125.24. So, I dont think retiring immediately and 
taking the DB scheme benefits was a realistic option for Mr N. 
PDC didnt look at the situation Mr N would have been in at age 60. He had indicated that he 
would consider retiring then so it should have done. The FCAs redress calculator for the 
BSPS pension says that where a consumer is five years away from the scheme retirement 
date then a reduction factor of 85% to 87% should be used depending on the time when the 
service was accrued. 85% of the estimated pension of £25,738 would give Mr N a pension of 
£21,877.30 at age 60. And he could take some tax-free cash and reduced pension as well. 
Even though I cant say these are definitely the amounts Mr N was entitled to, I think they 
demonstrate that at age 60 Mr N would have met his needs from the DB scheme as well. 
And again he would receive the state pension in time. 
So, Im satisfied Mr N could have met his income needs in retirement through the DB 
scheme. I dont think there was a pressing need for immediate cash, or at least to the degree 
that he should have transferred his pension and accepted the much lower retirement 
benefits this would lead to. I dont think it was suitable for him to transfer to increase the 
flexibility he had when he didnt really need this. 
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr N. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr N might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr N about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think PDC explored to what extent 
Mr N was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
And Mr N didnt have any financial dependents. Im sure he would have wanted to leave his 
pension fund to his older children or his wider family.  But as the cashflow analysis shows, 
there may not have been a large sum left particularly if Mr N lived a long life. In any event, 
PDC shouldnt have encouraged Mr N to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits 
through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr N genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think PDC 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr N. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
PDC has said that the compensation would not take into account his objective of leaving his 
funds to his wider family, but as this wasnt a good reason to make the transfer, I dont think 
it should. Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
It was recorded that Mr N wanted to break all ties with the DB scheme and would prefer to 
control his funds. He was particularly worried about the problems at his former employer and 
the related problems the DB scheme was facing. He said that this situation was causing him 
some stress. 
Its clear that Mr N, like many members of this scheme, was concerned about his pension. 
His ex-employer had recently said it was looking at the possibility of restructuring the DB 
scheme. But this was some time in the future and this process wouldnt be complete until 
late 2017. And the changes that were made took place in 2018. So, I think it would have 
been reasonable for PDC to have advised Mr N to wait until this situation developed further. 
And if he wanted to transfer out at a later date it was likely that he would be able to do so.
Furthermore, if the scheme did end up ultimately moving to the PPF, I think PDC should 
have explained that this was not as concerning as Mr N thought. As Ive explained above, 
Mr N was still unlikely to match, let alone exceed the benefits available to him through the 
PPF if he transferred out to a personal pension.
I think Mr Ns desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr N was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective 
for Mr N  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Suitability of investments
PDC recommended that Mr N invest in a range of funds. As Im upholding the complaint on 
the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr N, it follows that I 
dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because 
Mr N should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in these 
funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Would Mr N have joined the BSPS2
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ns ex-employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 11 
December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
So, I appreciate that PDC wouldnt have been able to fully explore the BSPS2 as an option 
for Mr N when it was giving advice. But if Mr N had stayed in the DB scheme he would have 
had to choose between his DB scheme moving to the PPF or he would had to opt in to the 
BSPS2. 
I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr N wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under 
the BSPS2. So, I think Mr N would have opted into the BSPS2. Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr N. But PDC 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr N might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr N needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr N was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr N was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Mr N shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme just to repay a modest debt and I dont think the problems with the scheme or his 
employer were so apparent that they were worth giving up the guarantees associated with 
his DB scheme.
So, I think PDC shouldve advised Mr N to remain in his DB scheme and Mr N would have 
ultimately joined the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr N would've gone ahead anyway, against PDC's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr N wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against PDCs advice. I say this because Mr N was an 
inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the majority of Mr Ns retirement 
provision. So, if PDC had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ns concerns about his old employer and the BSPS were so great 
that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If 
PDC had explained that Mr N could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr N would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think PDC should compensate Mr N for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for PDC to put Mr N, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr N would most likely 
have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable 
advice had been given. 
PDC must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
PDC should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. If PDC 
does not yet have access to the calculator it should contact the supervision department of 
the FCA to seek access to it as soon as possible. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr N and our Service upon completion of the calculation together with 
supporting evidence of what PDC based the inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr N has not yet retired, and as far as Im aware has no firm plans to do so at 
present. So, compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per 
the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ns 
acceptance of my decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, PDC should:
calculate and offer Mr N redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr N before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr N receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr N accepts PDCs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr N for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ns end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr N as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, PDC may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ns likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
PDC will need some information from Mr N, or his former scheme, and it would be helpful if 
Mr N could either provide this, or give PDC the authority to do this itself, a soon as he is 
able. 
And PDC has said that Mr N has been in receipt of state benefit income that he would not 
have received if he had remained part of the BSPS. As it has noted the redress scheme 
doesnt take this into account. The redress scheme looks at the difference in pension 
benefits only. The fact that Mr N has received some state benefits will be due to a range of 
factors and not just due to the pension advice. So, I dont think this should be factored into 
the compensation. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that thebusiness pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require The Pension 
Drawdown Company Limited to pay Mr N the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
The Pension Drawdown Company Limited pays Mr N the balance.
If Mr N accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on The Pension Drawdown 
Company Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr N can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr N may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman