DRN-1634040
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Honda Finance Europe Plc refused to spread his arrears over the 
remaining term of his agreement.
What happened
Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with Honda.
Partway into the agreement Mr B experienced financial difficulties. He contacted Honda and 
asked it to freeze payments for 6 months. Honda said it couldn't do this but it agreed with Mr 
B that he could pay £50 per month for 6 months.
Prior to the end of the 6 months Honda wrote to Mr B and advised him that his account was 
in arrears and asked him to pay these. Mr B contacted Honda and said he'd agreed at the 
time of entering into the payment arrangement that he could spread the arrears over the 
remaining term of the agreement. Honda said this hadn't been agreed.
Mr B complained to Honda. He said he'd agreed that he could spread the arrears over the 
term. In its final response Honda said it hadn't agreed this. it said it would accept an extra 
£30 per month on top of Mr B's normal contractual payment for 3 months but after this it 
would need to look for an alternative arrangement to clear the arrears.
Mr B wasn't happy with the response and complained to this service. He said he hadn't been 
able to clear the arrears and had felt threatened by the letters which Honda had sent to him, 
so he'd handed back the car and settled the finance. He said his new finance agreement 
was over a longer term and had a higher contractual monthly payment. Mr B wants 
compensation for the additional costs he's incurred and for the worry he was caused by the 
arrears letter and the possible negative impact on his credit file.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She said she didn't think Honda had agreed to 
spread the arrears over the remaining term of the agreement and felt that Honda had been 
receptive to Mr B's financial circumstances. She also said she thought Honda could have 
done more to warn Mr B that he would receive an arrears letter and felt that Mr B had been 
caused unnecessary worry by this, so she asked Honda to pay compensation of £50.
Mr B didn't agree with the level of compensation. He said he didn't think it reflected his 
increased financial burden or the stress and anxiety he'd suffered. He said ih he'd known 
that the payment arrangement would be reviewed every 3  6 months then he wouldn't have 
entered into it and would have continued to meet his contractual payments by using his 
overdraft facility.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've listened to the call dated January 2019 in which Mr B agreed to the payment 
arrangement of £50 per month. I appreciate that Mr B wanted to spread the arrears which would accrue during this time over the remaining term of his agreement. However, I 
think Honda made it clear during the call that it wouldn't agree to spread the arrears over the 
remaining term and that instead the repayment of the arrears would need to be reviewed 
every 3  6 months.
During the January 2019 call, Honda asked Mr B to call back in 6 months time. I've listened 
to that call as well, which took place in July 2019. I appreciate that it was only at this point 
that Mr B realised that he wasn't able to spread the arrears over the remaining term. Its clear 
there had been a misunderstanding about how the arrears could be paid, but having listened 
to the calls I don't think Honda can fairly be held responsible for the misunderstanding 
because it was clear in the first call that the arrears couldn't be paid over the remaining term.
Where a consumer gets into financial difficulties I'd expect a business to respond positively 
and sympathetically. I've looked at how Honda responded to Mr B and on balance I think it 
responded fairly by agreeing a payment arrangement followed by a regular review to make 
sure payments were affordable. I understand that Mr B wanted a different arrangement to 
that which was offered by Honda. However, I'm unable to require a business to spread 
arrears payments over the rest of the term and given the relatively low amount of arrears on 
Mr B's account, I don't think Honda would've been acting as a responsible lender if it had 
done this.
I've taken Mr B's comments about the worry he's been caused into account. He's mentioned 
the arrears letter he received which made him feel that he wasn't in a payment arrangement 
and caused him to feel threatened. He's also said he's worried about the negative impact on 
his credit file.
I've looked at the arrears letter which Mr B received from Honda in May 2019. This says the 
agreement is in arrears and asks Mr B to contact Honda immediately. Given that Mr B had 
already agreed a 6 month payment arrangement in January 2019, I can understand why he 
was worried by the letter, because it could be interpreted as meaning that there was no 
arrangement in place. I've taken into account that Mr B wasn't provided with a letter 
confirming his payment arrangement, so I can appreciate the distress and uncertainty he felt 
at this point. On balance, and whilst I appreciate that Honda was obliged to send the notice 
of arrears letter, I think it could have done more, given Mr B's circumstances, to contact him 
and warn him that the letter would be sent. 
Honda has confirmed that it hasn't reported any negative information to the credit reference 
agencies, so I don't think Mr B needs to feel concerned about any possible negative impact 
on his credit file.
I appreciate that Mr B feels that he's ended up in a worse financial position with his new 
finance agreement. However, I think Honda responded positively and sympathetically to Mr 
B and it was ultimately his choice to end the agreement. Mr B has said that he wouldn't have 
entered into the payment arrangement with Honda if he'd realised that the payment of 
arrears would be reviewed every 3 months. But having listened to the January 2019 call, I 
think Honda made this clear.
Taking everything into consideration I think Honda should pay compensation of £50 to Mr B 
to reflect the distress caused to him by the arrears letter, but beyond that I won't be asking it 
to do anything.My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold Mr B's complaint about the payment of 
the arrears over the remaining term of the agreement but I'm asking Honda Finance Europe 
Plc to pay compensation of £50 to Mr B for the distress caused to him by the arrears letter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Emma Davy
Ombudsman