DRN-2418408
The complaint
Mr L complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to give him the six weeks-
notice of an interest rate change to his Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Mr L has a Loyalty ISA with Nationwide which he changed from an Instant ISA Saver in April 
2019. Mr L says when he visited the branch to change the ISA back in 2019, he was told by 
the member of Nationwides staff he would be given six weeks-notice of any changes to his 
interest rate. Mr L says in early April 2020 he received a letter from Nationwide informing him 
his interest rate would reduce with effect  from 1st May 2020. Mr L says this notice period 
isnt in line with what he was told originally, and he had only been given two weeks to make 
alternative arrangements for his ISA, which was difficult given the restraints imposed by the 
COVID restrictions at this time. Mr L wants Nationwide to honour the previous interest rate 
he enjoyed for the six-week period as he was previously told and allow the account to be 
transferred without penalty. 
Nationwide says Mr L was given a copy of the terms and conditions at the time he changed 
his ISA in April 2019 and these state that at least two weeks-notice would be given of any 
future rate changes and not the six weeks Mr L says he was told. Nationwide have 
apologised to Mr L they had to make the interest rate changes to his ISA and say they have 
explained why this was needed.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response from Nationwide and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld Mr Ls complaint as he 
believed Mr L was, in all likelihood, told by Nationwide he would receive six weeks-notice 
before his interest rate would be changed. The investigator asked for Nationwide to pay Mr L 
the interest he would have missed out during this period plus £50 for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Nationwide werent happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome to that of the investigator but for different 
reasons and I will explain how I have come to my decision. 
I was sorry to learn of Mr Ls loss of his mother and I also understand the importance of the 
interest rate on his ISA, which he relies on to provide him with income. This must have been 
a difficult time for him along with the back drop that COVID currently presents. When looking 
at Mr Ls complaint I have considered whether Nationwide had given him incorrect 
information regarding the notice period required to change the interest rate on his ISA and 
whether the implementation of the change was fair and reasonable here. 
What happened here is Mr L changed the type of his ISA in April 2019 to a Loyalty ISA from 
an Instant ISA Saver. Mr L maintains that when he visited the branch to arrange this he was 
informed at the time he would be given six weeks-notice in the event of any changes to his 
interest rate on the ISA. Mr L says he received a letter from Nationwide in early April 2020 
informing him his interest rate would reduce from 1.4% to 0.25% with effect from 1st May 
2020, which he says was only two weeks-notice and not the six weeks he was originally told 
when he converted the ISA. Mr L was also unhappy with the level of reduction in his rate 
which he felt wasnt in line with base rate reductions applied by the Bank of England at the 
time. As a result, Mr L feels he should be allowed to move his ISA without penalty and 
Nationwide should pay him the difference in the interest for the six-week period. 
Mr L raises concerns regarding the level of interest rate now being offered on his ISA 
compared to base rate reductions. I understand his point, but this has been explained by 
Nationwide and its not my role to tell them what interest rates they must offer. What is 
important is when interest rates are changed an appropriate notice period is given, which 
covers the main point Mr L raises in his complaint to this service.  
Nationwide have provided this service with a copy of the terms and conditions of the ISA 
which they say was handed to Mr L during the branch visit in April 2019. Its worth 
mentioning these terms and conditions are the same as Mr Ls previous Instant ISA Saver 
before the account was converted in April 2019. That is to say there were no changes to the 
notice period in the event of any interest rate changes. The terms and conditions states 
under section 73.  
  If we reduce the interest rate on your account and you have £100 or more in your account, 
we will send you a personal notification at least 14 days before we make the change If you 
want to you then have 30 days from the date of notification, to tell us you want to close your 
account or switch to a different account If you do that, you will not have to give any notice, 
pay any charges or suffer any loss of interest that might otherwise have applied If we do not 
hear from you, we will regard you as accepting the change on the date it comes into effect.
Nationwide have also said when Mr L wrote to them in April 2020 concerning  the interest 
rate reduction, he didnt give any formal notice he intended to close his account and the 
body of his complaint centred around the interest rate reduction and not the notice period.
I have considered what both parties have said here and when coming to my decision, I have 
tried to come to a pragmatic solution reflecting the evidence I have seen and the back drop 
of the issues the current environment creates, and we all find ourselves in. On one hand Mr 
Ls preferred communication was by letter which may have added to any response time from 
Nationwide and other options open to him to discuss his concerns about the notice period. 
That said, Nationwide could have dealt with the issues Mr L raised as a customer query 
rather than a formal complaint, given the notice period and options were time critical. 
I cant see from the information made available to this service, there is any evidence to 
support Mr Ls view a member of staff at Nationwide informed him of a six week notice 
period. Its worth mentioning this wasnt part of Mr Ls terms and conditions of his current 
Loyalty ISA  or indeed his previous Instant Saver ISA held with them. Thats not suggesting 
Mr L didnt believe that to be the case, but I am satisfied this could be a misunderstanding at 
the time- especially given the terms and conditions mention both 14 & 30 days (44 days) 
which may be where the confusion over the six weeks-notice period came from. 
While Nationwide may not agree, I dont believe they have appropriately dealt with the issue 
Mr C raised in his letter to them in April 2020. I am satisfied the initial letter gives a reasonable and strong suggestion he is looking to move his ISA unless his issue over the six 
weeks-notice is explained - I think Nationwide could have answered the issues Mr L raised 
rather than treating it as a formal complaint. Instead it issued two holding letters which meant 
Mr L was unable to take steps to investigate alternative options he may have had with his 
ISA at that time, until the issue he had raised had been resolved. 
While Nationwide will not be happy with my decision, it should take the letter dated 19th April 
as notice of Mr Ls  wish to make alternative arrangements of some sort. 
By way of compromise while accepting the 14 days-notice period was correctly given by 
Nationwide, they should accept 30 days -notice from 19 April 2020, when Mr L initially wrote 
to them. Therefore, Mr L  should be paid interest from the period 1 May 2020 (the date the 
interest rate reduced) to 19 May 2020 being the expiry of the 30- day notice period, on the 
balance of his ISA, at the differential rate of 1.15%. I also support the investigators view 
Nationwide should pay Mr L £50 for the trouble and upset caused.
 Putting things right
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr L interest at a rate of 1.15% on the balance 
of his ISA for the period between 1 May 2020 to 19 May 2020. It should also pay Mr L £50 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mr L interest at a rate of 1.15% on the balance 
of his ISA for the period between 1 May 2020 to 19 May 2020. It should also pay Mr L £50 
for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman