DRN-4499926
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Strata Financial Resourcing Ltd (Strata) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable 
for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
Mr M is being represented by a professional third party but for ease of reading this decision 
Ill largely refer to representations as being made by Mr M.
What happened
Mr M held benefits in the BSPS. In March 2016, the sponsoring employer announced that it 
would be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the 
employers DB pension scheme) from the company. The consultation with members referred 
to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when their employer 
becomes insolvent. 
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by the employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
The RAA was signed and confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out 
shortly after. Updated transfer valuations were then provided by the BSPS trustees to 
qualifying members, reflecting the improved funding position  with the cash equivalent 
transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ms pension being £314,384.40. And in October 2017 members 
of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them the options to either stay in 
the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere.
Mr M was referred to Strata by another business for advice about his pension.
Strata completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and 
objectives. Mr M was 36, in good health, married to Mrs M, who was 31, and they had one 
child. They were both employed, and their income was recorded as exceeding their 
outgoings. They had a mortgage on their property with a remaining term of 34 years.
In addition to the benefits he held in the BSPS scheme, Mr M was also a member of his 
employers defined contribution (DC) pension, with he and his employer making combined 
contributions equivalent to 12% of his salary. It was also noted that Mrs M was a member of 
her employers pension scheme, although details of the expected benefits were limited.
Stratas notes said that Mr M was aware of the options he had regarding his BSPS benefits 
and preferred to transfer out to have the pension fund under his control. It said he was 
concerned about how the scheme had been handled and he had lost trust. Strata noted that 
Mr Ms main priority was the security of his pension and said he had concerns the BSPS2 
may also fall into the PPF so considered a transfer the most secure option. Strata said Mr M 
thought he was likely to retire early, realistically by age 60 and expected to need an income 
of £1,800 per month. Although it noted it was difficult to consider retirement options given his 
age it said Mr M was clear hed like to retire early. And it said hed want access to his 
pension benefits, including tax-free cash to clear his remaining mortgage, at that point.
Strata also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed to be high 
medium. This assessment said the target portfolio for a high medium risk profile investor 
had an estimated annual growth rate of 3.11%.
On 29 November 2017, Strata advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension with a named provider and invest in one of its portfolios. The suitability report noted 
Strata and Mr M agreed it was difficult to have a clear picture of what his retirement would 
look like that far in advance. But Strata still considered a transfer was suitable. It said his and 
Mrs Ms state pension, as well as their other provisions were likely to meet their longer-term 
income needs. Strata felt the returns required to match the benefits Mr M was giving up, the 
critical yield, were realistic and achievable. And a transfer would allow Mr M to take control 
of his pension and achieve his objective of retiring early.
Mr M complained in December 2021 to Strata about the suitability of the transfer advice. 
Strata didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said Mr M had a longer term aim to retire early and 
that it thought transferring was the best way to achieve this. It still believed the critical yields 
were achievable based on the past performance of the recommended fund and what had 
happened since. Some of the other benefits offered by a personal pension, such as lump 
sum death benefits, were beneficial to Mr M. And it said Mr M had been clear that he wanted 
to transfer his benefits away from the BSPS and hadnt been concerned by the loss of 
guaranteed benefits. So, Strata said it felt if it hadnt recommended a transfer, Mr M 
wouldve still made efforts to transfer. 
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
considered the complaint and said they thought it should be upheld. He thought Mr M was 
unlikely to improve on the benefits he was giving up by transferring, particularly if he had 
taken early retirement. He also didnt think Mr M needed to transfer in order to meet his aim 
of retiring early, as he wouldve by that time built up additional benefits in the intervening 
years that couldve been used to assist in meeting these aims. So, he thought Strata 
shouldve advised him to retain his guaranteed benefits, particularly given Mr Ms concerns 
about pension security. And he recommended that Strata compensate Mr M for any losses 
caused by the unsuitable advice and pay him £200 for the worry hed been caused.
Strata first said that it disagreed. In summary, it said the critical yield figures from the time 
were potentially higher than they should be, because the trustees of the BSPS had provided 
limited information. But in any event, Strata believed these were achievable. It also said 
there was no guarantee in regard to what level of other pension benefits Mr M wouldve built 
up by retirement. And Strata said Mr M had been fully aware of the advantages and 
disadvantages of a transfer and it still strongly believed hed have sought to transfer if Strata 
had recommended he not.
Strata added it was satisfied it had complied with the requirements of it at the time  which 
were to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable for Mr M, not guarantee 
that it would be with hindsight. And it said the Investigator had placed too much weight on 
the critical yield, and not Mr Ms overall circumstances.
More recently, Strata explained that, while it still didnt agree with the Investigators opinion, 
in an attempt to resolve matters it had carried out a redress calculation using the BSPS specific redress calculator that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has 
developed. Although the calculator has been developed for the BSPS consumer redress 
scheme, it can still be used to carry out calculations in non-scheme cases, such as Mr Ms 
complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service. And our Investigator informed both 
parties, when this was developed, that if an Ombudsmans decision was required and they 
upheld the complaint, they may require Strata to use this calculator. 
Strata said its calculation showed that Mr M had not suffered a loss as a result of the transfer 
advice. It also confirmed, to the Investigator, that it would agree to pay the £200 that was 
recommended for distress, as a gesture of goodwill.
We shared this with Mr M. Our Investigator said they believed the calculation had been 
carried out correctly and that it appeared no redress was due. So, he asked Mr M whether 
he was now willing to accept the offer of £200 Strata had made as a gesture of goodwill to 
resolve matters.
Mr Ms representatives said he would still like a final decision by an Ombudsman. It had 
nothing to add in respect of the calculation. But it said Mr M had suffered a lot of worry and 
felt more should be awarded to address the distress caused.
In light of Mr Ms comments and as agreement could not be reached, Im now providing a 
final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Strata has said while it doesnt believe the advice was unsuitable and doesnt agree with the 
Investigators opinion, it has carried out a loss calculation and agrees to pay Mr M £200 for 
the distress caused, as a gesture of goodwill, as recommended by our Investigator. So, it 
has agreed to put things right, in the way that the Investigator felt was fair.
With this in mind, what is effectively left to decide is if the offer made is fair and reasonable. 
For the avoidance of doubt though, I have thought about the advice given. Ive taken into 
account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes 
of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time - including 
the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). 
And, having done so, I agree with our Investigators view that the advice was unsuitable, for 
broadly the same reasons.
Strata says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
was suitable for Mr M. I agree that under COBS, Strata was required to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr M was suitable for him (COBS 
9.2.1). But it was also required, under COBS 2.1.1R to ensure it acted in accordance with his 
best interests. And additional regulations and guidance apply to advising on transferring out 
of DB schemes (COBS 19). These say that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that Strata should only have considered a transfer out of 
the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests 
(COBS 19.1.6G). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in 
his best interests. Ill briefly explain why.
There would be little point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through 
his DB scheme only to achieve, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.Strata produced a TVAS report, as required by the regulator, which included the 
calculation of critical yields. It calculated the critical yields to replicate the benefits 
Mr M could receive under the BSPS2 and the PPF at the normal scheme retirement 
age of 65 and at age 60. 
It has said that the yields calculated may actually have been higher than they should 
have been, this was because the BSPS trustees had not provided full information. 
But Id also note that the benefits the TVAS estimated Mr M would be entitled to 
under the BSPS2 were less than those his personalised time to choose report said 
he might expect to receive. So, if he the figures in the time to choose letter were 
correct, and he wouldve been entitled to greater benefits than the TVAS estimated, 
the critical yields may actually have been too low. 
That notwithstanding, Ive considered the critical yields that were calculated. Ive also 
thought about Mr Ms recorded attitude to risk as well as the regulators standard 
projections from the time. Ive taken into account the information in the risk 
assessment Strata produced, which said the estimated potential annual growth for a 
portfolio matching Mr Ms risk profile was 3.11%. And Ive thought about the potential 
rates of return the recommended pension provider used in its personalised 
illustration.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 
2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. While Strata was not required to consider these discount rates, the regulator 
did require businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme 
with those payable under a personal pension, using reasonable assumptions. And 
the discount rates give a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. And so, while Strata was not 
obliged to use the discount rate, it would, in my view, be a reasonable assumption to 
consider. And it was free to do so. So, Ive also considered the relevant discount 
rates from the time.
Taking all of these things into account, the critical yields were largely above the level 
of growth these other measures suggested was likely to be consistently achievable. 
And I think Mr M was always unlikely to improve on the benefits hed have received 
under the BSPS2 or the PPF at the normal retirement age, by transferring. And if he 
had retired early, I think Mr M was likely to receive benefits of lower value than hed 
have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF.
And while Ive taken on board what Strata has said about the past performance of the 
recommended fund and how it has performed since the transfer, as it is aware past 
performance is no guarantee for future performance. The personalised illustration 
from the pension provider also used very different, more conservative, estimated 
growth rates. And overall, I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard 
projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting 
historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period of time.
And the critical yields arent the only thing that, in my view, indicates Mr M would be 
worse off in retirement by transferring. The TVAS estimated that the cost, or pension 
fund value that would be required, to purchase equivalent benefits at age 60 to match 
the TFC and reduced pension the BSPS2 wouldve offered was an estimated 
£669,016.87. And to match the full pension the BSPS2 would provide, this figure 
would be £836,343.75. A personalised illustration from the pension provider said though that if the mid-rate of growth was achieved until age 60, the value of the 
pension was likely to only be £305,000. And if high growth was achieved it would 
still only be £601,000  both significantly below what would be needed to replicate 
the guaranteed benefits that hed given up. So overall, I think Mr M was always likely 
to be worse off in retirement by transferring.
Strata said Mr M was very keen on retiring early and expected to do so at age 60. 
But he was only 36 at the time of the advice  a long way from when he expected to 
retire. The recommendation even acknowledged that it was very difficult to have a 
clear picture of what retirement would look like for Mr M as he was so far removed 
from it. And indeed. Strata also said Mr M might have chosen to change his working 
pattern, rather than retire at 60  which I think supports his plans were not known. 
Mr M couldve taken benefits early under the BSPS2 or the PPF. He was also 
contributing to another pension that he couldve accessed flexibly from age 60. And a 
combination of these benefits appears to have been likely to be able to meet his 
income needs. And he couldve accessed tax-free cash through those pension 
arrangements as well, which Strata said he expected to want  although Im not sure 
how much hed have actually required was well defined as I cant see that there was 
any real analysis of how much his outstanding mortgage would be by age 60. 
Strata has said that Mr M wouldnt have needed the majority of the income from his 
DB scheme once he and Mrs M began receiving their state pensions and accessing 
their other benefits. And has suggested the income would then have become 
unnecessary. But I think its rarely the case that people complain of having too much 
money.
Strata has also said that there was potential uncertainty over Mr Ms employment and 
there was no guarantee hed have continued to contribute to the new pension with 
his employer. But its reasonable, in my view, to think hed have continued to build his 
pension benefits, either through this scheme or with another employer if he moved 
roles, until he retired.
Again though, ultimately Mr M was only 36 at the time of the advice. I dont doubt that 
he likely indicated in discussion with Strata that he aspired to retire early. I think, 
when asked, most people would say they would like to do so. But his circumstances, 
objectives or aims couldve changed over the years that followed. So overall, I think it 
was too soon for an irreversible decision to transfer out of his DB scheme to be 
considered in his best interests. Particularly when he had the option of joining the 
BSPS2, which wouldve meant he retained the option to transfer out at a later date if 
his circumstances required it.
Strata suggested in its recommendation that the alternative death benefits offered by 
a personal pension were a benefit to Mr M. But as a pensions primary purpose is to 
meet the holders needs in retirement, I dont think this meant a transfer was in 
Mr Ms best interest, particularly when life insurance couldve been explored and, in 
my view, would have been a more appropriate solution for providing a legacy.
Strata said that Mr M was worried about the security of his pension benefits and 
considered a transfer to be the best way to assure this. But a transfer exposed the 
pension to market risk which he bore in full. Whereas in the DB scheme the trustees 
assumed all of the risk and guaranteed to provide a pension of a certain amount to 
Mr M.
I dont doubt that Mr M was likely to have been worried by what had happened to that point regarding the DB scheme. The consultation was likely to have been unsettling 
and he may well have had negative feelings about how his pension had been 
handled and mightve thought moving his pension away from the sponsoring 
employer was appropriate. I think that would have been a very natural emotional 
response to what was happening. But Stratas role was to give impartial, objective 
advice.
There had been a number of key announcements that all pointed toward the BSPS2 
being established as an alternative. Which was expected to provide better benefits 
than the PPF and still provide Mr M the option to transfer closer to retirement. Strata 
has said that Mr M had concerns about whether the BSPS2 would also encounter 
problems and potentially fall into the PPF. But I dont think there was any evidence to 
support this would be the likely outcome at the time, beyond the concerns and 
negative sentiment the consultation mightve created. Which Strata shouldve 
addressed.
But even if Mr M moved to the PPF, this still provided him with a guaranteed income 
and the option of accessing his benefits early. As Ive said, I think Mr M was unlikely 
to improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interests.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ms best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension.
Strata has said that Mr M made an informed decision to transfer, that he had considered his 
options and already thought a transfer was what he wanted and that it feels strongly, had it 
advised him against doing so, he wouldve insisted and sought to proceed. 
As Ive said, Mr M mightve gone into the discussion thinking about transferring. And in 
discussions with Strata he mightve indicated, as it has suggested, he had a good 
understanding of his pension. But, even if this was the case, I dont think him having thought 
about this or showing an understanding of his pension, meant that he wouldve rejected the 
recommendations of a professional adviser. Ultimately Strata advised Mr M to transfer. And I 
think he relied on that advice. If Strata, a professional adviser whose expertise he had been 
recommended, had explained why it wasnt in his best interests to transfer I think hed have 
accepted that advice.
As I think Mr M has received unsuitable advice, the aim of any recommendation would be to 
put him, as far as possible, in the position he wouldve been but for that advice. Mr M cannot 
though return to the BSPS. So, the aim is to put Mr M back in the financial position he would 
have been in at retirement had he remained in the DB scheme. For which the FCA 
developed a calculator, specific to the BSPS. And Strata has now carried out a calculation 
using that calculator. Which is what I would expect them to do in the circumstances. 
The calculator uses economic and demographic assumptions to calculate how much a 
consumer needs in their pension arrangement to secure equivalent BSPS retirement 
benefits that they would have been entitled to under either BSPS2 or the PPF (as uplifted to 
reflect the subsequent buy-out), had they not transferred out. 
If the calculation shows there is not enough money in the consumers pension arrangement 
to match the BSPS benefits they would have received, the shortfall is the amount owed to 
the consumer. If the calculation shows there is enough money in the consumers pension 
arrangement, then no redress is due.The BSPS calculator has been developed by actuaries and is programmed by the FCA with 
benefit structures of the BSPS, BSPS2 and PPF (including the impact of the subsequent 
buy-out) and relevant economic and demographic assumptions which are updated regularly. 
This information cant be changed by firms.
The calculator also makes automatic allowances for ongoing advice fees of 0.5% per year 
and product charges of 0.75% per year which are set percentages by the FCA.
I have checked the inputs that were entered by Strata which are personal to Mr M. These 
include Mr Ms personal details, his individual benefits from the BSPS at the date he left the 
scheme and the value of his personal pension. All of which appear to have been input 
correctly. The calculation also assumes that if he had not been advised to transfer his 
benefits from the BSPS, he would have moved to the BSPS2 and that he would have taken 
his DB benefits at age 65  in line with the recommendation of the Investigator and what the 
regulator says should be the usual starting assumption about retirement age.
Overall, based on what Ive seen, the calculation has been carried out appropriately and in 
line with the rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as 
detailed in the FCAs policy statement PS22/13 and set out in their handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
The calculation in Mr Ms case shows that there is no shortfall to his pension and that he has 
sufficient funds to be able to replicate his DB benefits in retirement. So, Im satisfied that 
Mr M has not suffered a financial loss by transferring his pension. 
And as an appropriate calculation has now been carried out by Strata, I dont think it needs 
to do anything further in respect of any potential financial loss.
Strata has offered to pay £200 as recommended by our Investigator, as a gesture of goodwill 
for the distress this matter has caused Mr M. His representative has said Mr M thinks he 
should receive greater compensation for this.
Mr M received advice from Strata in November 2017. He first complained about that advice 
in late 2021. I havent seen anything that suggests the advice caused him ongoing distress 
during that period as the first indication he potentially had any concerns about the advice 
seems to have been when he first discussed matters with his professional representative. 
So, I dont think I can fairly conclude he was caused ongoing distress by the advice from the 
point it was given to when he made a complaint. Nor can I see that he has been caused any 
inconvenience  administrative or other  in that period, resulting from the advice.
I acknowledge that Mr M then raised a complaint. But his representative has handled the 
complaint on his behalf since it was first made. So, this doesnt appear to have 
inconvenienced him. And we wouldnt usually make an award just for someone having to go 
to the effort of making a complaint - because things do go wrong from time to time and its 
reasonable to expect that they will need to be put right. And I dont think itd be fair to do so 
here. 
Since discussing this with his representative and lodging a complaint, Mr M might potentially 
have been worried by the thought of the advice he received having been unsuitable for him. 
The advice related to his pension, which is important to his longer-term financial planning. 
But again, Mr M was only 36 at the time he received advice and 40 at the time he 
complained  so still a long way from retiring or, in my view, from having any concrete plans 
relating to retirement.
I dont doubt, given the circumstances and uncertainty under which he asked for advice, thinking about this potentially being wrong has likely caused him some concern. Which is 
likely in my view to have been more than the levels of frustration and annoyance you might 
reasonably expect from day-to-day life. But I believe most people feel strongly about 
complaints they make, if they think something has gone wrong. And our role is not to fine or 
punish Strata. And, although I dont doubt that Mr M has potentially been worried that he 
mightve received unsuitable advice, the calculation Strata has carried out should reassure 
him that he has not suffered a loss. So, having taken all of this into consideration, while I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, I think the award of £200 recommended by 
the Investigator, which Strata has agreed to pay, is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Strata Financial Resourcing Ltd to pay Mr M £200, as it 
has previously agreed to, for the distress this matter has caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman