DRN-1577694
The complaint
Mr F says Total Home Loans Direct Limited ("THLD") lent to him irresponsibly. Mr F also 
says he found THLD to have at times been 'bullying' when contacting him about his 
outstanding debt.
What happened
Mr F had ten instalment loans with THLD. I've summarised some of the information THLD 
provided about the loans below.
Loan no. Date Taken Date Repaid Amount (£)
1 01/06/2015 28/08/2015 £200
2 01/09/2015 28/10/2015 £350
3 28/10/2015 28/01/2016 £400
4 04/02/2016 28/04/2016 £400
5 16/11/2016 27/01/2017 £300
6 14/02/2017 28/04/2017 £350
7 12/05/2017 28/07/2017 £400
8 29/09/2017 13/12/2017 £400
9 05/01/2018 26/03/2018 £400
10 04/04/2018 n/a £500
An adjudicator considered Mr F's complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. The 
adjudicator didn't think THLD should've approved loans 4 to 10. The adjudicator didn't think 
there was enough evidence to suggest THLD had 'bullied' Mr F when making contact about 
his outstanding balance.
THLD didn't agree with what the adjudicator said about the lending, but made an offer in 
respect of loans 4, 6, 7 and 9. Neither party has since commented on what the adjudicator 
said about THLD's contact with Mr F about the outstanding balance.
Mr F didn't accept THLD's offer, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. Since the 
adjudication there's been no ongoing dispute about loans 1 to 3, so I won't comment on 
those loans. And as neither party said anything further about THLD's contact with Mr F about 
the outdating balance, I'll only touch on that briefly.
What Ive decided  and why
 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. THLD needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that THLD should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that THLD was required to establish 
whether Mr F could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
I've carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr F's complaint.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of THLDs lending history with Mr F, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which THLD should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so THLD should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
I can see that Mr F took out ten loans with THLD in a little under three years. Most of the 
loans were taken out in close succession, except for loan 5. Loan 5 was taken out after an 
almost seven month break. In Mr F's case, I don't think this really represented a break in the 
chain of borrowing. That's because I can see Mr F continued to apply for credit throughout 
this period. So I've looked at the time period covering the loans as if it were one continuos 
chain of lending.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr F's case, I think that by loan 4, THLD ought to have 
realised further borrowing was likely to be unsustainable or otherwise harmful. I say this 
because:
At this point THLD ought to have realised Mr F was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr F had been in debt to THLD for eight consecutive months, and had already taken out a previous loan (3) on the same day as repaying another loan (1 
and 2). Mr F had only repaid loan 3 a week before asking for loan 4. So THLD ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Mr F was having to borrow further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loans was leaving in his finances and that his 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Putting aside the break in lending (for the reasons explained above), from loan 
4 onwards Mr F was provided with a new loan shortly after settling a previous one. I 
do not consider the two month gap between loans 7 and 8 to be significant, given the 
overall length of the lending relationship
I think that Mr F lost out because THLD continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time 
and;
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr F borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So I'm upholding Mr F's complaint about THLD's decision to provide loans 4 to 10.
As I said above, I'm only going to touch briefly on Mr F's complaint about the contact he 
received from THLD about the outstanding debt. I've not seen enough information or 
evidence to suggest the level of contact was excessive. In any event, it seems to me very 
likely that the redress set out below will mean Mr F won't owe THLD anything going forward. 
So this will bring the relationship between Mr F and THLD to an end, meaning no further  
contact should be necessary.
Putting things right
THLD shouldn't have given Mr F loans 4 to 10. If THLD has sold the outstanding debts it 
should buy these back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If it is not able 
to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results 
outlined below.
A) THLD should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr F towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) THLD should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr F 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr F originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) THLD should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr F as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr F having made 
overpayments then THLD should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. THLD should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr F. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
THLD should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr F. THLD shouldn't pursue 
outstanding balances made up of principal it has already written-off.E) The overall pattern of Mr Fs borrowing for loans 4 to 10 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so THLD should remove these loans entirely from Mr Fs credit file. 
THLD does not have to remove loan 10 from Mr Fs credit file until it has been repaid, but 
THLD should still remove any adverse information recorded about this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires THLD to deduct tax from this interest. THLD should give
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr F's complaint in part. Total Home Loans Direct Limited should put things right by 
taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman