DRN-4195649
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc applied a fee when he repaid his mortgage. This was 
despite it telling him when he took out the mortgage that it was fee free.
What happened
Mr H took out a mortgage with Santander in 2019. He repaid the mortgage in 2022. 
Santander applied an account fee of £225.
Mr H says he told Santander in 2019 he wanted a mortgage that was fee free as he intended 
to repay it early. He says Santander assured him this was the case. He says if hed been 
told there was a fee hed have applied to another lender offering a fee free mortgage.
Our investigator said the account fee was set out in the mortgage offer and Santander was 
entitled to apply it.
Mr H didnt agree. He said if Santander could provide a recording of his call in 2019 this 
would support what he said hed been told  that the mortgage was fee free.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander provided a copy of the mortgage offer issued in September 2019 and a change of 
borrower offer issued in 2020. Both say that there is a £225 mortgage account fee. This can 
be paid on completion or when the mortgage is repaid (in which case interest is applied). 
Mr H doesnt dispute that the fees are set out in the mortgage offer. He says he was misled 
during a call with Santander that this was a fee free mortgage, and even paid a higher 
interest rate to ensure it was fee free.
Unfortunately, Santander no longer has recordings from 2019. I appreciate Mr Hs frustration 
about this. I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. Ive taken the following into account when reaching my decision.
First, without the call recording, I cant be sure that any discussion was about, or even 
included, the account fee. The discussion could have been about whether there was a 
product fee or an early repayment charge (both of which would have been a more significant 
amount of money) or whether Santander would pay for the cost of the valuation.
Mr H says it was read out to him over the phone that the mortgage was free but attracted a 
higher interest rate as a result. He says he repeated that he wanted a mortgage that allowed 
a no fee early repayment. This suggests to me that the discussion was about whether the 
interest rate product he chose included a product fee or early repayment charge. The 
account fee applies regardless of when the mortgage is repaid or the interest rate.
Second, the mortgage offer sets out the account fee. I dont think its fair to say that this was 
a hidden fee or that Mr H wasnt made aware of it.
Third, its not unusual for mortgage lenders to apply an account fee or administrative fee to a 
mortgage account. I dont know if other lenders were offering mortgages in 2019 with no fees 
at all. And, if they were, Mr H would have to consider whether the interest rates they offered 
would make this saving worthwhile. So, although Mr H says hed have gone elsewhere to 
avoid paying any fees, I dont know that hed have done so.
Its clear that Mr H was upset to be asked by Santander to pay the account fee. But this fee 
was set out in the mortgage offer that he accepted, and I think Santander is entitled to apply 
it. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Santander to waive or 
refund the fee.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman