DRN-2600651
The complaint
Ms P complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMW Financial) were 
irresponsible in approving a hire purchase agreement for her because it was unaffordable.
What happened
In July 2019, Ms P entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial to acquire a 
brand new car. The total cash price of the car was £24,525. Ms P provided an initial payment 
of around £5,450 (the value of a car she part exchanged), and after the first repayment of 
around £241 the monthly repayments on the agreement were around £241 over a 46-month 
period. There was an optional final repayment of around £10,617 at the end of the 
agreement.
Ms P says that at the time BMW Financial should never have approved her for the hire 
purchase agreement because they didnt carry out affordability checks. She says that if the 
checks were adequately performed, the finance would not have been provided. She says 
that at the time of purchase she was not in fixed employment, and she was still a student at 
a university. Ms P says she borrows from her parents as that is the only way she can afford 
the car payments, bills and general living costs. She says that the checks would also reveal 
that at the time of entering into the finance agreement she had a £2,000 student overdraft 
which she says she is struggling to pay back. Ms P says that this situation of being both a 
student and having this obligation has caused her sleepless nights and a lot of stress. 
In February 2020, BMW Financial wrote to Ms P and said that in reaching their auto-accept 
decision, consideration was given to her declared employment status, residential status and 
age, in conjunction with the requested monthly payment. They say that a request was made 
to a credit reference agency for all her existing credit account data. They say that this data 
was then factored into the confidential in-house scoring model, with an acceptable result 
achieved. So, they say, that the application was subjected to their standard suite of policy 
rules, with no concerns raised, and they say the satisfactory results enabled an acceptance 
to be generated by their Credit Decision System without the need for any manual 
underwriting intervention. BMW Financial in this correspondence go on to say that they 
consider their credit decision logic to be aligned with the FCA Guidelines, under which they 
operate. They said that that Ms P acknowledged her understanding of the monthly payment 
requirement by signing their terms and conditions. So, they say, they have met their 
obligation in being a responsible lender.
Ms P was unhappy with this, so she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld.
BMW Financial disagreed with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Amongst other things, I have considered the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
When looking at this type of a complaint I need to consider two main questions, in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
The first question is:
1. Did BMW Financial complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
themselves that Ms P would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did BMW Financial 
make a fair lending decision bearing in mind the information gathered and what 
they knew about Ms Ps circumstances?
b. If reasonable and proportionate checks were not completed, would such checks 
have shown that Ms P would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
The second question is:
2. Did BMW Financial act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And, if I think Ms P has been disadvantaged in any way by BMW Financials actions, then I 
will consider what is a fair way to put things right.
Did BMW Financial complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves 
that Ms P would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
BMW Financial were required to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks of Ms Ps 
ability to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These sometimes called affordability 
checks need to be borrower-focussed (considering Ms Ps specific circumstances) and 
carried out in addition to a creditworthiness assessment, to see if she could have afforded to 
repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner. So, BMW Financial needed to consider the 
impact of any credit payments on Ms P and not just the likelihood of getting their money 
back.
There is no set list of checks BMW Financial needed to complete. But the checks should 
have been proportionate to the circumstances, and what is reasonable and proportionate will 
vary depending on a number of factors such as, but not limited to the:
- Amount of credit;
- Duration (or likely duration) of the credit;- Frequency of the repayments;
- Amount of repayments;
- Total amount payable;
- Total charge for credit; and
- Consumers individual circumstances.
The list above is not exhaustive, and what is considered proportionate may vary as any of 
the above factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and proportionate check 
ought to be.
I have considered that the total amount repayable, before deducting the £5,450 deposit (the 
value of the car that was part exchanged), was approximately £24,525. And the monthly 
repayments were around £241 over a 46-month period. Considering this was a relatively 
long-term commitment, and significant size of borrowing, I believe that the assessment of 
affordability ought to have been relatively thorough.
BMW Financial say that in reaching an automated decision, they considered Ms Ps declared 
employment status, residential status and age, in conjunction with the requested monthly 
payment. They said a request was made to a credit reference agency for all her existing 
credit account data. They say that the data were then factored into the confidential in-house 
scoring model, and they say that, subsequently, the application was subjected to their 
standard suite of policy rules, with no concerns raised, which they say showed no cause for 
concern or the need for an underwriter to intervene. They say they consider their credit 
decision logic to be aligned to the FCA Guidelines under which they operate. They say in 
addition, Ms P received an Adequate Explanations Document which includes a section on 
Key Product Features, which includes underlined important information requiring the 
customer to consider their ability to meet the payments. They say Ms P acknowledged her 
understanding of the monthly payment requirement through signing both the Adequate 
Explanations Document and the finance agreement. BMW Financial also say that Ms P 
visited the dealership with her father who went through the particulars of the finance 
agreement with her making things more favourable for her prior to her signing the 
agreement. They have also said that due to Ms Ps age and her profession they assumed 
that she would be able to understand the finance agreement prior to signing, so they say 
they cannot shoulder all responsibility when Ms P was the one that sought out the finance. 
Also, BWM Financial say that the checks they do are in accordance with FCA guidelines 
and, they say, they use the same model for thousands of agreements without any 
intervention from the governing bodies. And they say that if those bodies didnt agree, they 
would have been asked to change the way they carry out these checks, so they say that 
they are satisfied that the necessary checks they did were correct and fair.
So, Ive considered all of the above, and first I should mention that even though BWM 
Financial may use the same model for thousands of credit agreement approvals, Im 
required to look at each case on its individual merits, and it doesnt immediately follow that 
their lending decision was a fair one in each and every case. And while there may be 
similarities between different cases, all are considered on their own individual facts and 
merits. Here I make my decision based on what I think is fair and reasonable considering all 
the circumstances of this particular case.
BMW Financial, in addition to the creditworthiness assessment, and in addition to providing 
Ms P with the Adequate Explanations Document, needed to see if she could have afforded to repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner considering her circumstances. I understand 
that BMW Financial relied on Ms P acknowledgments of the documents that she 
understands the monthly payment requirement, but it is BMW Financial that were required to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate checks of Ms Ps ability to repay the borrowing in a 
sustainable way, so I do not think it is reasonable for them to rely solely on the information 
given by Ms P and her acknowledgments. And this does not absolve them of their 
responsibility to carry out appropriate and proportionate checks.
BMW Financial have not supplied us with any information they have assessed when 
agreeing this finance agreement, aside from mentioning that Ms P was employed and what 
age she was at the time. On their system notes that they have provided from around the time 
of sale, I can see that there is a mention that Ms P has only been in the job for one week and 
that she has just moved out from her previous place of residence about a week prior to 
entering into the finance agreement. Considering the amount of credit they were providing, 
and the relatively long-term commitment to repay the credit, I think it would have been 
reasonable for them to find out more information around her employment. And it seems that 
BMW Financial had no information at all on what Ms Ps income was at the time, as they 
have not provided any information about this to us. As such, it seems there was no way for 
them to tell what her disposable income was.
Ms P has provided us with a copy of her credit file. So most likely the information BMW 
Financial would have seen at the time wouldve been similar to what she has provided us. 
From this I can also see that about a year prior to entering into the agreement, Ms P had 
three missed payments so, I think this would start to raise some concerns. From this 
information I can also see that she had no other credit facilities except for an overdraft on 
her current account, but it does not seem like BMW Financial have taken into consideration 
a repayment figure towards Ms Ps around £2,000 overdraft at the time. And I cant see that 
BMW Financial have taken into consideration a repayment for any of Ms P commitments and 
expenditures.
I think they ought to have done more to understand Ms Ps other commitments and 
expenditures because, outside of her credit commitments, which they say they were aware 
of, BMW Financial did not know what other committed expenditure Ms P had or what amount 
of income she had at the time. They have not taken note of how much she was spending for 
things such as car insurance, maintenance, road tax, petrol, food and other living essentials. 
So, I do not think without this information BMW Financial could reasonably conclude that the 
credit agreement was affordable and sustainable for Ms P. 
Considering, as I mentioned above, that BMW Financial did not know what other committed 
expenditure Ms P had, I think, they had even more reasons to get a better understanding of 
Ms Ps financial circumstances at the time. Also, I think it would have been reasonable to 
expect BMW Financial to find out more about her employment and income. It seems that 
they decided to lend a considerable sum of money, repayable over a relatively long-term, 
without appearing to know anything about how much she was making or the type of income 
she was receiving. This means they could not have known whether Ms P would be able to 
sustainably repay a borrowing over nearly a four-year term.
 
Overall, I do not think BMW Financial carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy themselves that Ms P would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. 
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms P could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
I think it would have been reasonable for BMW Financial to find out more information about 
Ms Ps financial circumstances at the time. I cannot be certain what evidence, information or what questions BMW Financial would have asked and reviewed. However, I have been 
provided with a copy of Ms Ps bank statements from the time of borrowing, and I have 
reviewed these along with Ms Ps credit file to get an understanding of what her financial 
commitments were likely to be. In absence of anything else, I think the information available 
from the bank statements were a reasonable indicator of the type of evidence or information 
BMW Financial would have likely found out about Ms Ps income and expenditure, had they 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks at the time of borrowing.  
The bank statements show that Ms P had regular weekly payments of £60, Ms P says this 
was from some ad hoc work that she does for her fathers company. The only other amounts 
of money that seem to enter Ms Ps account are varied, irregular and consist of money from 
her family which reasonably cannot be considered as income. I say this because Im sure 
family wouldve wanted to help if they could, but as peoples circumstances can change, they 
may not have been in a position to do so for the whole term of the finance agreement. 
Looking at Ms Ps bank statements I have noted that in June 2019 she did receive an extra 
£250 from her dads company. And in July 2019 she did receive an extra £320. Ms P says 
this was because she did a few extra hours to pay for her end of exam trip, but she says this 
was a one off situation, as she says she wouldn't have been able to keep up additional hours 
of work during the academic year. So, Ive looked at bank statements for the five months 
prior to the credit agreement being taken out, as I think the information available from the 
bank statements were a reasonable indicator of the type of evidence or information BMW 
Financial would have likely found out about Ms Ps income and expenditure, had they 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks at the time of borrowing. And from those 
five months of bank statements, I can see these extra amounts were only paid to her in two 
out of the five months. So, considering these amounts were varied and irregular I dont think 
these can reasonably be considered as regular income.     
Considering that £60 on a weekly basis is approximately £260 a month, and the car finance 
payments on the hire purchase agreement is approximately £241, that would only leave Ms 
P about £19 a month to spend on other expenses. We also have to take into consideration 
the other credit that was available to Ms P at the time  the current account overdraft  with 
a total credit limit of £2,000 and which was approximately all maxed out at the time. I think a 
reasonable estimate of what a sustainable repayment Ms P might have been required to 
make on this borrowing, would have been around £100, which means she would already be 
left with no money to cover her car insurance, tax, maintenance and fuel. And no money 
would be left to spend on other essential day to day expenses like food, clothing and shelter.
Taking everything into consideration, had BMW Financial done more to establish Ms Ps
financial circumstances by carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks, I do not think 
they would have lent to her. From the above it is clear that BMW Financial hire purchase 
agreement was not affordable, and Ms P could not sustainably repay this borrowing without 
relying on borrowing or on family for help. 
Did BMW Financial act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think BMW Financial acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
some other way.
Putting things right
I do not think that Ms P should have been given this credit agreement, so I think the position 
needs to change to one where the agreement would have been never entered into in the first 
place. So, I think the credit agreement should be ended with nothing further to pay. 
However, Ms P did have use of the car, so I think it is fair she pays for that use. But I am not persuaded that monthly repayments from the credit agreement, of approximately £241 a 
month, is a fair reflection of what a fair usage would be. I say this because a proportion of 
that repayment went towards repaying interest. Having said that, there is not an exact 
formula for how to calculate what a fair monthly repayment might be. So, in deciding what is 
fair and reasonable Ive taken into account the amount of interest charged on the agreement, 
Ms Ps overall usage of the car (including the mileage covered), and what her likely costs to 
stay mobile would have been if she had not entered into this agreement. 
Also, Ive considered the model of the car, the fact that it was brand new, and the fact that, 
due to the amount of deposit paid, repayments for this type of car are less than what we 
would usually see. Considering all of this, I think it is fair that BMW Financial can keep the 
payments Ms P has already made, but they should refund Ms P her £5,450 deposit in full 
plus add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
In addition, considering that I do not think that Ms P should have been given this credit 
agreement, I think that it would not be fair or accurate to record any adverse information on 
her credit file. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint and direct BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited to:
1. End the finance agreement with nothing further to pay, and collect the car at no 
cost to Ms P.
2. Refund the £5,450 deposit.
3. Add 8% simple interest per year to point 2 above, from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ps credit file in relation
to this credit agreement.
If BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest 
element of my award, it should provide Ms P with a certificate showing how much they have 
taken off so she can reclaim that amount, if she is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman