DRN-4175821
The complaint
Mr L complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a personal pension plan.
AJH Financial Services Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to AJH.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ls employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ls employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr L was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security of 
his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was referred to AJH which is responsible for 
providing the pension advice. A terms of business agreement was drawn up on 28 
November 2017 between Mr L and AJH when the parties first met. And AJH completed a 
fact-find outlining Mr Ls circumstances on the same day.
Information gathered by AJH about Mr L was broadly as follows:
Mr L was 34 years old, married with two dependent children. He was in good health 
and at that point he had accrued 17 years of pension benefits with the BSPS.
AJH said Mr L owned a home with a mortgage costing around £650 a month which 
had around 20 years left to run.
AJH said Mr L earned around £30,000 per year and Mrs L earned £26,000. They had 
some disposable income available each month.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ls BSPS was £266,788 and the 
normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. AJH said Mr L wanted to retire early, if 
possible, at the age of 60.
Its hard to tell the exact sequence of events since its known that AJH met Mr L in late 
November 2017. It commissioned a transfer analysis which is dated 11 December 2017 and 
it issued Mr L with a certificate evidencing it had provided regulated financial advice, dated 
28 December 2017. Ive also seen a BSPS discharge form indicating Mr L was leaving the 
scheme to transfer to a personal pension arrangement which is dated 29 December 2017. 
Ive also seen an application to transfer which shows AJH acting as Mr Ls financial advisers 
for this transfer. 
However, Ive noted the financial profile report (FPR), a type of suitability report containing 
AJHs recommendation), formally setting out the financial advice, is dated 25 January 2018. 
So, its unclear to me why the FPR would be issued after all the other documentation, 
particularly those which imply Mr Ls transfer-out was going ahead and that AJH were 
advising him in this transfer. Id have expected, for example, that the normal course of 
advice like this would see the recommendation made first  so Mr L could digest it and 
consider what to do  with the discharge form and a certificate of advice being issued 
thereafter.
I therefore think its helpful here to bear in mind that AJHs relationship with Mr L  in as far 
as it related to potentially transferring out of the BSPS - lasted over a period of a few 
months. It began before the deadlines Ive referred to above, and as I know AJH was also 
advising colleagues of Mr L at the same time, I think AJH would have been monitoring the 
events concerning the BSPS very closely. Their relationship continued thereafter with AJH 
acting as Mr Ls financial adviser which included monitoring his transferred funds. 
Mr L first complained to AJH in 2021 about the transfer being unsuitable. He later referred 
his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said it 
should be upheld. In response, AJH said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on 
the financial objectives Mr L had at the time. 
I issued a provisional decision (PD) about this case in February 2023 in which I invited the 
parties to submit anything new they wanted me to consider. In the meantime, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) consulted on a redress calculator to ensure fairness for those who 
had complaints upheld. Mr L responded to my PD but didnt have anything else he wanted to 
add. AJH responded and Ill pick up some of its themes in the course of the decision, below. 
But essentially, AJHs response contained nothing new. It merely repeated its view that the 
transfer was suitable for a number of reasons, all of which Id already comprehensively 
explained in my PD.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of AJH's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Ive also comprehensively considered all AJHs responses to the complaint, including (as Id 
said in my PD) those outlined in a letter from AJHs representative, on 23 September 2022. 
And Ive reconsidered everything in the light of my PD and replies to it. Whilst Ive 
considered everything thats been said with great care, Ive rightly focussed more on the 
issues which affect the outcome of the complaint. 
I have further considered that the regulator, the FCA, states in COBS 19.1.6 that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, AJH should have 
only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ls best 
interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ls best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding Mr Ls complaint in full. 
Circumstances of the time
Before I go into detail about what I think about this case, Im going to deal with the timeline of 
events. AJHs representative has implied there was so little known about the future for BSPS 
at the time this advice was given  and that no-one could be sure BSPS2 was even going 
ahead.
But I dont agree with this. Weve seen many similar complaints to this one and so weve 
learned a great deal about what was happening at the time. We know, for example, that on 
11 August 2017, Mr Ls employer confirmed the terms of an agreement with the pensions 
regulator about the next steps for separating the BSPS from the company. This included a 
lump sum payment into the pension fund and the announcement included confirmation that 
agreement had also been reached about the sponsorship, by Mr Ls employer, of the 
BSPS2. Then in late August 2017, an important update was issued in respect of BSPS 
transfer values. This explained that the expected lump sum payment into the BSPS by the 
employer was likely to result in an improvement to transfer values. And for those with 
unexpired transfer valuations, as in this case, updated valuations would be issued around 
October 2017 and guaranteed until at least December 2017.
On 11 September 2017 there was a further announcement, confirming the agreed payment 
had been made into the BSPS by the employer and the separation of the BSPS from the 
company had been completed. This set out that members would have to make a choice 
between staying in the BSPS or moving to the BSPS2 and it explained that personalised information and illustrations would be provided in October 2017 to assist with that choice. 
Members would have until December 2017 to decide. 
In short, I think there was much more information available at the time AJH provided its 
advice than it now claims. Even in its letter of 23 September 2022 I can see AJH itself 
quotes aspects of the new scheme that were known, so I think AJH had enough information 
to give proper advice to Mr L.
Financial viability 
AJH referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how 
likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. 
AJH compared transferring against what was known about the BSPS2. It said the critical 
yields for retiring at the NRA of 65 were 5.8% if taking a full pension without a tax-free lump 
sum, and 5.2% if eventually taking a reduced pension together with a tax-free lump sum. 
And for early retirement, at the age of 60, the critical yields were 6.1% and 5.5% 
respectively. AJH said reaching the critical yield levels of growth was achievable, but I 
havent seen clear evidence to support this. 
I say this because the advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final 
Guidance FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period just before 1 October 2017 
and was only 4.7% per year for 30 years to retirement (age 65), which is below the critical 
yield figures Ive referred to above. The discount rate for retiring at 60 was 4.6%. So, the 
discount rates infer that reaching the yields above would be more unlikely than likely. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had remained unchanged since 
2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 
5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
AJH categorised Mr L as having an attitude to risk (ATR) of high medium. But I still dont 
think this merits it saying he could grow his funds more outside the scheme to an extent that 
made transferring worthwhile. The regulators middle rate here was still not above any of the 
critical yields  and even if I were to assume a slightly higher growth than the regulators 
middle projections, we know that the charges and fees associated with a personal pension 
arrangement would have acted as a drag on growth. Mr L would also be taking on 
investment risk that he didnt currently have with the DB scheme.
The FPR itself referred to a mid-growth rate for the proposed transferred funds as being 
3.8%. The transfer analysis refers to the same rate. So, taking account of everything Ive 
seen, I dont think anything substantiates that growth rates exceeding the critical yields set 
out above were likely. In my view, there would be little point in transferring away from a DB scheme from a financial comparison perspective only to achieve retirement benefits of a 
lower value to those which Mr L already had.
In its response to my PD, AJH says that we now know the actual growth outcome has been 
higher. It said, the annual growth of the plan since inception is noted as 4.9% pa and 4.3% 
during the past year. It should be noted that this growth has been achieved during the most 
unprecedented economic times in our history. For the outcome of this complaint, Im afraid 
Ive found this an unpersuasive argument. On one hand it is merely using the benefit of 
hindsight instead of looking at what the adviser should have considered realistic at the time. 
On the other hand, these outcomes, even if accurate, are still below the critical yield rates 
and they imply therefore that Mr L has lost out as a result of transferring.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, AJH also made mention of the PPF, a type of 
compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the sponsoring 
employer becomes insolvent. AJH said the critical yield to match the benefits available 
through the PPF were slightly lower than the others. But these yields related to the reduced 
benefits available with the PPF and I dont think if advised Mr L would have wanted to 
transfer to this scheme  AJH itself said this in its final response letter to our Service. 
Ive noted that AJH also presented Mr L with certain scenarios where transferring out his 
pension to a personal arrangement could apparently enable him to draw a pension well into 
his old age. However, Ive looked at the examples given and I note that some of these 
amounts run out of funds before his average life expectancy age. And if remaining with a DB 
scheme such as BSPS2, the pension would last for all Mr Ls life. But more so, these 
examples werent comparing like with like as they lacked a direct compatibility with the DB 
scheme Mr L would be giving up. So the guarantees and benefits associated with BSPS2 
were not replicated in the income models Mr L was shown.
What Ive seen therefore shows Mr L would most likely receive lower financial benefits at 
retirement if he transferred out. However, to be clear, AJHs recommendation that he should 
transfer out to a personal pension was not predicated on the financial comparisons with his 
current scheme alone. Rather, AJH said Mr L had different reasons to transfer away, so Ive 
thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable 
for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and other needs
AJH recommended a transfer to a personal pension based on what it said were Mr Ls wider 
objectives. The FPR listed a number of areas where it promoted transferring for different 
reasons. Ive summarised the following themes, as supporting the recommendation to 
transfer away:
The ability to retire early. 
More flexibility. AJH said you would prefer the increased flexibility in relation to when 
and how your benefits are accessed.
AJH said Mr L wanted his wife and children to benefit in the event of his death and 
that a personal pension was more beneficial in this regard.
The future of the BSPS was a concern and Mr L didnt want to enter the PPF.
AJH also said, This recommendation also benefits you as:You are able to access up to the maximum 25% Tax Free Cash element of your 
pension benefits without taking any income.
When taking benefits there are no restrictions on the amount of money you can 
withdraw at any one time.
You can invest in a wide range of investment funds that have the potential for growth 
over the longer term.
The death benefits are completely tax free before the age of 75 when paid to your 
beneficiaries and only taxable at their marginal rate of tax after 75.
You are to be able to vary the underlying funds and risks, including the use of a cash 
fund within the pension to reflect any changes in your personal circumstances. 
If you wish, you are able to access your benefits early without the need to consider 
early penalty factors. 
So, it seems the supporting reasons that AJH recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr L. I have therefore considered all 
these issues in turn. 
Retiring early / taking tax-free cash
AJH mentioned in various documents from the time of the advice that Mr L had said he 
wanted to retire early, potentially at the age of 60. Ive also noted AJHs representative 
makes some assertions about why Mr L would be likely to need to retire early, basically 
because of the heavy industry he worked in. However, in my view these are somewhat 
baseless comments, unsubstantiated by any analysis or data. I said the comments were 
unsubstantiated when I issued my PD. But AJH mentioned this apparent need to retire early 
again, after I issued my PD. Again however, it failed to elaborate  its case here is basically 
that it knows of some other clients who found working in heavy industry to be the cause of 
health problems in later life. It therefore makes the connection that retiring early is 
necessary. However, I continue to find these comments baseless and unsupported and 
there is no credible case for saying Mr L, a 34-year-old, would need to retire early.
Nevertheless, I certainly dont doubt that Mr L might have genuinely hoped to retire early. 
But Ive seen nothing that shows this was anything more than something he aspired to do at 
that stage, as opposed to being part of a formulated plan. I say this because Mr L was only 
34 years old at the time and he was in good health. And in these circumstances its simply 
not credible that he had any concrete plans for retirement at that point. 
AJH also promoted to Mr L that he could access tax-free cash if he transferred to a personal 
pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and then use 
the remaining funds more flexibly. Its often the case that more tax-free cash can be 
accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because 
the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But for Mr L, all this 
was decades away and AJH should have been telling Mr L at the time that extra tax-free 
lump sums being removed from a personal pension, potentially from his late fifties in his 
case, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years 
would obviously decrease. In its reply to my PD, AJH says he was told about these things, 
but of course, we know that AJH still recommended the transfer, nonetheless.
Even if I were to consider the highly unlikely scenario that Mr Ls retirement plans were more 
fixed than the mere aspirations set out by AJH - and as a 34-year-old man with a mortgage and dependent children, he really did believe he could plan to retire early - I think AJH 
should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being a member of the 
BSPS2, for example. Early retirement under the BSPS2, or indeed the PPF, would still have 
been an option for Mr L, although this would have meant Mr Ls pension benefits would have 
been somewhat different due to him accessing the pension earlier and for longer. But I think 
this was discounted by AJH as Ive seen no evidence it was realistically discussed with a 
view to assessing whether it was more in Mr Ls best interests. The advice simply focussed 
on him transferring away completely and referred to early retirement under the DB scheme 
as penalties.
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr L faced, including 
opting for the BSPS2. 
Flexibility
I cant see that Mr L could yet be said to require flexibility in retirement in the way AJH 
suggested. AJH set out the estimated annual pension upon his NRA which Mr L would get. 
As a DB pension this was guaranteed and index linked (with certain restrictions). 
However, as he was so young, it wasnt really possible to say what Mr Ls financial and 
income needs were likely to be in retirement. And I havent seen anything to persuade me 
that Mr L wouldnt have been able to meet his likely retirement income needs by accessing 
his DB pension instead of transferring out to a personal pension plan. This is because, as 
well as retirement being a long time away, we know Mr L had already joined his employers 
new defined contribution (DC) scheme and could have been making contributions to it for 
up to thirty years more, until he retired. Mr Ls contributions to this second pension were 
being added to by his employer and I think theres every reason to say that by retirement  
whenever it came  there would have been a substantial amount in this DC pension to 
complement his deferred DB scheme (in BSPS2). 
I think therefore, that by retirement, Mr L could have been in a good position if hed 
transferred to the BSPS2. On one hand hed have had a long-standing DB pension, but one 
with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the other hand, 
hed have built up a substantial DC pension over many years, which, if he later found he did 
require flexibility, this pension could have provided it.
I have therefore considered what AJH said about retiring early and the potential flexibility 
brought about by transferring to a personal plan: it said this would include how funds were 
invested, the level of income he could withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the 
tax-free lump sum element. 
However, I dont think recommending a transfer-out based on these reasons was suitable 
because so little was known about what his retirement would look like. Ive also seen nothing 
which shows Mr L had either the desire or capacity to exercise personal control over his 
pension. Mr Ls previous exposure to investing was not really known and he had no such 
investments at the time. And to grow the transferred funds in the way AJH implied he could, 
a higher degree of risk exposure would have been required.
So, I think Mr Ls circumstances were much more aligned to him transferring to BSPS2 and 
retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so, and then drawing a DB pension. 
Because he also had a second, DC pension, this supported that strategy, in my view. 
I therefore think the much more suitable option was for Mr L to access his DB pension in the 
way it was originally intended.Death benefits 
AJH says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr L died. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mr L. But 
whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr L might have thought 
it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
I also think saying Mr Ls death benefits would improve in a personal pension because he 
could pass over all his funds needed putting into context. Only in his early thirties and in 
good health, he and his wife had a family. In my view, the likely spouse death benefits 
attached to the new DB scheme were therefore very relevant to Mr L and from what Ive 
seen, the death benefits were substantially underplayed. 
The spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 were useful to Mrs L if Mr L predeceased her. 
As a father, I think the child specific benefits would also have been meaningful to Mr L 
because his children would be able to benefit from the DB scheme up until they left full-time 
education; and for them this was still some time away. These were guaranteed benefits and 
they escalated  they were not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was. I therefore dont think AJH made the value of 
this benefit clear enough. 
In any event, there may not have been a large sum left in a personal pension upon Mr Ls 
passing, particularly if he lived a long life. The main purpose of a pension is to provide 
retirement income. AJH should therefore not have encouraged Mr L to prioritise the potential 
for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
It also doesnt appear that AJH took into account the fact that Mr L could have nominated 
someone else close to him as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, 
to this end, Mr L had already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
I note life insurance was discussed in this case. At 34 years old, this would have been a 
reasonably affordable product if Mr L really did want to leave a legacy for someone such as 
a partner or children. A form of term insurance could have been considered, as opposed to 
a whole life policy which would be much more expensive.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr L. I think this objective was 
no more than a generic comment and not meaningful to Mr Ls situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr L, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and AJH 
said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and AJH said 
he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr L was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it was AJHs obligation to give Mr L an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mr Ls concerns about his scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that AJH should 
have reassured Mr L that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr L through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
reasonable portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his ATR and the effect of pension 
charges and fees in a new personal pension. And although the increases in payment in the 
PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. 
So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to AJHs recommendation to Mr L to 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Other issues
I noted a persistent theme in the documents of Mr Ls apparent desire to grow his pension 
and he selected this objective on one of AJHs forms. Although AJH portrays this as a 
rationale for transferring, this was no more than a stock objective with no real meaning, in 
my view. As our investigator pointed out, if asked, just about everyone would say they 
wanted to do this. 
Ive also noted that AJH says Mr L came to it with fixed views about transferring away. To 
me, this just demonstrates AJHs weakness here  it was AJH which was the regulated 
financial adviser and it was being paid for advice. So AJHs job wasnt simply to transact 
what Mr L might have thought he wanted; its job was to really understand his circumstances 
and give advice which was in his best interests.
In a similar way, AJH implies now that Mr L had a preference for potentially going into the 
PPF at some point. Long after the deadlines wed set for responses, it says his Time to 
Choose document says hed consider moving to the PPF rather than BSPS2. AJH also 
blames Mr Ls representative for not supplying the Time to Choose document until now.
To be clear however, theres no doubt here that AJH advised Mr L. In that context, Id have 
expected it to acquire all the relevant documents from the time before issuing its advice. AJH 
should also know that all relevant documents from these advice sessions should be retained. 
Again, its also clear enough that Mr L only subsequently transferred as a result of AJHs 
specific advice. Whether or not he thought, at some point, that the PPF was worth 
considering isnt therefore relevant. Thats because Ive seen clear enough evidence that 
AJH acted as his adviser and the subsequent decision to transfer away was based on what 
AJH advised Mr L to do.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr L. But 
ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr L was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr L was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And I dont 
think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh 
this. I think AJH ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for this 
reason, particularly as it meant hed be worse off in retirement.So, I dont think it was in Mr Ls best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I think it was clear to all parties that BSPS2 was likely to be going ahead. Mr L still had 
many years before he intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in his 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would have faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By 
opting into the BSPS2, Mr L would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. As he was married, then Mr Ls wifes pension 
would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no 
lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr L chose to do so). The annual indexation of his 
pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think AJH should have advised Mr L to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr L would have transferred 
to a personal pension in any event. I accept that AJH disclosed some of the risks of 
transferring to Mr L, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately it 
advised Mr L to transfer out, and I think Mr L relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr L would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against AJHs advice if it had been different. I say this because this pension accounted for 
almost all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if AJH had provided him with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best 
interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ls concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if AJH had explained Mr L was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income 
needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have carried 
significant weight.
In light of the above, I think AJH should compensate Mr L for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr L would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with it to join the 
BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
AJH must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
AJH should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr L and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation.For clarity, Mr L has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, AJH should:
calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr L accepts AJHs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr L for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ls end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, AJH may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ls likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Distress and inconvenience
Ive considered the impact on Mr L of the unsuitable advice and transfer. Our investigator 
recommended that a sum of £250 should be paid to Mr L by AJH for what he referred to as 
the trouble and upset caused by this unsuitable transfer. Ive taken into consideration Mr Ls 
age and circumstances and also that by retirement this DB pension would still have been a 
reasonable part of his overall pension entitlement, So I think the thought of losing benefits 
would have negatively impacted Mr L. I therefore agree that AJH should also pay Mr L £250 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice which has likely had an 
impact on his retirement planning.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint.I now direct AJH Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr L the compensation amount as set out in 
the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount does not 
exceed £160,000, I would additionally require AJH Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr L any 
interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already 
exceeds £160,000, I would only require AJH Financial Services Ltd to pay Mr L any interest 
as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
AJH Financial Services Ltd pays Mr L the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr L.
If Mr L accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on AJH Financial 
Services Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman