DRN-3938459
The complaint
Ms D complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined her pet insurance claim.
What happened
In August 2022 Ms Ds dog began yelping. She took him to a vet, who said he had signs of 
neck/spinal pain. The vet arranged blood and urine tests before prescribing medication for 
his pain. Following the tests, the dog was also diagnosed with a kidney disease called 
protein losing nephropathy or PLN. Ms D made a claim to UKI for both issues.
UKI paid the claim for the dogs neck/spinal pain. But it said the dogs medical records 
showed that he had had signs and symptoms of kidney disease in July and August 2020, 
which was before Ms D had taken out the policy in January 2022. UKI said that the kidney 
disease was pre-existing and, as such, the claim was not covered under the policys terms. 
Ms D complained to UKI. She said that in 2020 her dog had been wetting his bed and 
drinking more. She took him to her previous vet. She followed the vets advice to change her 
dogs raw food diet, which she did for a few weeks and everything cleared up. She was told 
no further action was required. She provided a letter of support from the vet practice. 
UKIs own vet nurse looked at the dogs medical records and vets statement. Having done 
so, her professional opinion was that the dog had first show signs of PLN in 2020. UKI said 
that Ms D had acknowledged when making her claim that the dog had had symptoms in 
2020. Also, UKI said the vet had advised Ms D to put her dog on a renal (kidney) supporting 
diet. So UKI did not change its claim decision. It paid Ms D £100 compensation for the delay 
in its complaint handling. 
Ms D came to us. She said her dog had not been diagnosed with the kidney disease until 
2022 and before that she did not think her dog had any illness or condition. She said she 
had taken a new policy with UKI each year to take advantage of new customer discounts 
and thought that, as such, she had continuing cover with UKI on the same policy terms. 
Our Investigator looked into Ms Ds complaint. Our Investigator upheld the complaint about 
the PLN claim because, in her view, the vet evidence did not support that the dog had a    
pre-existing condition. In any event, Ms D was not aware her dog had a condition for which 
she might reasonably make a claim. 
Our Investigator explained that because Ms D had taken out a new policy with UKI each 
year she did not, in fact, have continuous cover. And our Investigator thought that £100 
compensation for the complaint handling delay was fair.
Ms D accepted our Investigators findings. UKI did not. It sent more evidence from its vet 
nurse together with independent veterinary studies to support her view that Ms Ds dog had 
a pre-existing condition. Our Investigator explained why she still did not agree with UKI. As 
an agreement could not be reached the complaint has been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold Ms Ds complaint about the claim for her dogs kidney disease. I will explain why 
and in doing so I will focus on what I consider are the central issues. 
In its policy UKI defines a pre-existing condition as Any condition, injury or illness that:
Has happened or has shown early signs or symptoms; or
Has the same diagnosis or signs and/or symptoms as a condition your pet has 
already had; or 
Is caused by, relates to, or results from, an injury, illness or condition your pet 
had, before your pet was covered by this insurance.
No matter where the injury, illness or signs are noticed or happen in, or on, your pets 
body.
I have noted and taken into account the above policy terms and conditions. But I can step 
outside the strict policy terms when reviewing whether the insurer has acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
We generally consider that its only fair and reasonable for an insurer to decline a claim due 
to a pre-existing condition if before the consumer bought the policy, they knew there was 
something wrong with their pet, which could likely lead to some investigation or treatment. 
Ms D did not have continuous cover having chosen to take out a new policy each year. Ive 
noted UKIs comment about this, and that it thinks Ms Ds view that she had continuous 
cover affected her view about the pet insurance cover she held. But this doesnt affect my 
decision as it is the consumers knowledge of their dogs health that is important. So I need 
to consider whether UKI fairly declined her claim under the policy she took out with UKI in 
January 2022. 
Ms D had taken her dog to the vet in July 2020 because he was wetting the bed (dysuria) 
and was very thirsty (polydipsia) in the morning. Based on her discussions with the vet, she 
says she thought the problem with protein in her dogs urine was due to her dogs raw food 
(high protein) diet. She thought the renal diet was recommended by the vet as it was a low 
protein diet. And after following the diet for a few weeks the symptoms of dysuria and 
polydipsia resolved. 
I think Ms Ds evidence is supported by the veterinary evidence. Her original vets practice 
says that the symptoms and results reported in 2020 are not likely to be linked to the 2022 
results. Her vets review of the notes is that Ms D was told to change the dogs diet because 
of raised protein level shown by the blood tests and that the results were thought to be due 
to the dogs diet. Ive not seen any evidence to show that the vet told Ms D that her dog had 
a kidney problem. 
Ms D says the problem resolved and this is supported by the clinical record where Ms D said 
the symptoms were resolving by August 2020. The evidence indicates that Ms D did not 
have any concerns about her dogs health, having been advised to monitor him. There are 
no more appointments or discussions about the symptoms Ms D had reported and she said 
she had no concerns during the routine vaccination appointment in March 2021. The vet also 
does not appear to have been concerned given no repeat blood or urine tests were 
recommended. Ms Ds vets evidence is that it is unlikely there had been any kidney compromise, as the kidneys cannot repair themselves and damage once done is 
irreversible. 
I have carefully considered the evidence of UKIs vet nurse, and the additional studies to 
which she has referred. In summary, the vet nurse has explained why she thinks it is more 
likely than not that the results of the 2020 urine and blood tests suggest early signs of PLN. 
Having listened to the vet nurses call with the vet from the first vet practice, I note that 
Ms Ds vet did not agree with UKIs vet nurses opinion. The vet Ms D consulted in 2022 told 
UKIs vet nurse that she could not comment on any advice given to Ms D before she had 
brought her dog to their practice. 
It is possible that the dog had symptoms of PLN in 2020 but, on balance, I dont think the 
weight of veterinary evidence supports that. 
But importantly, even if I were persuaded that the 2020 signs and symptoms were of PLN, 
I dont think Ms D was aware when taking out the policy in January 2022 that anything was 
wrong with her dog which would likely lead to an investigation or treatment. She believed her 
dog was well and that is supported by the vets notes. In August 2022 she sought urgent vet 
treatment as her dog was yelping. The diagnosis of PLN was incidental. 
UKI says that the vet in 2022 ordered the blood and urine tests because of the 2020 test 
results (having seen the previous vets notes). That is the case, and Ms D accepts she was 
told about increased protein levels. She thought this was due to his diet. She changed his 
diet and reported to the vet that the symptoms improved after a few weeks. 
Ms D says that she then reverted to the dogs usual raw food diet having thought the 2020 
issue had resolved. This is supported by the vets notes which show that she was feeding 
her dog a raw food diet at the time of the 2022 diagnosis. Ms D was advised in 2022 that her 
dog have a diet change to a renal diet. So I dont agree with UKI that the evidence supports 
that she must have known of kidney issues because of an ongoing renal diet.  
Having considered all the evidence, I dont think UKI reached a fair and reasonable decision 
to decline the claim for PLN. I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for UKI to pay Ms Ds 
claim as set out below.
For completeness I should say that I consider the £100 UKI paid to Ms D for its delay in 
investigating the claim complaint was fair. 
Putting things right
I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Pay Ms Ds claim for the PLN, subject to any applicable excess and policy limit; and 
Pay interest on the resulting claim payment at the simple rate of 8% per year from 
the date Ms D paid the vets fees until the date of settlement. 
If UKI considers it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest payment, it should let Ms D know how much its taken off. If requested, it should also 
provide her with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so that she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. 
I require U K Insurance Limited to take the steps set out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman