DRN-4144942
The complaint
Mr N complains that he hasnt been given the interest rate he agreed to as part of his 
product switch with Aldermore Bank Plc. Hes also unhappy with delays to the product switch 
and that hes received conflicting information about the new mortgage terms.
What happened
Mr N had an existing commercial mortgage with Aldermore. In November 2021 he contacted 
Aldermore asking for a more competitive interest rate. Aldermore offered Mr N a bespoke 
product described as CM variable 3.75% subject to the formal approval of its credit team.
Through the course of further emails, Aldermore shared information about the product 
including the term of the mortgage and applicable early repayment charges (ERC). Mr N 
confirmed he wanted to progress with this in December 2021.
When Mr N asked for documentation such as the keys facts and mortgage illustration, there 
was some delay in Aldermore providing this. And when it did, the figures werent accurate  
Aldermore says this was due to the bespoke nature of the product and that any automated 
letters would be affected.
In January 2022 Aldermore informed Mr N that the property would need to be re-valued 
before it could formally approve the product switch. Arranging this took some time, with Mr N 
agreeing to the surveyor in early March 2022 and the valuation review taking place in 
April 2022. The mortgage product switch finally took place on 3 May 2022.
Mr N complained that he was sent inaccurate information, there were delays to the product 
switch, and about the interest rate applied. He says the product switch shouldve taken place 
in January 2022 and the applicable interest rate in May 2022 (when the switch did occur) 
should have been 3.75%.
Aldermore accepted there had been issues with it providing accurate documentation and 
letters in a timely manner and offered Mr N £600 compensation in total. But it said Mr N had 
been provided with the product he agreed to.
When Mr N complained to our service the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary they thought Mr N had been provided with the product he agreed to and that the 
compensation Aldermore had offered was fair in the circumstances.
Mr N didnt agree, he said the product he agreed to had an interest rate of 3.75% and that he 
was told this already included the Bank of England base rate (the base rate), but the 
interest rate applied to his mortgage in May 2022 was around 5%. He added that Aldermore 
has continued to provide him with inaccurate information which is stressful.
The matter was passed to me for a decision by an ombudsman, and I asked for some further 
information. Aldermore provided a breakdown of what interest rate it had applied to Mr Ns 
account - this was a margin of 3.75% above the base rate.
Mr N also confirmed that he had understood the interest rate was variable and that it could 
vary with the base rate, but that hed understood it would start at 3.75%.
Mr N has since added that hes received a letter saying an ERC is applicable to his 
mortgage product until May 2027 which he says isnt what was agreed. In March 2023 
Aldermore offered Mr N a further £50 compensation for this error and confirmed he has an 
ERC applicable until 2 May 2025. Again, it explained its automated letters are incorrect 
because Mr N has a bespoke product which doesnt exist on its system.
I issued my provisional decision on 21 April 2023 explaining why I intended to uphold the 
complaint. In summary I said that this was essentially a bespoke unregulated commercial 
mortgage, the terms of which were negotiated by email, and therefore what was agreed in 
these emails formed the basis of the mortgage contract. I concluded that while both parties 
may have intended something different, I thought the parties had agreed to a margin of 
3.65% above the base rate. This accounted for the base rate of 0.1% at the time being 
included in the interest rate quoted. I also explained why I thought the compensation offered 
to Mr N in relation to customer service was fair in the circumstances.
Aldermore accepted my provisional findings. However, Mr N didnt agree - he said he still 
thought the interest rate on his account in May 2022 should have been 3.75% including the 
base rate because Aldermore hadnt informed him at any point that the interest rate would 
be different before the product switch. He also provided new evidence - two emails, one from 
10 February 2022 where Aldermore wrote the rate is 3.75%, which includes the BBR and 
on 19 July 2022 where Aldermore confirmed the applicable interest rate was 3.75% in 
May 2022.
Upon reviewing this new evidence, I wrote to both parties again explaining that this changed 
my findings. I explained to Aldermore that its email on 10 February 2022 re-confirmed the 
applicable interest rate was 3.75%, which includes the BBR". And that as the base rate had 
changed twice since the negotiations in November 2021, this suggested 3.75% was the 
applicable interest rate rather than there being a margin. I asked both parties to comment on 
my amended intended outcome that Aldermore should backdate Mr Ns interest rate to 
3.75% from 3 May 2022. I also said that it was reasonable for Aldermore to have gone on to 
vary the interest rate to reflect changes to the base rate.
Aldermore didnt respond by the deadline provided. Mr N accepted how I intended to put 
matters right in relation to his mortgage account, but he asked that I increase the 
compensation on the basis that Aldermore had continued to provide poor customer service 
by sending him inaccurate information and not updating his communication details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Aldermore has explained that the mortgage terms it offered to Mr N were bespoke. This 
means that the product doesnt exist on its systems  it had to be entered manually to 
complete on the mortgage.
This is an unregulated commercial mortgage  the terms of which were negotiated between 
Mr N and Aldermore during their emails in November and December 2021. With further 
emails in February 2022 confirming the applicable interest rate, arrangement fee and 
maximum mortgage term. Theres clearly been some confusion about what both parties thought the terms of the mortgage would be. So, Ive looked at these emails to determine 
what was agreed.
The terms of the mortgage product
Mr N has explained how he thought the product would operate  he expected the mortgage 
interest rate to be 3.75% including the base rate when it began (in May 2022). Hes had a 
variable rate product before and understood the interest rate could change.
Aldermore says the product was a variable rate product 3.75% and appears to have applied 
this as a margin above the base rate. I.e. when the base rate was 0.75% on 3 May 2022, it 
applied an interest rate of 4.5%. When the base rate increased by 0.25% on 5 May 2022, 
Aldermore increased the interest rate on Mr Ns mortgage (with notice) by the same amount, 
and so on.
I think the emails between Mr N and Aldermore in November / December 2021 and 
February 2022 are material here as they show them negotiating the terms of the mortgage. 
Below is a summary of their emails:
18 November 2021: Mr N informed Aldermore that hed received two mortgage offers 
with an interest rate of 3.5% above the base rate. Mr N says he could make capital 
repayments if Aldermore could match this. On the same day Aldermore 
acknowledged this margin of 3.5% and says its unlikely it will be able to match it. It 
also says it will establish what the most competitive margin we could offer you 
would be.
23 November 2021: Aldermore described the lowest interest rate it could offer as an 
Initial rate (gross) 3.75% CM Variable and said beneath this that the Bank of 
England Base rate 0.15%.
Mr N asks about whether the interest rate(s) include the base rate and on 25 
November 2021 Aldermore says: The CM Variable rate includes BBR, the other 
fixed rates do not.
They then discuss the ERC and on 26 November 2021 Aldermore says 
Early Redemption Charges  3.00% in Year 1, 2.50% in Year 2 and 1% in Year 3. 
As usual, up to 10% of the outstanding balance can be repaid in any 12-month period 
without incurring an early redemption charge.
6 December 2021: Aldermore confirmed the Arrangement fee is 1.25%.
8 December 2021: Mr N confirmed he wanted to proceed with the CM Variable 
3.75% product for a term of 15 years.
10 February 2022: Aldermore provided Mr N with an illustration (dated 
9 February 2022), however the content of the email contradicts this document. The 
illustration says (among other things) that the interest rate is Variable rate of 3.75% 
over BBR of 0.5% with an arrangement fee of 1.5%. Whereas the body of the email 
says that the rate is 3.75%, which includes the BBR and the arrangement fee is 
1.25%, not 1.5%. 
14 February 2022: Aldermore re-confirmed the arrangement fee would be 1.25% and 
that the monthly payment would be different to the illustration document. It was 
explained that due to the nature of the bespoke offer the illustration document couldnt be amended.
Ive needed to look at this situation and the emails as a whole to take a view on whats been 
agreed as it appears Mr N and Aldermore were talking at cross purposes.
In these emails, Mr N and Aldermore are initially discussing base rate tracker products with 
Mr Ns comparators being tracker products with a margin.
Aldermore has said in the emails that the interest rate includes the BOE base rate and refers 
to the interest rate as gross, so I think it would be fair to conclude the interest rate quoted of 
3.75% included the base rate on that day, rather than being in addition to it.
I initially thought this ought to be taken in the context of discussing the margin, but now Mr N 
has provided the emails from February 2022 Ive reached a different conclusion. I can see in 
its email on 10 February 2022, Aldermore confirmed that the interest rate was still 3.75% 
despite there being two base rate increases since the negotiation in November 2021 (on 
16 December 2021 and 3 February 2022). Aldermore also continued to use the language 
that the base rate was included and specifically says that nothing has changed since we 
previously discussed terms with you. If a margin were agreed, then this margin would have 
changed when the base rate did, as the rate Aldermore quoted remained the same. But its 
clear neither party thinks the agreement has changed. 
So, I dont think a margin is agreed, rather Ive concluded that Mr N and Aldermore have 
agreed a variable interest rate which starts at 3.75%. And as Aldermore didnt give Mr N any 
notice before the product switch that its variable interest rate had changed, I think it should 
have applied a rate of 3.75% from 3 May 2022.
In relation to the illustration document dated 9 February 2022  I dont think its appropriate 
to give weight to how the interest rate is described given that Aldermore has confirmed the 
document has inaccuracies due to it being unable to amend the illustration to reflect the 
bespoke product its offering Mr N. So, Ive given more weight to how Aldermore has 
described the product in its emails.
I understand this may not have been what Aldermore intended to offer but given that this 
was a negotiation rather than sharing the details of an existing product, I think what it wrote 
to Mr N forms the basis of the mortgage contract. And therefore, that these are the terms 
applicable to Mr Ns mortgage.
As the product is referred to as a variable rate, I think theres an implied term that 
Aldermore can vary the rate. However, I havent been provided with the applicable terms 
setting out the circumstances in which Aldermore can do so. To date, Aldermore has only 
varied the interest rate to reflect changes in the base rate. I think this is a legitimate reason 
to vary the interest rate as it reflects changes to Aldermores own underlying costs. Mr N has 
also accepted he understood the rate could vary with the base rate.
For clarity, I think the terms (explicit and implied) of the contract that have been agreed are 
as follows:
A variable rate starting at 3.75% (which can be varied with reasonable notice to 
reflect legitimate changes to Aldermores underlying costs).
A 15-year term with an applicable ERC (for overpayments above 10% of the 
outstanding balance) until 2 May 2025. As detailed in Aldermores email dated 
26 November 2021.An arrangement fee of 1.25%.
Aldermore has sent Mr N several letters with different terms and interest rates on, some of 
which it accepts are inaccurate and others which it says are correct. As these are post- 
completion and contested by Mr N, I dont think any of these amount to a change to the 
agreed terms of the mortgage.
Mr N has added that he recently took out a business loan to help with his finances due to the 
financial strain the issues with his mortgage have put on him. I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to show that Mr N has incurred the additional costs of a loan as a result of the 
error(s) made by Aldermore so Im not making an award for this.
Customer service and delays
It isnt in dispute that Aldermore has sent inaccurate and conflicting information to Mr N, 
particularly in its automated letters. I agree this has contributed to the confusion it caused to 
Mr N in relation to his understanding of what terms were being applied to his mortgage. This 
has understandably been stressful for him as the interest rate directly affected his monthly 
payment amounts. This led him to spend additional time and effort corresponding with 
Aldermore to clarify and contest the terms of his mortgage and to identify what interest rate 
Aldermore was applying to his mortgage in practice.
Whilst this is a commercial buy to let mortgage, and so the same requirements dont apply in 
terms of the format of documentation as they would in a regulated residential mortgage, 
Aldermore still ought to have set out the key terms clearly as its important for both parties to 
understand what theyre agreeing to.
I dont think Aldermore did enough to make sure the terms of the product were clear or that it 
responded appropriately when Mr N asked for this to be set out for him. For example, 
Aldermore could have sent Mr N a more detailed letter setting out the key elements of the 
mortgage before it began.
Mr N has more recently raised a concern about receiving inaccurate information in relation to 
when an ERC ceases to be applicable to his mortgage. And I understand Aldermore has 
offered him a further £50 compensation to apologise for this. As this stems from the same 
issue  i.e. what the terms of Mr Ns mortgage are, and errors in its automated letters due to 
it being a bespoke product, I think it is something I can consider as part of this complaint. I 
think this is in the interests of bringing this matter to a close for both parties, this isnt 
something either party objected to in response to my provisional decision.
Having considered this matter as a whole  in particular, the lack of clear and consistent 
communication about the terms of Mr Ns mortgage, I think the total offer to date of £650 
compensation is fair in the circumstances. This recognises the repeated errors and 
confusion caused as a result of Aldermores poor communication with Mr N in relation to his 
mortgage over a sustained period. I understand Mr N has referenced the ongoing nature of 
the stress this has caused him and that he has underlying health conditions. It isnt our role 
to penalise businesses, and I think that once Mr N became aware that Aldermores 
automated letters would be inaccurate, the impact on him upon receiving these was lower. 
This doesnt mean I think it was unreasonable of Mr N to still question Aldermore to check 
what the actual position was, but the redress Im awarding already reflects the additional 
costs hes incurred. So, I think £650 is in line with our published award guidelines.
Mr N has also complained of delays to his product switch, he says this meant he had a 
higher interest rate and therefore higher repayments between January and May 2022 as a 
result. Having reviewed this point, I dont think Aldermore need to backdate the product switch to January 2022. This is because Aldermore was entitled to ask for the property to be 
re-valued. The majority of the time taken in relation to arranging the valuation was outside its 
control and having considered the timeline here I dont think Aldermore caused any 
unreasonable delays.
Mr N has recently raised that his communication preferences havent been updated as 
requested, this is a new issue that would need to be raised separately.
Putting things right
Aldermore has in practice applied a margin of 3.75% to Mr Ns mortgage, which means its 
applying an interest rate of 3.75% above the base rate.  As Ive concluded the agreement 
was for the total rate to be 3.75%, Aldermore should backdate the starting interest rate to 
3.75% (rather than 4.5%) from 3 May 2022. 
At each increase that it provided notice of, it should reduce the new interest rate by 0.75% to 
reflect the same increase with a lower starting reference point. For example, when 
Aldermore increased the interest rate by 0.25% on 5 May 2022, it can still do this, but that 
changes the applicable interest rate from 3.75% to 4% rather than to 4.75%.
Aldermore should also reimburse Mr N the difference between what hes paid and should 
have paid, applying a rate of 8% interest on this amount (the overpayments) from the date 
each payment was taken to the date its reimbursed to Mr N.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that Aldermore Bank Plc should do the 
following to put matters right:
1. Apply an interest rate of 3.75% to Mr Ns mortgage from 3 May 2022. 
2. Regarding the variations Mr N has been notified of to date, Aldermore can implement 
the percentage changes as set out in its letters, but these must reflect the lower 
starting interest rate. In practice this means the applicable interest rate will be 0.75% 
lower than in its notice letters / than it has been applying. 
3. Reimburse Mr N the difference between what hes paid Aldermore and should have 
paid to date.
4. Pay Mr N interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on the amount in point 3, from the 
date each payment was taken to the date its reimbursed to Mr N.*
5.  Pay Mr N £650 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
*If Aldermore considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr N how much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman