DRN-3453016
The complaint
Mr C complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined his application to port his mortgage, 
causing him to:
Lose the property he initially intended to purchase.
Miss the nil stamp duty deadline of 30 June 2021.
Rent for two months longer than expected, incurring extra expense.
Mr C also complains that Santander misinformed him, causing him to unnecessarily make a 
10% mortgage repayment to avoid paying a full early redemption charge and losing interest 
that money would otherwise have earned.
What happened
In 2018 Mr C took a mortgage with Santander for approximately £315,000 on a property (Ill 
refer to as property A) which was valued at £375,000. His mortgage was on a five-year 
fixed rate with an early redemption charge (ERC) applying for the fixed rate period.
Mr C decided he wanted to sell property A and called Santander in November 2020 to ask 
about the early repayment charge applicable and about the possibility of porting his existing 
mortgage. He also asked about repaying 10% of the balance that year and 10% in     
January 2021 to reduce the potential ERC. Santander told him he could do that and then 
went on to explain that if the mortgage on the new property was for the same or more an 
ERC wouldnt apply as long as his sale and purchase completed at the same time  or, if 
within three months of each other (five months at that time due to the covid pandemic), the 
ERC would be refunded.
Mr C contacted Santander again on 23 March 2021 having agreed to purchase a new 
property (Ill call that property B). Mr C said he wanted to borrow the same amount as he 
currently owed but the value of property B was less than that of property A. Santander 
explained that, ordinarily it wouldnt have to go through Mr Cs income and affordability. But, 
as he was currently furloughed, his porting application would be subject to a full income and 
affordability assessment.
Mr C applied for the mortgage with Santander, via a broker, on property B on 8 April 2021. 
That application said the purchase price for property B was £325,000 and Mr C wanted a 
mortgage for £262,767. Santanders underwriting notes confirm that application was 
declined on 23 April 2021.
Mr C found another property (Ill call this property C) and applied again to Santander on   
30 April 2021. That application said the property purchase price was £315,000 and he 
wanted a mortgage of £262,767. 
On 17 May 2021 Mr Cs broker was told by Santander that the application had failed. 
Santanders notes suggest that it wasnt comfortable with the sustainability of Mr Cs income 
during the covid pandemic due to the nature of his employment. And that the application 
could not be considered under its more streamlined assessment process because the 
proposed loan to value was increasing from the mortgage on property A. 
Mr Cs broker responded on 18 May 2021 saying Mr C would be happy to borrow an amount 
on property C which would equate to a 75% loan to value. Or he can make an overpayment 
now to bring the loan to value down to 75%. Mr C made that payment and Santander started 
to reassess the application on 21 May 2021.
Mr C made a payment of approximately £248,000 to redeem the mortgage on property A on 
24 May 2021. And Santander confirmed the mortgage had been redeemed in a letter to him 
dated 2 June 2021.
Santanders notes indicate Mr Cs application was being considered on its more streamlined 
assessment process from 1 June 2021. But Santander still had more questions for Mr C 
around current address  given that hed redeemed the mortgage  and information about 
another adult living with him who wouldnt be a party to the mortgage. It asked Mr Cs broker 
for that information on 4 June 2021. Mr Cs broker provided that information the same day 
and said Mr C was still looking for a mortgage of £264,600. Santander queried that amount 
with the broker on 8 June 2021 as that would not have brought the lending down to 75% of 
the new property value and Mr Cs application would not therefore qualify for the more 
streamlined assessment process. On 8 June the broker confirmed Mr C would be happy to 
borrow £235,519 to satisfy the 75% loan to value criteria.
On 18 June 2021 Santander discovered that the tenure of the property was not freehold as 
stated on the application and that resulted in the cancellation of the valuation. Santander 
asked the broker for details of the lease, ground rent and service charge. The broker 
confirmed those details the same day and the application had to be considered again by 
Santanders underwriters. Its notes confirm that Santander was aware of the aim to complete 
by the nil stamp duty deadline and a new valuation instruction was made on 23 June 2021.
A copy of the valuation report confirms the valuation was carried out on 28 June 2021. The 
mortgage offer was produced by Santander and sent to Mr C on the same day. Santanders 
notes indicate that it was to be faxed to Mr Cs solicitor on 29 June 2021.
The purchase of property C completed on 23 July 2021, so missed the nil stamp duty 
deadline. 
Mr C complained to Santander. In its final response letter dated 21 September 2021, 
Santander said it hadnt unfairly declined either application as it hadnt been able to consider 
them under its more streamlined assessment process due to the loan to value increase. And 
it didnt consider that Mr Cs income was sustainable due to him being furloughed. When   
Mr Cs circumstances changed  after his broker appealed the decline regarding property C 
 his application could be considered under the more streamlined assessment process.
Santander said Mr Cs application was agreed on 8 June 2021 but as his broker had made 
an error there was then a delay in the valuation taking place. The mortgage offer was issued 
on 28 June 2021, but Santander didnt receive instructions from Mr Cs solicitors until         
19 July 2021 with a request for completion on 23 July 2021.
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, Mr C asked us to consider his complaint. Mr C says 
his initial enquiry to port his mortgage for the purchase of property B on 23 March 2021 was 
flatly refused due to him being on a flexi-furlough scheme. And up until that point hed been 
under the impression hed be able to port without any trouble, particularly as he was 
considering properties in the region of £100,000 less than his current one. He says he also 
hadnt been told up until that time that working reduced hours would be an issue.Mr C says he was also not made aware at any time that hed have to keep the loan to value 
the same as his previous mortgage. He also says his employer sent a letter to Santander 
confirming he was permanently employed; he was working as and when required and would 
continue to work when government restrictions had been lifted  the letter showed his 
normal salary. And his mortgage broker wasnt given a straight answer about why his 
mortgage application had been declined.
With regard to the over payment Mr C paid on 17 May 2021, he says he felt forced into 
making that payment to reduce his ERC liability. He also says there was a delay in receiving 
the mortgage offer as that was not until 28 June 2021. And Santander never contacted the 
broker to make him aware that the stated tenure of property C was incorrect on the 
application form. He says his only change of circumstance was that he sold property A and 
redeemed that mortgage, but hed been led to believe by Santander that it was usual to port 
on a simultaneous sale and purchase.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said once Santander found out about 
the error relating to the tenure, it progressed the application as quickly as possible, but there 
were external parties involved. With regard to Santander declining applications for 
mortgages on property B and property C, our investigator thought Santander applied its 
criteria fairly. And she said shed not seen anything to suggest Mr C was advised incorrectly 
by Santander about the porting process. Our investigator also said shed not seen anything 
to suggest Mr C was forced to reduce his mortgage balance by 10% in May 2021  she 
thought it was always his intention to do so given his conversation with Santander on         
21 November 2020.
Mr C didnt agree. He said:
Santander didnt request further information on the tenure of property C  his broker 
had to chase Santander in that regard. That was a minor issue and shouldnt have 
led to him missing the stamp duty deadline.
Santander never once mentioned that 75% loan to value was required. Had it done 
so earlier in the process it would have prevented all of the issues that followed.
Santander told Mr C  when he was applying to port to property B  the maximum he 
could borrow was £133,500, yet he eventually borrowed £235,519 with no change in 
circumstances. He was never told by Santander that it had a more streamlined 
assessment process and what the criteria was for that.
Mr C had no option but to pay 10% off his mortgage balance to reduce his ERC 
liability because Santander hadnt provided all the information needed.
As Mr C didnt agree, his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I move on to my findings, Id like to acknowledge that Mr Cs complaint has changed 
significantly since he first brought it to us. He originally complained that Santander wasnt 
allowing him to port his mortgage and hed incur an ERC as a result. But since then  as 
outlined above  a porting application was accepted and Santander refunded the ERC he 
paid on redemption of his mortgage of property A. Santander has accepted that the two 
matters are related and responded to the complaint outlined in the what happened section 
above. Mr C has said that the original complaint is no longer relevant and that our focus 
should be on the complaint outlined in the what happened section above.To decide Mr Cs complaint, Ive thought about whether Santander should have explained to 
him that the increase in loan to value to over 75% would mean it would assess his 
application differently. And Ive thought about whether Santander caused the delays that led 
to him missing the nil stamp duty deadline. Mr C says he felt forced to make a 10% 
repayment to his outstanding balance in May 2021 to reduce his ERC liability. So, Ive also 
thought about that.
Santanders assessment of Mr Cs porting application
Ive seen that Mr C had conversations with Santander about porting before he made his 
application to port is mortgage to property B. Hes asked us to consider three call recordings 
in particular. Ive listened to those recordings. 
When Mr C called Santander on 21 November 2020, he asked what his ERC liability was 
and asked if he could make a lump sum payment that year and then in January of 2021 to 
reduce that liability. Santander gave him that information and agreed that he could make 
those payments. Mr C then went on to ask whether the ERC could be waived. Santander 
said it couldnt but wouldnt be chargeable if he ported his existing mortgage to a new 
property and then it gave him some basic information about porting. It was apparent that    
Mr C already had some knowledge of porting because he said that he understood hed have 
three months to complete on the new property.
The other two call recordings Mr C asked us to listen to were preliminary calls to his porting 
application for property B on 23 March 2021. During those calls Mr C made it clear he 
wanted to borrow the same amount as was outstanding on property A. Mr C also disclosed 
that he was currently furloughed. During one of the calls Santander told Mr C theyd have to 
go through an income and affordability assessment because hed been furloughed. 
I understand why Mr C may feel that he should have been told a loan to value of less than 
75% would trigger a more streamlined assessment process. But I havent heard from those 
call recordings that Santander would have understood he was flexible about the amount he 
could borrow. I dont think he made that clear. He said he wanted to borrow the same 
amount. So, I think the adviser was correct in saying Mr Cs application would be subject to 
an income and affordability assessment. 
Mr C says Santander didnt tell him of its criteria. But 75% loan to value wasnt Santanders 
criteria for porting a mortgage. That was part of its internal guidance for underwriters about 
how they should assess applications. 
Mr C was asking for Santander to increase their lending risk, as the loan to value ratio on the 
new property was going to be significantly higher than what it was on his existing property. I 
appreciate that Mr C was trying to reduce his overall risk of financial difficulty by downsizing 
and reducing his outgoings, but the immediate risk to Santander of recovering their lending 
was increasing. 
In the circumstances of the covid pandemic, given that Mr C was furloughed at the time of 
his application, I think it was reasonable that Santander applied its internal guidance as it 
did. I understand that Mr Cs employer did provide a letter confirming Mr Cs normal salary. 
But that letter also said he was partial JRS/furloughed and his rosters had been 
significantly reduced. So, I think its reasonable that Santander concluded from the letter that 
Mr C wasnt earning his normal salary. And the letter gave no indication of when he would be 
earning his normal salary.Given what Santander appears to have known at the time about Mr Cs circumstances and 
the wider circumstances of the covid pandemic, I dont think it unfairly assessed Mr Cs 
porting applications for property B or property C when it declined them. 
From Santanders notes it appears that the significant change in Mr Cs circumstances 
occurred when he confirmed he was happy to accept a mortgage that resulted in a loan to 
value no greater than 75%  on 8 June 2021. I think its reasonable that Santander assessed 
the application differently from that point on. 
The time taken by Santander to issue a mortgage offer
Having agreed to proceed with Mr Cs application after his broker confirmed hed borrow an 
amount equating to 75% loan to value on 8 June 2021, Santander issued a mortgage offer 
on 28 June 2021. Even when it was confirmed that Mr C would be happy to proceed on a 
75% loan to value, Santander still had to assess his application from an affordability point of 
view. That had to be done and accepted before moving to the valuation stage of the 
application assessment.
The valuation stage was delayed by the fact that the tenure of the property was stated 
incorrectly on the application. The evidence available  Santanders notes  suggest that 
was an error caused by the broker. The broker was quick to respond  providing 
confirmation of the remaining lease length and the cost of service charge and ground rent. 
But the valuation could only be reinstructed after that was confirmed. Santanders notes 
suggest the valuation was reinstructed between 1 to 2 working days after the brokers 
confirmation of the lease details. The valuation report shows that it was carried out on        
28 June 2021  the same day Santander issued the mortgage offer.
Mr Cs purchase of property C didnt complete until 23 July 2021, missing the nil stamp duty 
deadline by more than three weeks. I appreciate that the timing of Santanders offer didnt 
allow much time for completion before the nil stamp duty deadline. But I havent seen 
significant delay that was in Santanders control. Mr C was reliant on third parties as well as 
Santander for his mortgage application to proceed. Each one of those would have been 
busier than usual because of the looming deadline. I cant see from Santanders response 
times that it was the cause of the missed deadline. And, based on the time taken to 
complete after Santander issued the mortgage offer, Santander would have had to issue the 
mortgage offer around 7 June 2021 for the sale to complete on time. That was when Mr Cs 
broker confirmed hed borrow an amount equating to 75% loan to value and a considerable 
amount of work had to be carried out after that point to enable Santander to offer  some of 
which from third parties.
I understand that Mr C feels that the substantial delay was caused by Santander unfairly 
declining his applications before it eventually accepted the one for property C. But, as 
explained above, I dont think it did decline those applications unfairly. So, I dont think 
Santander caused that delay.
Was Mr C forced into making a 10% reduction on his mortgage balance in May 2021?
Mr C said he had no choice but to reduce his mortgage balance by 10% on 21 May 2021. He 
said he had to do so to reduce his ERC liability, because it appeared at that time that 
Santander would not port his mortgage. And, he says, had Santander told him how he 
couldve met its criteria before then, he wouldnt have had to make that payment.Ive already explained that the 75% loan to value threshold related to internal guidance on 
how Santanders underwriters should consider mortgage applications, rather than published 
criteria for mortgage acceptance. And Ive seen from Mr Cs call to Santander of                 
21 November 2020 that he originally intended to make a 10% reduction to his mortgage 
balance in January 2020. I appreciate his opinion of his financial position may have changed 
before January 2020, causing him to re-think that strategy. 
Mr C says he lost interest on savings he had to withdraw to make the 10% payment in May 
2021. But he proceeded to redeem the mortgage fully approximately three days later. So, 
any loss he made could only have been minimal. Mr C hasnt provided evidence of the 
account/investment he withdrew from to make the 10% mortgage repayment or shown that 
money was earning more than he saved in mortgage interest. So, even if I thought 
Santander should have shared its internal underwriting guidance with him, I havent seen 
that Mr C has suffered a loss. That means I dont think Santander has caused Mr C to lose 
out  because he diverted money away from his savings  by not sharing its internal 
underwriting guidance. 
Summary
As Ive explained, I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander not to share its internal 
underwriting guidance with Mr C, I dont think it unfairly declined his application for property 
B and his initial application for property C. So, I also dont think it was at fault for the delay 
caused by those applications failing. And that means I dont think that forced Mr C into 
making a 10% reduction of his mortgage balance.
I also think Santanders handling of Mr Cs mortgage application after hed agreed to limit his 
borrowing to 75% of the property value was reasonable. I appreciate that missing the nil 
stamp duty deadline was costly for him and that resulted in additional distress. But I think 
Santander progressed his application in reasonable time, given all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman