DRN-2059631
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC rejected a cheque he tried to pay into his account.
What happened
Mr B is known by his middle name. In February 2020, he paid a cheque into his Lloyds 
account using the instant deposit machine at a local branch. But, because the cheque was 
made out to his middle name, not his first name, Lloyds rejected this. And because the 
cheque hasnt been presented in person, they destroyed it. Lloyds told Mr B he would need 
to get the cheque reissued, but because the person who wrote the cheque has since passed 
away, Mr B couldnt.
Mr B has complained about how Lloyds dealt with the cheque. He didnt think it was fair the 
cheque was rejected because his middle name was on his account. But Lloyds didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong, so Mr B brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Lloyds have the discretion to accept a cheque where the account 
holder is known by their middle name. But, because Mr B used an instant deposit machine 
instead of presenting the cheque at the counter, that discretions couldnt be used. He also 
said that it was Lloyds process to destroy cheques that couldnt be represented. So he didnt 
think Lloyds had done anything wrong.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He didnt think that any part of the cheque was in 
any was incorrect or inaccurate and he felt the outcome reached by the investigator was 
not sensible, fair, nor reasonable. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the inconvenience this has caused Mr B. Ive no doubt he finds the 
situation very frustrating, especially as he now needs to go back to the estate of the person 
who originally wrote the cheque to get it reissued. But, for me to agree that Lloyds should 
compensate Mr B for this or do anything differently, Id need to be satisfied they didnt follow 
their processes for dealing with cheques. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions for Mr Bs account with Lloyds. These say that where a 
customer is known by their middle name  a member of management has discretion to 
accept the cheque. Lloyds have said that for discretion to be applied, this would need to be 
done at the counter. It cant be provided through the instant deposit machine - when a 
cheque is paid in through an instant deposit machine, the payee details must match with the 
account holders details.
Lloyds have also said that, in circumstances like these, its their policy to destroy the cheque. 
This is because it cant be represented to the account as the names on the cheque and 
account dont fully match.
I understand why Mr B feels this situation isnt fair or reasonable. Especially because, if hed 
gone to the counter instead of the instant deposit machine, its likely that Lloyds wouldve 
applied discretion and accepted the cheque. But it isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to decide what policies financial business should have in place. This is a decision 
Lloyds can make in line with its regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority. 
For this reason I cant say that Lloyds have treated Mr B unfairly  theyve applied their 
policies to him in the same way they would apply their policies to anyone. I accept why the 
outcome of these policies feels unfair to Mr B, but the application of those policies wasnt 
done unfairly. And I cant tell Lloyd that they need to change their policies. So, and while 
thisll be disappointing to Mr B, I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman