DRN-2315628
The complaint
Mr R complains that Standard Life Savings Limited (Standard Life) did not allow him to pass 
instructions via email and that he suffered a financial loss as the value of his investment has 
now fallen.
What happened
Mr R holds an ISA with Standard Life and wished to cash in this investment to pay for some 
building works. Mr R tried to do this via Standard Lifes website on 21 February 2020 but 
wasnt successful. Standard Lifes policy is to only accept instructions over the telephone 
after the client has successfully answered security questions.
Mr R has a hearing disability that means that telephone is not his preferred method of 
contact, so he emailed Standard Life on 27 February 2020 to cash in his investment. 
Standard Life replied on the 10 March 2020 to say that they could not accept this email 
instruction as it was against their policy and asked Mr R to send a written instruction to them. 
Mr R complained to Standard Life say that he was discriminated against and that they 
should honour the price that was shown when he first attempted to cash in his investment.
Standard Life investigated Mr Rs complaint but didnt think that they had done anything 
wrong. They said that their policy not to accept email instructions was to ensure that clients 
were protected from fraud and that there was an alternative option available for Mr R to cash 
in his investment with a written instruction. Standard Life did not uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with Standard Lifes response, Mr R referred his complaint to the service and one 
of our investigators reviewed his complaint. The investigator didnt think that Standard Life 
had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr R has asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and will 
not be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr R feels strongly about his complaint so I will 
explain why I have arrived at this decision.
My role as an ombudsman is to investigate the complaint and find out if the business has 
done anything wrong in providing a service to the client. I will look at what happened and 
what should have happened. If something has gone wrong, then I need to consider the 
impact and what is fair and reasonable redress to put the client back into the position they 
should have been in had the error not occurred.
In order to consider if something has gone wrong, I need to look at how the service 
operated. Mr R has said that he wished to cash in his investment, so I have looked at what 
the terms and conditions say. Under the section Communication, it says:
The preferred method of communication between you and us will be by telephone and 
between your financial advisor and us will be by email. We will also accept communication 
by post.
Standard Life have said that Mr R did not have a financial advisor involved in the investment 
so the only two ways of communicating with Standard Life was telephone and post.
As previously stated, Mr R had a hearing disability and did not wish to use the telephone as 
this does not work for him. This left post being the other option available to Mr R. 
Mr R says that he was only offered the postal option on 10 March while he was waiting for 
Standard Life to respond to his complaint. Although I can see that Standard Life did include 
this information to Mr R on 10 March, this information was also included in the terms and 
conditions for the service which he would have been sent. Although I sympathise with Mr R, I 
think that Mr R was already in possession of this information.  
Mr R says that Standard Life should be able to communicate by email and that is why he 
used their online service. When I initially viewed the documentation on file, the terms and 
conditions sent by Standard Life were for the Wrap Service. These seem to say that clients 
can use email. 
I asked Standard Life about this and asked them for the Client terms and conditions. The 
relevant section is quoted above saying that clients should use telephone or post. It is not for 
the service to say how a business should run its service  I can only look to see if something 
has gone wrong or if they have acted unfairly.
Standard Life have said that they dont allow email as this can be open to fraud and the 
policy is in place to protect clients. I have looked at the information supplied by Standard Life 
on emails sent by Mr R and I note the following:
Mr R provided Standard Life with an email address as part of his application. This was held 
within their systems
The email that was sent on 27 February 2020 by Mr R was from a different email address to the 
one that Standard Life held
They said that another email was sent by Mr R on 25 January 2020 in relation to a different issue
Standard Life have said that they dont accept email as a protection against fraud. I have 
already noted that the terms and conditions only allow communication by telephone or post, 
but I think that even if Standard Life did allow email, there may have been enough doubt as 
to whether this was a genuine instruction from Mr R.
I have read Mr Rs email of 27 February which was written after he attempted to go online 
and sell his investment. I am not persuaded that the content of this email contains an explicit 
instruction to sell and close his account, but this would not have been accepted by Standard 
Life in accordance with their policy and terms and conditions.
Mr R has said that he did consider getting his wife to call Standard Life but says that this 
would probably not have been allowed due to data protection issues. Standard Life have 
said that they could have spoken to Mr Rs wife had there been a suitable authority in place. 
I have not seen any evidence from the file that that Mr R had pursued this option.Mr R says that Standard Life should give him the price that he would have received after his 
initial email, but they have declined to do this as they have done nothing wrong. Having read 
the documentation available to me, I dont think that Standard Life have acted unfairly and 
Im not going to ask them to do anything further.
I sympathise with Mr R that he was not able to pass his instruction to Standard Life in the 
way that he would have wanted but Standard Life did give him alternative options and at the 
time of referring his complaint to the service, had not provided Standard Life with an 
authority to let his wife speak on his behalf or send an instruction by post.
In summary, Mr R was provided with documentation that described how the service was run 
and how he needed to communicate with them. Mr R was provided with an alternative option 
to pass his instruction and I dont think that Standard Life have acted unfairly in how they 
dealt with Mr Rs instruction.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman