DRN-3349878
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd refused to refund a transaction made to a scam binary 
options trading platform. 
What happened
Mr H came across a binary options merchant called SolidCFD (S) on Facebook. He left his 
contact details and a broker from S called him promising him guaranteed gains if he invested 
with them. The broker told him he had to pay a minimum amount to give him access to a 
trading account to start investing and he could withdraw funds when he wished. Mr H agreed 
and on 19 December 2017, he paid £500 to S using his NewDay Mastercard credit card. 
S encouraged Mr H to take out a loan to invest additional funds but he declined to do so. S 
also tried to take additional funds from Mr Hs credit card without permission but NewDay 
alerted him to this and the transactions were not processed. 
Following this incident, Mr H attempted to contact S but they no longer answered his calls 
and he was not able to access his account or see his balance. 
Mr H contacted NewDay to assist with the recovery of his funds. NewDay processed a 
chargeback claim but S bank defended it. NewDay felt it had no further recourse to recover 
his payment through the chargeback scheme and concluded section 75 couldnt be applied 
to the transaction. Unhappy with NewDays response, Mr H referred his complaint to this 
service.
 
One of our investigators thought that NewDay should return Mr Hs money on the basis that 
a claim under section 75 ought to have succeeded.
 
NewDay didnt agree section 75 could be applied to the transaction. It said in summary:
In previous final decisions issued by this service, we didnt agree that section 75 
could apply to these types of transactions. 
This services website references the purchase of goods or services when 
explaining section 75 claims. 
The Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank Plc refers to the lender providing credit 
for the purchase of goods and services, pursuant to arrangements between himself 
and the supplier. 
As the deposit of monies was not the purchase of goods or services, it concludes 
section 75 is not engaged. 
It is difficult to reconcile how the claim relates to the payment where a payment is 
made with a binary trading company and the contract was entered into before a 
payment was made using the credit card. 
There is no cash price attached simply a deposit of monies into an account. There is 
also no single item to which the supplier has attached a cash price. If there are 
multiple deposits or the ability to make multiple deposits it is difficult to see how these 
can be classed as a single item or a cash price. A deposit of monies is not to pay for 
goods or services. In most cases, further monies are deposited into the account 
which are then mixed with the deposit in question. 
Additional interest at 8% to compensate a customer for being kept out of his money 
with interest rates at a historical low would significantly overcompensate the 
customer for being unable to invest this money elsewhere. It would suggest that the 
Courts special account rate of interest would be applicable in the circumstances.
 
On 16 February 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below (which forms part of this final decision):
Ive first considered that Mr H had no valid chargeback rights. The Mastercard chargeback 
scheme significantly limits any options for investment or gambling transactions. I think 
NewDay did its best to assist Mr H in recovering his money but when S bank defended the 
claim, it was not unreasonable for it to conclude it had no reasonable prospect of success if 
it were to take Mr Hs claim any further forward. 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Hs complaint on the 
basis that NewDay is liable to him under s.75. As a starting point, its useful to set out what 
the Act actually says: 
75(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
a) under a non-commercial agreement, 
b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000
To summarise there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
act. And, Im satisfied here there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain  
insomuch and whilst there are three parties involved:
1. Mr H (the debtor)
2. NewDay (the creditor); and
3. S (the supplier)  as shown on Mr Hs paperwork and on NewDays business file 
submissions. 
The second consideration is whether the transaction is financed by the agreement. 
Transaction isnt defined by the Act, but it has generally been given a wide interpretation by 
the courts  to include whatever bilateral exchanges may be part of a deal. Here, Mr H has 
deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those funds on an 
investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. Given the 
exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there was a 
transaction (which Ill call the deposit-transaction) as defined by s.75. Again to finance is not defined under the Act. An ordinary definition would be to provide 
funds to do something. In Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds TSB Bank plc [2004] Miss Justice 
Gloster said in a passage with which the Court of Appeal agreed The phrase to finance 
approaching the matter in a common sense way must mean provide financial 
accommodation in respect of A credit card issuer clearly provides financial 
accommodation to its cardholder, in relation to his purchases from suppliers, because he is 
given time to pay for his purchase under the terms of the credit card agreement.  
Applying that ordinary definition here, if Mr H had not used his credit card he would have had 
to find the cash from his own resources to fund the deposit-transaction and obtain the 
investment account this supposedly entitled him to. So, its clear that the deposit-transaction 
was financed by the agreement. 
Third, the claim must relate to the transaction. Its important to consider what Mr Hs claim is 
here. Its evident from his testimony and correspondence he provided that he feels he was 
tricked into depositing the payments with the S for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Mr H to deposit larger amounts. 
Mr H does not believe that S was operating legitimately and believes he was misled into 
thinking they were.
This claim  that Mr H was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transaction. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of contract.  
In this case, if Mr H was told by S matters that were factually untrue in order to trick him into 
entering into the deposit-transaction, his claim would be for misrepresentation. Or, if the 
merchant made binding promises to him as part of those transactions and went on to breach 
these that would make his claim one for breach of contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transaction is 
the value of that deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
NewDay has declined the claim under s.75 because it says that the deposit was a step to 
speculating and didnt secure any goods. I take this to mean that the deposit was nothing 
more than transferring money onto another account, opened for the purpose of speculating 
with the money, rather than being a payment that was used to purchase goods. When funds 
are deposited onto a trading account this isnt necessarily just a transfer of money between 
accounts, it may also have been paid in return for something. In this case S has made 
contractual promises in exchange for the deposit. NewDay in its refusal to accept liability 
under s.75 havent quoted the Act itself. It is important to note that s.75 doesnt use the term 
purchase of goods or services nor is there anything within the Act that would exclude the 
present type of transaction.  
In previous correspondence, NewDay has suggested that if merchants like S were 
scammers, customers in general couldnt benefit from s.75 protection. Whether there was a 
contract for the supply of services depends on the dealings between the supplier and the 
consumer, seen objectively, not on either partys subjective intentions or the 
honesty/dishonesty of their motivation. In other words, it is perfectly possible for a merchant 
like S to have tricked Mr H into entering into an agreement they never had any ability or 
intention to carry out.  If that occurs, S and Mr H have entered into a contract, but it has been procured by S dishonest misrepresentation and Mr H has claims in law for his losses 
suffered as a result of having entered into the agreement.  
Ive also considered NewDays general argument about s.75 claims and binary options 
traders that s.75(2) entitles it to be indemnified by the supplier, therefore s.75(1) cannot 
apply to scam merchants as it would not be able to be indemnified by a scam company. But 
unlike section 75(1), section 75(2) is not concerned with consumer protection. It is not to be 
seen as a quid pro quo for the right of recourse that is afforded to debtors by s.75(1). So I 
dont agree with NewDays suggestion that there is an implied limitation on the scope of 
s.75(1). Being unable to recoup losses from the supplier in accordance with s.75(2) is simply 
one of the risks that NewDay (as a creditor) has to bear in its assessment of the commercial 
risks it enters into when it commences business as a card issuer. So I would reject the 
suggestion that s.75(1) cannot apply where a supplier scams a debtor. 
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that s.75 does apply to the credit card deposit-
transaction. 
Ill therefore go on to consider whether Mr H has a valid claim for misrepresentation or 
breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider Mr H has made a claim of misrepresentation by S  that claim being that they 
represented to him that they were a legitimate enterprise when this was not the case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mr H into entering into an agreement. 
A false statement of fact
If Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be operating a legitimate enterprise - one 
in which Mr H could have ever received back more money than he deposited, then it follows 
that any statements made by the merchant to the contrary are likely to be a 
misrepresentation.
So, the mere suggestion that Mr H could make money from the platform is likely to suffice as 
entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of fact by the merchant that it operated a 
legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform on which investors could profitably 
trade. And, Im satisfied that based on Mr Hs account of events and the nature of the 
situation, S did claim that Mr H could have made money from the trading platform.
That induced him into entering the agreement
Again, had Mr H known that the trading platform was essentially a scam designed to relieve 
investors of their money, rather than a legitimate service, theres really little question of him 
not investing with S. Consequently, should I be satisfied that S isnt operating a legitimate 
enterprise then inducement will also be demonstrated.
Was the merchant operating a legitimate enterprise?
Before discussing this in more detail, I should mention that Ive found Mr Hs account of 
events both detailed and compelling. But more than this, its corroborated not just by other 
complaints of this nature but specific complaints against S. Because of this Im minded to 
find his account to be truthful.So, turning to his account, I note that hes mentioned coming into contact with S after 
clicking on a Facebook advert. 
I note Mr Hs description of the tactics used by S. Mr H was promised large gains without the 
mention of losses, yet binary options carries a significant risk of customers losing all of their 
money. He was told he needed a minimum deposit to open a trading account and would be 
guided through his trades by a professional. Once he made his first payment, he was 
pressured to put more money onto his platform and encouraged to obtain credit to do so. Ive 
finally noted Mr Hs comments that S tried to take further funds from his account without his 
permission and once he realised, they disappeared and blocked access to his trading 
account. 
I would question the legitimacy of any investment broker pressuring consumers into applying 
for credit - as S did here - to invest in products that could lose money. Next, is blocking 
consumers from their trading platforms  again a complaint repeated across many 
complaints against similar merchants. Seemingly S has simply stopped responding to Mr H 
after they obtained all the money they could from him. 
Theres a body of external information available through various regulators, law enforcement 
agencies, government agencies, press cuttings and the card schemes that repeat the tactics 
used by S. Which does lead me to seriously question whether any actual trades were being 
placed on the outcomes of financial markets or whether in fact the merchant is offering little 
more than a video game or simulation.
The Danish Financial Supervisory Authority published an investor alert on the International 
Organization of Securities Commission (IOSCO) on 27 November 2017. The Financial 
Market Authority in Austria published an investor alert on the IOSCO about S on 13 April 
2018.
There is further evidence in the form of a scam warning on the FCAs website, dated 25 May 
2018, which suggests the merchant may not be acting legitimately it says:
We believe this firm has been providing financial services or products in the UK without our 
authorisation. Find out why to be especially wary of dealing with this unauthorised firm and 
how to protect yourself from scammers.
S is no longer operating and has not operated for some time. There are also several online 
reviews from victims that share very similar experiences to that of Mr Hs.
Taking all of this together, I dont think its likely S was operating a legitimate enterprise. This 
means that I think it has made misrepresentations to Mr H  specifically that they were 
running a genuine enterprise through which he could ever have got back more than his 
deposits from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Mr H had known this, he wouldnt have 
deposited any money, so he was induced into the contract on the basis of these 
misrepresentations.
Breach of contract 
Here, Mr H has deposited funds to open an account in exchange for being able to use those 
funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them as and when he wished. 
Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied there 
was a transaction (the deposit-transaction) as defined by s.75.
It follows, I think, that S had contractual obligations:a) To enable Mr H to use the funds from his deposits on an investment platform to;
and 
b) To enable Mr H to withdraw the funds deposited as and when he wished.
Mr H might have made losses or profits from his investment  so a breach of the former term 
has not  on the balance of probabilities  caused him to lose trading profits and he would 
(on balance) been left no better or worse off than when he made the deposits.   
It follows that as a breach of contract can be identified, Mr Hs loss amounts to the full 
amount of his deposit.
Putting things right
Ive established two grounds Mr H could have recovered his deposit-transaction:
Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Mr H has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that S made a series of misrepresentations, namely that it was operating a 
legitimate enterprise and that Mr H could access his money freely and earn a profit 
from his deposit-transaction. 
Breach of contract: Im satisfied Miss H also has a claim for breach of contract as the 
merchant breached the verbal promises to him. Namely that he would be able to use 
the funds from his deposit-transaction on an investment platform and access them 
freely  when he wished.  
Im satisfied, based on the significant evidence S were scammers, that a claim for 
misrepresentation is clearest route of recourse for Mr H. NewDay should put Mr H back into 
the position he would have been had the deposit-transaction totalling £500 not been entered 
into. So, he should receive a refund of this amount. 
On the question of interest, 8% simple, it represents a notional average cost of consumer 
borrowing to cover someone being without their money as a result of wrongdoing for which 
we are holding a firm liable; it does not represent actual loss of interest, which may now be 
zero on a current account or less than 1% on a savings account. Many consumers have to 
pay much higher interest in order to borrow, e.g. via credit cards or short-term loans. 
Responses to my provisional decision
NewDay nor Mr H responded to my provisional decision and the deadline for doing so has 
now passed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and as neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to depart from it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd should refund Mr H the deposit-transaction, plus 
interest. It should:
Refund the deposit-transaction, less any amounts credited by S; 
Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.If NewDay deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Mr H with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman