DRN-2614785
The complaint
Mr B complains that Revolut Ltd blocked his account. Hes also unhappy about the overall 
level of service he received from Revolut. He says this caused him trouble and upset and he 
wants Revolut to pay him compensation. 
What happened
  Mr B had a Metal account with Revolut. This account came with additional benefits such 
as trading functions, as well as offering a premium level of customer service. The 
subscription fee for the account was £12.99 per month. 
In September 2019, Revolut blocked Mr Bs account, while it carried out a review. At the time 
the account balance was just over £520. Mr B complained. He said he needed the money in 
his account as he was on holiday and needed to fund his trip. Mr B asked Revolut several 
times when it would unblock his account. Revolut said that it couldnt give him a timeframe 
as to when the review would be completed asked Mr B to provide some information about 
his account.
Revolut unblocked Mr Bs account in April 2020. It apologised to Mr B for how long it had 
taken to complete the review and offered him £150 compensation for any trouble and upset 
hed suffered. Mr B didnt accept the offer. He explained that because he didnt have access 
to his account whilst he was on holiday, he had to use his credit card and incur extra fees, 
hed lost out on several months of account subscription and hed suffered a great deal of 
anxiety and stress because he couldnt access funds in his account. So, he said Revolut 
should pay him around £10,000 compensation. 
An investigator looked at Mr Bs complaint. He said Revolut were entitled to block Mr Bs 
account and did so to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. But he thought 
Revolut could have completed its review quicker and recognised the impact this had on 
Mr B. He said that Revoluts offer of £150 compensation was fair. Mr B disagreed. He says 
£150 doesnt adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset he suffered. And he wants 
Revolut to provide an explanation for why it blocked his account and refund him his account 
subscription fees.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Revolut has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
Revolut may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. If Revolut 
didnt comply with its obligations it could risk serious sanction. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied Revolut acted in accordance with its 
obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Bs account. And it was entitled to do so under 
the account terms and conditions.
The timing of Revoluts actions was unfortunate. Mr B was on holiday when he discovered 
his account had been blocked. He was relying on the money in his account to be able to 
meet the cost of his holiday expenses. So, I can understand why he found this experience 
with Revolut stressful and upsetting. But as Ive already explained financial businesses have 
a legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Ive seen the evidence 
provided by Revolut and I can see that in blocking the account Revolut were following an 
internal process which they carried out in order to comply with their legal and regulatory 
obligations. This was a legitimate exercise. So, it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award 
of compensation for that, since I dont believe Revolut acted inappropriately and treated Mr B 
unfairly in taking the actions it did.
Mr B wants Revolut to explain why it didnt let him know it had blocked his account and why 
it blocked his account.  I can appreciate not being able to access his account wouldve 
caused Mr B worry and concern. But Revolut doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers 
a review of their accounts. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr B this 
information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Mr B has said that due to the block he hasnt had the benefits of the metal subscription. And 
he wants the fees hes paid refunded. Hes also pointed out that he brought a number of 
customers to Revolut. Whilst I can appreciate Mr B feels aggrieved, hes referred people to 
Revolut, Ive checked Mr Bs statements and cant see that Mr B has paid the monthly fee of 
£12.99 for the account. The investigator also confirmed with Revolut that the account was 
provided to Mr B free. So, I cant say Mr B has lost out financially because Revolut blocked 
his account.
Turning to the issue of the amount of time Mr Bs account was restricted.  Mr Bs account 
was blocked for just shy of seven months. This is a considerable length of time and I can see 
from the in app chat that Mr B chased Revolut repeatedly to unblock his account, which 
would have been time consuming and no doubt frustrating. So, Im satisfied that Mr B was 
caused some trouble and upset and I do think Revolut couldve provided better service to 
him. 
Revolut has accepted it took too long to complete its review and offered Mr B £150 
compensation. I understand that Mr B wants more compensation. But I think £150 is fair. We 
cant award compensation to punish financial businesses. Its often a modest amount. In this 
case, £150 is more than a token amount and acknowledges that Revolut could have done 
things better here. So, Im not going to ask Revolut to do anything more.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im not going to ask Revolut Ltd to do anything more to 
resolve Mr Bs complaint. If Revolut hasnt paid Mr B the £150 it offered, it should do so. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Sharon KerrisonOmbudsman