DRN-3481106
The complaint
Mr A complains that Unum Ltd stopped paying a claim hed made on an Executive Income 
Protection Plan.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties. So Ive set out a summary of 
the key events.
Mr A held an Executive Income income protection policy, which provided cover for his role 
as a self-employed director. The policy provided a monthly benefit in the event that Mr A was 
incapacitated from carrying out his role due to illness or injury.
Unfortunately, in September 2019, Mr A was diagnosed with cancer. He underwent 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy to treat the condition and he was also referred to Speech 
and Language Therapy (SALT). As Mr A was unable to work throughout his deferred period 
and afterwards, he made a claim on his income protection insurance policy.
Unum accepted Mr As claim and paid monthly benefit from the end of Mr As deferred 
period on 20 March 2020. In line with the policy terms, it continued to review medical 
evidence to assess whether Mr A was still incapacitated and prevented from working due to 
illness or injury.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr A was classed as extremely clinically vulnerable 
and therefore, the NHS recommended that he should shield at home.
On 4 May 2021, Unum told Mr A that following a review, it had decided that the evidence 
indicated there were no ongoing functional impairments resulting from physical or mental 
health conditions which would stop him beginning a graduated return to work. It had based 
its decision on Mr As discharge from ear, nose and throat (ENT) care and SALT in February 
2021 and because Mr A had told it that he had come off of the shielding list and was 
planning to gradually resume his work activity. So it had decided to stop paying Mr A 
monthly benefit, although it said it would pay full benefit for May and June 2021 to allow him 
to transition back to work.
Mr A was unhappy with Unums decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He said 
that from a physical perspective, it could be deemed that he was fit to return to work. But he 
stated that he was suffering from an impact on his mental health, caused by his recovery 
and the restrictions which had been placed on him. Hed been referred for and underwent 
counselling from a specialist cancer counsellor. 
It appears that Mr A was able to return to work at the end of August 2021.
Subsequently, Mr A provided evidence from his counsellor and consultant clinical lead which 
said that Mr A had undergone nine counselling sessions which had ended on 10 June 2021. 
The letter said that Mr A had reported symptoms of low mood and anxiety as a 
challenge/barrier to returning to work. It stated that its service didnt use the Global 
Assessment of Functioning (GAF) test (which Unum used to assess claims for mental 
illness) as a measurement in its work and therefore, a GAF score couldnt be provided 
retrospectively.
Unum assessed the further evidence Mr A had provided. But it didnt change its position. 
Thats because at the point Mr A had stopped undergoing counselling, his claim was still 
being paid. It didnt think the letter set out Mr As functioning, mental health or cognitive 
capacity beyond that date. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. He carefully considered all 
of the evidence. He thought it had been reasonable for Unum to conclude that there wasnt 
medical evidence to indicate Mr A had been incapacitated after June 2021. He noted that Mr 
A hadnt raised any concerns with Unum about his mental health potentially preventing him 
from returning to work until after it had decided to terminate the claim. And he also noted that 
Mr A had told us that hed been undergoing a number of job interviews during this period, 
which he felt indicated that Mr A was no longer incapacitated. Overall, he didnt think Unum 
had acted unfairly by ceasing to pay benefit.
Mr A disagreed. He said hed still been suffering from the mental effects of suffering from 
cancer, but Unum hadnt investigated this. He considered Unum had reached a subjective 
conclusion as to whether he was still incapacitated after June 2021. Hed been incapacitated 
until 31 August 2021 when he began working again  it was working that had been the 
remedy. He said the prejudice of being out of work, through no fault of ones own, could 
have a profound effect on a persons mental health and looking for work. Hed known that 
returning to work would be the remedy to his mental health issues and hed tried hard to get 
to that stage. The interviews had taken a great deal of mental effort. He accepted that the 
policy set out GAF criteria for classifying mental illness, but he said that Unum hadnt told 
him that this information was necessary to continue with the claim. 
In June 2022, Mr A provided further evidence from a consultant clinical psychologist in 
psycho-oncology, who Ill call Dr K. Mr A had met with Dr K to discuss his recovery and Mr 
Ks letter was provided in support of his claim.
Dr Ks letter was considered by both Unum and our investigator. However, Unum maintained 
its stance and our investigator still didnt think the complaint should be upheld. So the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, I think that Unum has treated him fairly 
and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr A that while Ive summarised the background to this complaint 
and both parties detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said 
and sent. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been raised 
and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr As policy and the available medical 
evidence, to decide whether Unum treated Mr A fairly.
Its common ground that Mr A made a valid incapacity claim on his policy, which Unum accepted and paid benefit for 15 months. As Unum decided to stop paying Mr As claim, it 
needs to show, on balance, that Mr A was no longer incapacitated in line with the policy 
terms and conditions. 
Ive first turned to consider the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr As 
contract with Unum. Page nine of the policy terms and conditions set out the terms under 
which Unum will pay policy benefit. The policy says:
We will pay benefit until the end of the benefit term or, if earlier than this, the life insured is 
no longer incapacitated or dies.
Unum has defined what it means by incapacity on page five of the policy. Incapacity or 
incapacitated:
Means the life insured cannot perform the material and substantial duties of his occupation 
because of illness or injury.
I think Unum has clearly set out that it will pay monthly benefit until its satisfied that a 
policyholder is no longer incapacitated by an illness or injury. And I also think its clearly 
explained what it means by an incapacity.
Unum accepted that following Mr As diagnosis with cancer and given his ongoing treatment, 
he had been incapacitated in line with the policy terms and agreed to pay monthly benefit. 
But this didnt mean that Unum had an indeterminate liability to pay benefit or that it was 
required to do so until Mr A was able to find further work. Page 14 of the policy sets out the 
following:
Acceptance and continuation of a claim will be subject to us receiving sufficient and 
satisfactory medical evidence to substantiate incapacity.
I think Unum has made it clear then that its continuation of benefit payment is dependent on 
medical evidence which shows that a policyholder remains incapacitated.
In this case, Unum decided that after 30 April 2021, Mr A was no longer incapacitated and 
so it decided to stop paying benefit on 30 June 2021. So Ive carefully considered all of the 
available medical evidence to decide whether this was a fair conclusion for Unum to draw.
It's clear that Mr A was referred for counselling with a cancer specialist counsellor in 
November 2020. From the counsellors letter, it seems that Mr A reported symptoms of low 
mood and anxiety, including feelings of hopelessness and pointlessness and intermittent 
low-level suicidal ideation. I can see from Unums records that a review of Mr As claim was 
carried out in late December 2020. During that meeting, Unum noted that Mr A had been 
referred for psychological services and that hed begun treatment with a mental health 
provider. It concluded that at that point: Given Mr As continued-side effects and new mental 
health referral, it would be most reasonable to continue this claim with another follow-up in 
the new year.
As such, it appears that at that point, Unum was taking into account the effect of Mr As 
mental health concerns on his ability to work and it concluded that he remained 
incapacitated. I think this was a reasonable position for Unum to take.
On 4 February 2021, Mr A was discharged from SALT. His residual symptoms were largely 
of xerostomia and taste changes, which were thought to be chronic. SALT recommended 
that Mr A should continue with exercises in the long-term to aid recovery. On 26 February 
2021, he was discharged from ENT. He was considered to be in remission. Based on this evidence, I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to take the view that Mr As cancer and 
treatment was no longer causing functional impairment or that he remained incapacitated by 
cancer.
Mr A spoke with Unum on 1 April 2021 to further review the claim. During the call, Unums 
claims handler asked Mr A about returning to work. Unums notes of the call say:
(He) needs to get back to work. Nothing is more damaging than sitting around and staring 
out of the window letting it get to youHe had reached out and spoken with some former 
clients and they have told him they cant engage with him whilst he is on the extremely 
vulnerable list.
The claims handler emailed Mr A a few days later to check-in regarding the psychological 
referral. Mr A responded to confirm that hed had a few sessions, which were still ongoing. 
Hed said it was a struggle getting back to normality when normality wasnt what it was. He 
didnt indicate that these mental health difficulties prevented him from working or had been 
treated as a recognised mental health condition.
Unum also considered the GPs records. It noted that on 10 May 2021, Mr A had spoken to 
his GP as hed experienced symptoms of low mood for some time. His counsellor had 
suggested he speak to the GP due to thoughts of self-harm. The notes say that Mr A refused 
anti-depressant medication and he thinks if he gets a job, things will improve a lot  
interview this week.
The information Mr A appeared to give Unum and his GP around April and May 2021 didnt 
indicate that he felt he had a mental health condition which was preventing him from 
returning to work. Instead, I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to conclude that the 
evidence was more suggestive that Mr As low mood was because he hadnt been able to 
find work, rather than because of a recognised mental health condition or functional 
impairment. Its clear from the GP note that Mr A had a job interview booked and by his own 
later account, he had a number of interviews to try and find work. So I dont think Unum 
acted unfairly when it decided that Mr A was actively seeking employment. And it follows that 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to take the view that Mr A was no longer 
incapacitated by his illness.
I do acknowledge that Mr A was under the care of a counsellor and Ive considered the joint 
letter from the counsellor and consultant clinical psychologist lead, dated 19 October 2021. 
This letter stated:
Following assessment on 19/11/2020, we met for 9 counselling sessions until 10/06/2021. In 
our work you described on-going challenges with adjustment and mood following treatment 
for (cancer) in November, 2019. These challenges were further exacerbated by the stress of 
emergence of COVID19.
Like the investigator, I dont think this letter is persuasive evidence that Mr A was 
incapacitated due to a mental health condition after 10 June 2021. Mr A had been paid 
which benefit after this date up until the end of June 2021. And while Mr A is concerned that 
Unum didnt tell him that it assesses incapacity claims for mental health conditions using 
GAF (which the counsellor didnt use as a measure), I dont think this is material here. Thats 
because even if GAF had been used as a measure of Mr As mental health by the 
counsellor, the evidence still wouldnt have demonstrated that he had remained 
incapacitated due to mental illness past June 2021. This means I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Unum to maintain its position, based on this evidence.
Ive also considered further GP notes dated from June and August 2021. In June 2021, the GP noted that Mr A was physically fit to work, but from a mental state point of view, he is not 
feeling wellhe thinks that if he is able to work it will help him improving his mental state. He 
is not keen to try SSRI as he thinks working will help him to improve his mental state. He is 
looking for a job and he hopes that in 4-6 weeks, he will get a job, but now is very stressed 
as if the financial support had been stopped, he would not be able to pay the bills.
Again, the medical evidence here is suggestive that Mr As low mood was mainly caused by 
concern about not working and about the termination of his claim. He chose not to take up 
anti-depressant medication. Its also clear that he was actively looking for work at this point. 
So I dont think it was unfair for Unum to conclude that there was insufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that Mr As mental illness would prevent him from carrying out his directors 
duties.
And on 4 August 2021, the GP recorded that Mr A had managed to find a job and was 
happy. They said that Mr A had attended numerous interviews, which had increased his 
anxiety and depression. Mr A reported that his mental state had been affected by having had 
cancer, the Covid-19 lockdowns and not having a job.
In my view, the GPs evidence does indicate that many of Mr As mental health concerns 
seemed to be situational. I say that because it appears that Mr A had been impacted by the 
requirement to shield and because he had been unable to find work, in addition to the impact 
of having had cancer. The evidence suggests that once Mr A found a job, his mental health 
was much improved. So I think it was fair for Unum to place significant weight on this 
evidence to conclude that Mr A wasnt incapacitated as the result of an illness or a functional 
impairment during July or August 2021.
Mr A provided further evidence from Dr K in June 2022. Ive set out some of Dr Ks findings 
below:
(Mr A) described his experience of diagnosis and treatment of a cancer... He also described 
the process of recovery, which was marked by significant mental health impact, for which he 
sought specialist psychological care. He described that the compound effect of the stressors 
severely undermined his sense of hope, confidence, competence and self-worth; these are 
typical of a mental state of clinical depression, which indeed he recognised at the time and 
discussed with his GP, cancer nurse specialist and cancer counsellor. He described that the 
combined professional support was helpful, yet the withdrawal of his insurance-based 
financial support introduced a considerable instability at a sensitive point of transition, which 
he feels may even have prolonged his difficulties. 
Mr A explained that, by virtue of his finding work being reliant on projecting fully formed 
confidence and competence in order to gain clients and contracts, rather than gradually 
returning to a reasonably accommodating workplace on a graded return program, the 
underlying mental health pressures were aggravated; the cliff-edge stress of this was 
compounding. He described that time as alternating between days of light at the end of the 
tunnel with days of abject depression; he eventually got a break and with finding that work 
came the starting point of recovery
I explained that I find this account of recovery from cancer entirely coherent and consistent 
with research and clinical evidence on re-adjustment following illnesses such as cancer. I 
stressed that seeking a definable point of biopsychosocial recovery of function from cancer 
is rather illusory and very hard to define. It certainly is not the point of end of acute hospital 
treatment (such as radiotherapy) as after-effects of treatment often continue for a long term, 
yet do not always impede subjective or objective recovery as people learn to adapt around 
them; neither is recovery set in relation to a subjective normal baseline because the old 
normal they knew has ceased to exist after such an experience of vulnerability, social disruption, loss of control and ongoing health threat. Indeed, people living after cancer are 
often faced with constructing a new normal that requires adaptive changes to daily function 
and subjective aspects such as identity, relationships, sense of future and bodily integrity.
Dr K set out that he believed Mr As symptoms were consistent with clinical depression, 
which may have been compounded by Unums actions. 
Unum considered this evidence and wasnt persuaded to change its position. Ive thought 
about this very carefully and I dont think Unum acted unfairly when it maintained its claims 
decision. While Dr K has set out some general observations about the potential impact of 
cancer on day to day life for people recovering from the disease, I dont think these 
observations are necessarily specific to Mr A. Its clear too that many of Mr As concerns 
were around finding a job and financial support, rather than concerns about being 
incapacitated by an identifiable mental illness  even though Dr K classified his symptoms 
retrospectively as clinical depression.
Im mindful that Dr K didnt have the opportunity to examine or speak with Mr A while the 
claim was in payment. The meeting took place in June 2022, around a year after the claim 
was terminated. The evidence also appears to be largely based on Mr As self-reported 
symptoms. So on balance, I dont think it was unfair for Unum to have placed more weight 
on the contemporaneous medical evidence from the time of the claim and from Mr As own 
submissions to it that at point, to decide that he no longer met the definition of incapacity. 
And so it follows that I dont find it acted unfairly by maintaining its position, once it had 
reviewed the evidence from Dr K.
It's clear that Mr A has been through a very upsetting and worrying illness and that hes also 
been through a very difficult time. I sympathise with his position and I was sorry to read 
about his illness. But overall, I dont find that Unum acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
stopped paying his claim in June 2021. Therefore, Im not directing Unum to pay anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman