DRN-2392153
The complaint
Mr D complains QIC Europe Ltd gave him incorrect information regarding whether his home 
insurance claim would be logged on the Claim Underwriting Exchange (CUE).
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Our service addressed a complaint regarding Mr Ds policy being voided under a separate 
reference  any reference to this here is for contextual purposes relating to this complaint 
only.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I can see the circumstances surrounding Mr Ds policy being voided have been 
distressing for him. So I can appreciate how being told the potential claim would be 
recorded on CUE, only to then find out later it hadnt, would add to his frustration
Mr D did call to initiate a claim on the policy, as he said hed noticed cracking in his 
property. Insurers will ask customers to disclose any previous claims or incidents that 
might have, or potentially result in a claim in the future. So regardless of whether any 
previous or potential claims were seen through, or unsuccessful, Mr D would still 
have needed to declare this to subsequent insurers if asked  whether it was logged 
on CUE or not. It would then be for the insurer to decide if it wishes to provide cover 
or not, and at what price, based on knowledge of the full facts.
Mr D said while he appreciates QIC has made an honest mistake, he feels they have 
not been reprimanded  and he says he has been punished for making an honest 
mistake, leading to his policy being voided. It isnt our role to punish businesses and 
the policy was voided for an unrelated reason, so I dont consider this relevant in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  While I agree it wasnt made clear the claim hadnt 
been recorded on CUE, and Mr D had been told it would, I dont think he has lost out 
as a result. So I wont be recommending QIC pay any compensation.
So for these reasons I do not uphold this complaint
My final decision
My final decision Is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman