DRN-2214312
The complaint
Mrs Ls complaint is about the sale of two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
attached to a credit card account. The policies were sold to her by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard to protect her credit card repayments against accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Barclays has upheld Mrs Ls  complaint about the sale of the policies, but Mrs L is unhappy 
with the compensation it paid her. 
What happened
In 2012 Mrs L complained about the sale of PPI on her credit card. Barclays upheld her 
complaint and paid her a total of £3,057.29 in March 2013.
In 2019 Mrs L again contacted Barclays. In January 2020 Barclays wrote two letters to      
Mrs L.
In the letters Barclays explained it had looked again at Mrs Ls PPI complaint. It said Mrs L  
actually had two PPI polices attached to her credit card account.
Barclays said PPI was first added to her account in March 1995 and this policy ran until 
December 2006.
Then in March 2007 a second policy was added to her account which ran until November 
2012.
Barclays recalculated what it owed Mrs L. For the first policy it offered Mrs L a total of 
£12,948.89 after tax. This included a deduction of £766.80 for a successful claim Mrs L had 
made on the policy.
And for the second policy it offered £717.23 (after the previously paid £3,057.29 had been 
deducted). 
My understanding is that Barclays paid Mrs L these amounts in February 2020.
Mrs L remains unhappy with the compensation paid to her by Barclays. Mrs L first opened 
her credit card account in 1981 and believes PPI was added to her account before March 
1995. 
Barclays says it can find no evidence of a PPI on Mrs Ls account before the policy which 
began on March 1995.
An adjudicator from this service thought Barclays offer was fair. Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
I think the compensation Barclays has offered Mrs L is fair and has been calculated how Id 
expect it to be. Ill explain why.
Before I look at Barclays offers of compensation, I think it would be helpful to explain our 
approach when we find that a PPI policy has been mis-sold.
When a business mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
When working out how to do this on a credit card, wed expect Barclays to refund the PPI 
premiums and any credit card interest or associated charges caused by the PPI. Wed also 
expect Barclays to compensate the consumer for any periods when theyd been out of 
pocket as a result of the PPI. This should be at 8% simple interest per year.
Barclays only has detailed statement data from May 2001 onwards. This is not surprising or 
unusual as it would be unreasonable to expect the business to keep detailed records 
indefinitely. So in calculating Mrs Ls compensation Barclays has made reasonable 
assumptions about Mrs Ls use of the credit card before May 2001 and the PPI premiums 
she would have been charged. Mrs L has been able to provide some statements from 1996 
and 1997 which Barclays has used to help estimate the premiums paid by Mrs L before May 
2001. 
Looking at the calculations I can see Barclays has refunded all the premiums paid by Mrs L. 
And its refunded the interest and any charges caused by the PPI. Barclays has also added 
compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple for the time Mrs L has been out of pocket.
I can see Barclays deducted £766.80 which was paid to Mrs L following a successful claim 
on the first policy. This is fair as Mrs L would not have been able to make the claim if she 
hadnt been sold the PPI. And I can see Barclays deducted £3.057.29 which it previously 
paid to Mrs L in 2013, and I think that is fair too.
So Barclays has calculated the compensation paid to Mrs L in the way Id expect it to.
But Mrs L remains certain that Barclays added PPI to her account before March 1995. And I 
can see Mrs L held her credit card account from 1981.
Ive thought about this but Barclays has shown us screenshots of its internal systems and 
these show the first PPI policy was added in March 1995. Barclays also showed us 
screenshots of searches it had carried out which failed to show any other PPI policy dating 
from before that date.
Mrs L has told us she was married in 1990 and gave us her maiden name and previous 
address and postcode.
We asked Barclays to carry out further searches using Mrs Ls maiden name and old 
postcode. Ive seen screenshots of these searches and I can see they show no evidence of 
any other PPI policy attached to Mrs Ls account.
So I am satisfied Barclays has done all it reasonably can to locate an earlier PPI policy attached to Mrs Ls account without success. And in the absence of any other evidence I 
think its likely Mrs L didnt have PPI on her account before March 1995.
So in summary I think Barclays has calculated the compensation for the two policies fairly 
and in the way Id expect it to. And Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Mrs L had a PPI 
policy attached to her credit card before March 1995.
My final decision
My final decision is that the compensation Barclays Bank UK PLC offered Mrs L is fair so I 
make no further award against Barclays UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman