DRN-4211137
The complaint
Mr F complains Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined his claim when his car was stolen.
Mr F is represented in this matter by his sister, Miss F. For ease, Ill refer to Mr F throughout
this decision. Any reference to Aviva includes its agents.
What happened
On 29 December, Mr F says he bought a new car and gave the seller his own car and £750 
in cash for it. 
On 30 December 2020, Mr F says his new car was stolen. He reported it to the police and 
made a claim with Aviva. Aviva discovered the car had been cloned and declined his claim. 
Cloning is a type of car identity theft when someone takes the registration and other 
information about a car owned by someone else (the real car), and applies them to another, 
usually stolen, car. 
Mr F complained to Aviva but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said the contract with Mr F to 
insure the car wasnt valid. This was because Mr F didnt have an insurable interest in the 
car hed insured (the real car, which was with a salvage agent in December 2020) because 
he didnt legally own the real car. So, the car Mr F says he bought wasnt the one Aviva 
thought it was when it entered the insurance contract. 
Mr F came to our service. He said:
- He wasnt to know his car was cloned as he carried out checks before buying it. 
- Aviva claimed many things including that he didnt buy the car, he didnt have the key 
for it and the key didnt belong to the vehicle and he dealt with these issues. 
- He cant be expected to know the car was cloned if a large insurer can be fooled into 
providing cover for it. 
- If Aviva hadnt insured him, he wouldve never bought the car and suffered a loss.
The Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She didnt find Mr F 
reasonably believed the purchase was legitimate as he hadnt made reasonable enquiries 
and checks before buying the car. 
Mr F didnt agree. He felt hed carried out all necessary checks to protect himself and made 
several points including the following. 
- He bought his previous car through a private sale so it was something hed done 
before. He also took his cousin with him who is fully experienced in private sales and 
cars in general, especially the technical side. They both made sure the advert was 
legitimate before travelling to buy it and were fully aware of the risk assessments 
need to be carried out and ensured they did all of this. 
- They had a phone conversation with the seller about how to pay and so, in the 
messages sent to our service, he was just repeating this to have a written answer.
- The seller came across well-presented and genuine. The information he gave 
matched the details on the vehicle check. He also asked for the sellers license which 
he gave without hesitation which assured Mr F he was legit.
- The VIN on the car matched with the number on the V5.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 May 2023 which said the following.
I agree with Aviva when it says Mr F doesnt have an insurable interest in the car and this 
means theres no cover under the policy. However, as the Investigator explained, if the 
consumer bought the vehicle, with cash, in good faith and there has been an event covered 
by the policy, we may consider it appropriate to use our fair and reasonable remit to require 
an insurer to pay the claim.
To consider if the consumer bought the car in good faith, we think about whether they took 
all reasonable steps beforehand to ensure that it was genuine. This would include things like 
checking whether the cars purchase price was comparable to that of similar cars, obtaining 
the cars registration form (V5) and a purchase receipt showing the sellers contact details 
(even though these might later turn out to be false). Wed also expect the buyer do a check 
on the cars history.
Mr F says the car was advertised on a social media site for £5,500 over 2 hours away. He 
shared messages with the seller where he asked, would you swap? and the seller said 
yes. There was very limited communication about the car hed be swapping  just photos 
and mileage. The seller asked, what you offering which Mr F replied to say Car + £900. 
According to the messages, Mr F travelled to view the car that day. At 20:03 Mr F messages 
the seller to say hes 10 minutes away and the seller replies with a number. Mr F says he 
brought the car home with him. At 21;29, there are messages about the finance - Mr F asks 
if it has been paid off  the seller says yes all cleared its because of the Christmas period. 
Mr F replies to say it still shows on the check and so hes reported all his information and the 
seller to the police so, if after Christmas the finance is still there, the seller will deal with the 
police.
Mr F says, although £900 was agreed in the messages, he actually paid around £750 in 
cash on top of exchanging his car for the new car. Im not clear why this changed. He says 
the seller insisted on cash. He didnt get a receipt (as the seller didnt have any paper), 
evidence the finance had been settled, the cars service history, receipts for the work needed 
to repair the structural damage referred to in the advert and shown on the vehicle check and 
only got one car key. Mr F told the insurer he asked for the sellers ID but he didnt have any 
so his friend showed his, which Mr F took a photo of along with the V5. I note Mr F told our 
service this was the sellers ID. The V5 didnt match the details on the ID nor the sellers 
details or where they met. Mr F says the seller told him this was to avoid there being too 
many previous owners recorded on the cars history. 
Mr F says, before he bought the car, he did an online car history check which didnt suggest 
any problems apart from the outstanding finance and Category S status. He showed us a 
copy of that result and evidence it was obtained on 29 December. In the insurers 
investigations, it says he completed this at 21:09. A full copy of this report hasnt been sent 
to our service by Mr F but, due to the outstanding finance and Category S status, this will 
have said at the top wording along the lines of Warning  There is serious adverse data 
about this vehicle. It will also have stated Do not purchase this vehicle until you have 
confirmed the correct VIN with the opportunity for Mr F to enter it for checking.
I note Mr F says he and his family member both made sure the advert was legitimate before 
travelling to buy it. But I havent seen any evidence that checks were carried out before they 
made the drive to the sellers location, more than 2 hours away from where they lived.Whilst Mr F also says he did the online check before he bought the car, this doesnt seem 
consistent with the evidence presented to our service. I can see he messaged the seller 
around 75 minutes after arriving at the address given to him and 20 minutes after the vehicle 
check was bought to ask him about the outstanding finance and also tell him hed phoned 
the police about it. So, I dont find it likely he did this while he was with the seller or before 
meeting him. Instead, I think Mr F carried out or at least reviewed the vehicle check after 
buying it. Even if hed done it before, the result wouldve been the same with a clear warning 
about proceeding due to the damage and finance and a direction to fill the vehicle 
identification number (VIN) details into the vehicle check. 
I havent seen any evidence Mr F took the checking companys recommendation and 
entered the VIN before buying the car. The problem with failing to do this and only providing 
the registration number is that this was cloned from the real car. So, if the VIN as well as the 
registration number had been checked, that may have flagged up other issues. And, if the 
VIN doesnt match the registration number on the vehicle check, that may indicate cloning. 
Mr F says he checked the VIN on the car and it matched the V5. But thats not the issue. 
Whats relevant is whether Mr F checked, before buying the car, that the VIN on the car 
matched the other information held about the vehicle independently. Although it may have 
matched the V5 document  which was presumably a forgery - it doesnt mean the VIN on 
the cloned car matched the VIN on the real car. I think given all the other issues which 
should have given Mr F cause for concern and the warnings on the vehicle check report, it 
was a reasonable precaution for him to take in this case. 
There are other reasons which shouldve alerted Mr F to make further checks on the car and 
exercise considerable caution. And I thought about what Mr F has said - he and a family 
member who went with him had experience of buying cars in this way and knew what to look 
out for. Ive also thought about the numerous inconsistencies in the evidence with our 
service when comparing what Mr F has told our service, the insurer and the investigator.
By way of example, the price of the car shouldve caused Mr F concern. The value given to 
the new car by the salvage agents - even with the damage to it - was around £10,800 but it 
was advertised for £5,500 with the damage having been repaired. This is much less than its 
market value and I havent seen any evidence to justify such a large discount. Further, Mr F 
paid around £750 for the car as well as handing over his own car. I checked the motor trade 
guides we use to determine the market value of vehicles and the car Mr F swapped for the 
new car had a market value at the time of around £6,950. This means he was paying an 
equivalent of around £7,700 for a car worth more than £10,800 damaged but advertised for 
£5,500 repaired. 
Given all the factors Ive mentioned above, I cant say Mr F carried out all reasonable steps 
to ensure the new car was genuine. Further, from the searches and information he did have, 
there was sufficient evidence to raise serious suspicions about the genuineness of the car. 
So, I dont agree its reasonable to say he bought the new car in good faith.
Taking all the above things into account, it wasnt unreasonable of Aviva to reject Mr Fs 
claim on the basis he didnt have an insurable interest. Further, I dont agree I can say its 
more likely Mr F took reasonable care or acted in a way such that Aviva should pay his 
claim. Nor would it be fair and reasonable for me to do require it to do so. 
I know Mr F feels Aviva is responsible as it insured a cloned car but theres no obligation on 
an insurer to do that, as its the consumers responsibility to take reasonable care. And, for 
the reasons set out above, I dont agree this is what happened here.
Aviva didnt respond. Mr F asked for more time to respond which was agreed by the Investigator but ultimately nothing further has been sent to our service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything and with no new information from either party in response to 
my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them. 
Given all the factors set out in the provisional decision and above, it wasnt unreasonable of 
Aviva to reject Mr Fs claim on the basis he didnt have an insurable interest. Further, I dont 
agree I can say its more likely Mr F took reasonable care or acted in a way such that Aviva 
should pay his claim. Nor would it be fair and reasonable for me to do require it to do so. 
I know Mr F will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Aviva  can do for him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman