DRN-1582036
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1990. They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint, Ill explain why.
Nationwide couldnt provide any of the original documents from the time of sale. Due to the 
time thats passed since the mortgage and PPI were sold I dont think this is unreasonable, 
these events happened nearly 30 years ago, the PPI was cancelled over 28 years ago and 
the mortgage ended over 20 years ago. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs 
R to recall in detail precisely what was discussed at the time. In cases like this, where the 
evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Nationwide told us the mortgage product Mr and Mrs R chose to take out was conditional on 
them taking out a PPI policy. In my view there was nothing inherently wrong with 
Nationwides position and if Mr and Mrs R had decided they did not wish to purchase PPI 
cover, they could have opted instead for a different mortgage product from Nationwide (if 
available) or approached another lender.
But Nationwide still had to sell Mr and Mrs R something that was suitable, if it provided 
advice. Or give Mr and Mrs R sufficient information to make an informed choice about the 
policy if it sold the policy without a tailored recommendation. 
Mr and Mrs R couldnt remember if Nationwide recommended the PPI to them or not. 
Nationwide said that they didnt make a recommendation. I dont need to make a firm finding 
on this because I dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. 
I say this because looking at Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time, if advice was given 
the PPI seems to have been right for them. For example Mr and Mrs R were eligible for the policy and werent affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. 
Nationwide has provided a policy booklet for the PPI it sold in 1990. Whilst Mr and Mrs R 
were self-employed at the time of the sale, the terms that applied to them were not onerous. 
So, I dont think this made the policy unsuitable for them.
And they seem to have had a need for the cover the PPI could have provided. Mr and Mrs R 
told us that being self-employed they had no sick pay they could have relied on, or any 
substantial savings, such that, presumably, they would have relied on each other for support. 
This policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months if they were too ill to work or if they lost a 
job. So, I think they couldve found this cover useful.
And for the same reasons given above that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think better 
information would have stopped Mr and Mrs R from taking out the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman