DRN-4454827
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Evolution Insurance Company Limited 
after he made a claim under his home emergency policy.
Evolution is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Evolution has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Evolution includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In mid-2023 Mr S made a claim under his home insurance policy with Evolution because one 
of his radiators wasnt working. Evolution arranged for an engineer to attend Mr Ss property. 
The engineer told Mr S the issue wasnt covered under his insurance policy. Mr S says the 
engineer then took a look at his boiler and told him it was about 23 years old. The next day a 
sales representative tried to sell Mr S a new boiler. Mr S says he did some research online 
and discovered that his boiler didnt start being manufactured until 2017. When he spoke to 
the sales representative again, Mr S says she said the boiler was more likely to be 13 years 
old and the engineer had entered the serial number into his system and found it was 23 
years old. 
Mr S says he contacted the manufacturer directly and was told his boiler was manufactured 
in 2021.
Mr S raised a complaint about what the engineer had said about the age of his boiler as well 
as the attempted sale of a new boiler by Evolutions agents sister company. Evolution says 
it contacted the manufacturer of Mr Ss boiler and was told it was manufactured in 2001. 
However, the manufacturer later emailed Evolution and said it was manufactured in 2021.
Evolution upheld Mr Ss complaint. It said it was happy to cancel his insurance as hed 
requested. It said it would waive the cancellation charge of £113.94 and refund him £25 to 
resolve his complaint.
Mr S remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider the matter. 
Our investigator thought Evolutions offer was reasonable, so she didnt recommend that it 
offer Mr S any further compensation. 
Mr S disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said it was clear the company was trying 
to scam him into buying a boiler he didnt need. He didnt think £25 was enough to cover the 
inconvenience caused. He said he spent a lot of time on the phone and was very distressed. 
He thought the cancellation fee was meaningless as hed cancelled his direct debit payment. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
I dont have the power to consider the attempted sale of a new boiler as this activity isnt 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. Im only able to consider the inaccurate 
information provided by Evolutions agents and the impact this had on Mr S.
Evolution has acknowledged giving Mr S inaccurate information about the age of his boiler. 
This resulted in some inconvenience for Mr S as he spent time on the phone and emailing 
Evolution and the boilers manufacturer. Mr S says this also caused him distress. He 
believes hes the victim of an attempted scam. Mr S says he suggested Evolution increase 
its offer of compensation to £100 but he thinks a larger payment is necessary to punish a 
business who uses these practices.
Its not our services role to fine or punish a business. If we decide a business did something 
wrong and a complainant has lost out as a result, we will tell it what it needs to do to put 
things right.
Mr S doesnt appear to have lost out financially because he was given the wrong information 
by Evolution. I appreciate Mr S was frustrated by what happened and he found the situation 
stressful. However, Evolution has apologised, and the matter was resolved within a couple of 
weeks. 
Mr S doesnt believe he would benefit from Evolutions offer to waive its cancellation fee as 
he cancelled his direct debit payment. However, the policys terms and conditions say: 
cancelling your Direct Debit through your bank doesnt mean that youve cancelled your 
agreement with us. 
The terms of the policy also say that if the agreement is cancelled outside the 14-day cooling 
off period and the policyholder has had an engineers visit they may have to pay cancellation 
charges. 
Given that Mr S was visited by an engineer, it seems that cancellation charges would 
normally apply. So, I think Evolutions offer to waive the cancellation fee and pay Mr S £25 
fairly recognises any distress and inconvenience its responsible for causing him.
Putting things right
Evolution should:
Cancel the policy and waive its cancellation fee (if it hasnt already done so) and 
Pay Mr S £25 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
Evolution Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to waive its cancellation 
fee and pay Mr S £25 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So, my decision is that Evolution Insurance Company Limited should waive its cancellation 
fee and pay Mr S £25 to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman