DRN-1674282
The complaint
Miss G complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) failed to provide her with important 
information about money transfers into her account, which led to her incurring unnecessary 
and excessive fees.
What happened
In January 2020 Miss G transferred around €40,000 into her UK Starling account. The sum 
was converted from Euro to GBP using the exchange rate at the time, alongside a 2% fee 
(around £680).
Miss G complained, saying she hadnt been made aware there would be a fee that would be 
charged. And she said Starling had advertised itself as having no fees. Miss G also specified 
shed looked at the fees section of the terms and conditions within Starlings mobile phone 
app and this hadnt been clear.
Starling disagreed, and said its terms and conditions specified an additional 2% fee would be 
taken. But it said it would pass feedback to its website team. It also highlighted that if Miss G 
had taken a Starling Euro account she couldve completed the transfer without any fees.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Miss G had read the terms of the account 
within the app, and these hadnt been clear. Whilst Starling had since said the 2% was 
mentioned within an online FAQ, he felt it was reasonable for her to have relied on the terms 
shed read which hadnt mentioned this.
So, the investigator said Starling should refund the 2% taken during the conversion. Starling 
disagreed so the complaint was passed to me. I put my provisional thoughts to Starling and 
Miss G explaining why I also intended to uphold the complaint, but with a different direction 
on what needed to be done to put things right. Ive summarised this below.
Its not in dispute Miss G had used the Starling app to find out whether any fees or 
charges would apply to her money transfer. This seemed reasonable given the size of 
the transfer. And based on her testimony (which was consistent with phone calls made to 
Starling) shed read the following section:
Receiving money into your Account
Receiving money from the UK: free of charge to receive £ Sterling into your Account. 
Receiving money from outside the UK: at this stage we can only receive money into your 
Account in £ Sterling or Euro. We will not charge a fee for receiving £ Sterling or Euro 
from outside the UK. However, the payer may be charged by their bank for making a 
payment in £ Sterling or Euro.
From Starlings submissions, I understood its intention was for these terms was to mean 
that £ Sterling could go into a £ Sterling account without a fee, and Euro could be 
transferred into a Euro account without a fee. 
But I said these terms didnt cover the situation where a conversion needs to take place 
(Miss Gs circumstances). As a result I could understand why Miss G read this to mean 
there were no fees at all as  especially the section that said Starling would not charge a 
fee for receiving £ Sterling or Euro from outside the UK with no further clarification or 
reference to other terms.
Starling highlighted Miss G couldve found reference to the 2% rate within its app FAQ 
section. And while I didnt doubt this was the case, I thought it was reasonable she didnt 
seek this out given shed read the detailed terms and conditions that hadnt pointed her 
to these.
Overall I was satisfied Starling hadnt provided clear information to Miss G. As a result, I 
was persuaded shed completed the transfer believing there wouldnt be a charge. And I 
thought Starling would need to take steps to put things right. But I disagreed with our 
investigators recommendation that Miss G should therefore receive the full fee back as I 
had to consider what she wouldve done instead. 
Miss G had said she wouldve found a better rate elsewhere but hadnt put another 
method forward. Id noted that Starling had mentioned Miss G couldve set up a free 
Euro account and wouldnt have paid any fees when transferring the funds. And in turn if 
shed transferred the sum between her Starling Euro and Starling GBP accounts, shed 
have instead paid a 0.4% fee on the total instead of 2%.
I was persuaded Miss Gs intention had been to ensure the fee was low as possible, so  
in the circumstances had Starlings information been clear, it seemed likely she wouldve 
opened this second account then transferred the sum for a fee of 0.4% instead of 2%, 
reducing the total fee she was charged.
I concluded a fair solution in this case would be for Starling to refund 1.6% of the fee Miss G 
paid, as if she had the benefit of the 0.4% fee instead of the 2% incurred. And I said Id also 
expect it to cover 8% simple interest from the time the transfer was completed until the date 
this is sent to her.
Starling responded and said the conversion rate used included the 2% fee. And while it 
understood it couldve been made clearer to the customer, it didnt feel it should refund a 
proportion of the conversion fee as Miss G wouldve still had to pay a rate if shed gone 
elsewhere.
Following this a different Starling representative responded to say they felt the statement 
given to Miss G was accurate. And it added that it had been wrong to refer to the 2% as a 
fee previously, as no fees had been charged. Instead it had a conversion rate which was the 
market rate plus 2%.
Miss G also replied, saying shed used the Starling account as shed been interested in the 
interest rate offered, and because she believed there would be no fees upon a transfer. But 
she added she also had accounts with other banks, and after reading their terms and 
conditions shes said she couldve instead transferred the fund through one of these 
accounts where there is no fee. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.Ive given my reasons previously why I believe Starling failed to provide Miss G with clear 
information. Starlings comments do not persuade me otherwise, and at least one of its 
representatives seemingly agrees this information couldve been clearer. I also agree with 
it that Miss G wouldve likely incurred a charge or different conversion rate if shed taken her 
business elsewhere  which was the reason Id considered its Euro account that it had 
pointed out to her after the event.
In terms of whether the 2% was a separate fee or part of its conversion rate plus this 
percentage doesnt change my mind. I say this as either way this wasnt explained in the 
information Miss G was given.
Ive also noted the terms and conditions of the account Miss G has mentioned. And while 
this does appear to include a fee free transfer, it appears to have a different conversion rate 
so Im not persuaded Miss G wouldve used this instead. I also say this as Miss G already 
had this account so Im satisfied she was drawn to use the Starling account. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. 
Starling Bank Limited must refund Miss G the difference between the 2% sum she paid, and 
the sum she wouldve paid had she had the benefit of the 0.4% fee instead. 
Starling Bank Limited must also pay Miss G 8% simple interest on this refunded sum from 
the date of the transfer until the date of settlement. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Starling Bank Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Starling Bank Limited must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman