DRN-4001952
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H have complained about the service provided by Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) under a home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H contacted RSA to make a claim under a home emergency policy. RSA said 
it couldnt find the policy. Mr H and Mrs H were able to register the claim a couple of days 
later and an engineer then visited.
Mr H complained to RSA. He said he received a phone call from RSA about his complaint 
but didnt then hear anything further. So, Mr H complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. She said it wasnt possible to determine if the delay in finding the 
policy was reasonable or not, but that it would have been concerning for Mr H and Mrs H 
when they had a home emergency. She also said Mr H and Mrs H seemed to receive poor 
service in relation to their complaint. She said RSA should pay £100 compensation.
RSA didnt reply to our investigators findings. So, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr H and Mrs H contacted RSA to make a home emergency claim. RSA hasnt explained 
why it couldnt locate the policy. I cant say whether it was reasonable that there was an 
issue with finding the policy. However, I think RSAs lack of explanation about this to Mr H 
and Mrs H and the delay in sending an engineer will have caused them concern. Mr H also 
complained about this and, although he said he did receive a phone call from RSA, he didnt 
then hear anything further. Again, I think this will have caused concern about the policy and 
whether Mr H received a fair and timely response to his home emergency call.
Based on the information available to me, I uphold this complaint. I require RSA to pay Mr H 
and Mrs H £100 compensation for the poor service it provided.
Putting things right
RSA must pay Mr H and Mrs H £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) to pay Mr H and Mrs H £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman