DRN-2535652
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviation And Tech Capital Ltd (trading as Ablrate) has failed to honour 
the agreement he made with it when investing on its Peer to Peer (P2P) crowdfunding 
platform. He is unhappy that he was unable to access the secondary market to sell his loan 
parts and this caused him a financial loss. 
What happened
In early 2016 Mr B invested £75,000 via his SIPP into a loan which was promoted on 
Ablrates crowdfunding platform. The loan was due to run for five years with interest rolled up 
and paid at maturity (rather than interest being paid monthly). 
Later in 2016, Ablrate provided a lender update to confirm that due to market conditions it 
would be returning some of lenders capital with accrued interest. Following this in May 2017, 
lenders  including Mr B  were provided a partial return of their investment.  Mr B received 
approximately 18% of his capital back. 
In December 2017, Mr B contacted Ablrate to enquire about selling some more of his loan 
parts on the secondary market. He sent an email that asked about the possibility of selling 
some of his loan. He said the loan was supposed to be possible to trade on the secondary 
market, albeit with complications because of the deferred interest element. He further said 
he was looking to reduce his holding as this loan now represented a large percentage of his 
overall portfolio, so wanted to diversify. He signed off the email by saying there was 
absolutely no rush to achieve this.
In April 2018, Mr B chased Ablrate as he hadnt had a full response to his request to trade 
some of his loan parts. Ablrate responded to say they were looking into the possibility of a 
buy-back. Mr B said the original investor information documentation said secondary market 
trading would be facilitated by Ablrate. He raised concerns that trading on the secondary 
market had been continually blocked, which wasnt what he signed up for. He said this had 
limited how he could diversify his overall portfolio and having the money tied up in this loan 
meant he couldnt benefit from investments on the secondary market he was interested in. 
Ablrate said they would look for a technical solution to allow Mr B to release funds from the 
loan. 
In July 2018, Mr B again contacted Ablrate as he had become increasingly frustrated that no 
solution had been offered. Over the following months communications continued but no 
progress was made in terms of Mr B selling his loan parts. In October 2018, Ablrate 
discussed a proposal to return some of Mr Bs capital, but not pay interest. Despite efforts to 
reach a solution, this wasnt achieved and Mr B raised further concerns that the market 
position had negatively changed in the time he had been contacting Ablrate to try and sell 
his loan parts. In December 2018, Ablrate decided to treat Mr Bs concerns as a formal 
complaint. 
The project the loan was associated ran into problems. Following this, Mr B received a 
further return of his capital (with accrued interest) in January 2019  this amounted to a 
further 40% of the capital he originally invested. 
In January 2019, Ablrate responded to Mr Bs complaint. It didnt uphold it. In summary it 
said:
- The provision of a secondary market is not guaranteed and the loan in question has 
features that make it technically difficult to trade.
- The lender terms state that a secondary market is provided solely at the absolute 
discretion of Ablrate and may be withdrawn or suspended at any time either for an 
individual loan or for all loans.
Mr B responded as he disagreed with the outcome. The crux of his concerns related to the 
availability of the secondary market. Mr B referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and he didnt uphold it. Mr B asked us for 
a review of the opinion - specifically he was concerned about Ablrates failure to provide him 
with access to a secondary market, when this is something it had said it would when he 
initially invested. So, a second investigator reviewed the complaint afresh. She also didnt 
uphold the complaint but provided further reasoning for this. In summary she said:
- She didnt think Ablrate provided clear, fair and not misleading information through its 
promotional literature and other emails to Mr B before he invested. 
- But she didnt think this failing would have led to Mr B making a different decision in 
whether to invest the amount he did. She referred to Mr Bs involvement in the 
preparation of the loan before it was promoted as evidence of his intention to invest.  
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to reach a 
decision on the complaint. He made the following points:
- He accepts market risk of the secondary market not finding a buyer, but the issue is 
not providing the market at all.
- He disagrees that he would have still invested if there wasnt going to be a secondary 
market  and said he had previously made use of the secondary market in final years 
of loans. 
- His communications with Ablrate prior to the loan being available were as a result of 
an advertisement carried on the Ablrate blog  and during these exchanges he was 
being as helpful and approachable as possible for purely pragmatic reasons. 
- Ablrate have referred to the incorrect terms and conditions to justify not providing a 
secondary market.  
- There is a conflict of interest aspect to consider as the borrower was also a senior 
employee of Ablrate. So, this individual had a vested interest in keeping him 
interested and informed as a potential investor. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Ive considered Ablrates role and relationship it has with investors, as well the 
regulatory and legal framework involved. To determine this complaint, its important to 
understand the role and relationship Ablrate has with Mr B as an investor. 
Essentially the overarching relationship is that Ablrate provides potential investors with 
different lending opportunities by way of presenting loans available for investment on the 
platform, but it gives no advice or recommendations to its investors. 
In reaching my decision, Ive considered Ablrates wider obligations. At the time of promoting 
the loan on its platform, Ablrate was authorised and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are set out in the FCAs 
Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Ablrate was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. 
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading. 
So, before making the loan available on the platform for investment, Ablrate needed to 
satisfy itself that the information it collected and used to promote the loan was fair, clear and 
not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied that by providing an opportunity for its 
customers to invest in the loan it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests. 
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions 
made in the promotional material itself, Ablrate would need to carry out reasonable checks. 
What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is 
something which is very much left to each provider to determine and would vary according to 
the particular circumstances. 
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on 
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its obligations 
under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests rule (COBS 
2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on the essential 
information on which any communication or promotion is based.
Whilst I appreciate Mr B had invested prior to the publication of the consultation paper and 
guidance, I still feel it is relevant as it provides clarity as to the interpretation and application 
of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Ablrate at the time.
Taking the above into account - Ive firstly considered how Ablrate has acted, focussing on 
how the loan was promoted.  The loan was slightly unusual in that it paid rolled up interest at 
the end of the term  which had implications for how it could be traded on the secondary 
market. The issue of the availability of the secondary market is therefore a key focus of my findings. Ive considered whether Ablrate provided clear, fair and not misleading information 
to Mr B about this before he invested in the loan. 
The loan proposal was the main document available to Mr B. This contains a dedicated 
section on the secondary market. So, it was reasonable for potential investors to understand 
this was a feature  as oppose to a potential feature that had yet to be decided. The 
proposal does explain you should only invest if you are prepared to hold the loan to maturity 
and that there may be liquidity problems. But it makes a clear statement ..Ablrate will 
provide a platform upon which a secondary market can be made..Shortly before the 
commitment of the first tranche of investment in February 2016, Mr B was sent an email that 
asked him to acknowledge and accept several statements before investing. Amongst other 
things this again reiterated that Ablrate couldnt guarantee that there will be an active 
secondary market, so you should only enter into this loan if you are willing to remain in the 
loan for the entire term. There was also a point that explained that the minimum tie in would 
be six months as the secondary market wouldnt be made available until all tranches of the 
loan had been drawn down. 
Im satisfied the information in the promotion and the follow up email did explain to Mr B 
there would be a secondary market. I dont think there was any guarantee given about 
finding a buyer when selling loan parts  indeed it does suggest you may need to hold the 
loan to maturity. But overall the information provides nothing to suggests there was 
uncertainty as to whether a secondary market would be established at all.    
When Mr B did attempt to access the secondary market, after drawn-out communications 
with Ablrate, it became apparent that it hadnt put one in place because it was too difficult a 
technical proposition. Ablrate say that technically a secondary market was provided, it was 
just always paused. But this is different to the active secondary market that was described 
when promoting the loan. Ultimately, I dont agree Ablrate did provide a secondary market 
that was ever open for potential secondary trades. If there was any doubt on whether a 
secondary market would be available at all then I think this should have been made clear 
when promoting the loan. 
Having considered all of the evidence provided, Ive reached the finding that the information 
Ablrate provided about the availability of the secondary market was misleading. For these 
reasons, I think it failed to meet its obligation to provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information to Mr B.
I note Mr B has raised other concerns  including those about what are the relevant investor 
terms and conditions. But I dont think I need to make a finding on this as Ive already 
established that Ablrate failed to meet its obligations towards Mr B when promoting the loan.   
I also acknowledge that he has raised concerns about a conflict of interest. I note that the 
director link between the borrower and Ablrate was detailed in the promotion and something 
Mr B was aware of through his communications with the individual prior to investing. Again, 
this information, hasnt led me to think differently on whether Ablrate met its obligations to Mr 
B when promoting the loan as Ive already reached a finding that it didnt do everything it 
should have.  
I need to decide whether the failure to provide clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the secondary market would have made Mr B make a different decision on whether to 
invest. Mr B has been clear that he understood the risk that he may not be able to find a 
buyer on the secondary market. He also says, if he would have known that there was any 
doubt of there being a secondary market at all he wouldnt have invested. He says he felt 
confident despite the risks that the loan would be attractive on the secondary market  so 
the ability to trade his loan was key to his decision making. To support this, he says he 
previously used the secondary market to exit from other loans before maturity 
in order to avoid being overly exposed to capital defaults during the final year of a loan.
I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened had there have been no 
failings. To do this Ive considered what I know of Mr Bs circumstances at the time he 
invested in the loan in February 2016. Ablrate has provided a breakdown of his use of the 
platform at this point. His account started to be used for investment in October 2015 and Mr 
B invested in several loans and made purchases on the secondary market. But by February 
2016, he hadnt used the secondary market to sell any loan parts. While this evidence leads 
me to believe he had an interest in P2P lending, it doesnt present a picture of an investor 
who regularly sold out of loans on the secondary market. 
Ive noted Mr Bs comments that his family held another account with Ablrate  and hes 
provided information about the use of this account. He says, while the account was in his 
wifes name, he had completed transactions on this account to try out all the different 
systems. This included using the secondary market to sell a loan part in September 2015. 
While I acknowledge that Mr B does appear to have had some involvement in using the 
secondary market, Im not persuaded this supports that in February 2016 he was a frequent 
user of the secondary market and was regularly using it as a strategy to reduce risk as loans 
moved towards their redemption point. So, this information doesnt lead me to think this is 
strong evidence of his likely intentions to use the secondary market.
From what Mr B has told us, he appeared to have a lot of confidence in the project. He had 
prior involvement before promotion on the platform after responding to a blog about it. He 
also comments that it was oversubscribed, so felt it was an attractive proposition to 
investors. Taking all of this into account, if he was told that there was an intention for a 
secondary market but no guarantee, I dont think it is clear that this would have put him off 
altogether. I appreciate Mr B has strong feelings about this, but I dont think the balance of 
evidence supports that he wouldnt have invested. This leads me to the conclusion that the 
misleading information given on the availability of the secondary market wouldnt have led to 
him making a different decision to invest in the loan. So Ablrate dont need to do anything 
further. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Ablrate failed in its obligations to provide clear, fair 
and not misleading information but I do not find that this would have led to Mr B making a 
different decision with regards to his investment. So, I am not recommending Ablrate do 
anything to compensate Mr B. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman