DRN-2476895
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) dealt with his chargeback 
queries.  He would like to be refunded for the items he raised a dispute over.
What happened
Mr N raised the following disputes with BOS: 
- Dispute ending 769
- Dispute ending 244
- Dispute ending 207
On all three occasions, Mr N said he had bought items from online merchants and had not 
received what he had ordered or paid for.  He wanted BOS to raise a chargeback for these 
items so that his money could be returned to him.
BOS agreed to raise a dispute with the merchants in relation to 769 and 244 but said that 
207 had been raised outside of the time limits allowed according to the chargeback scheme 
rules.  It therefore said it was not possible to raise the third dispute.
With regards 769 and 244, BOS received a response from the merchants bank with 
evidence as to why they were defending the chargebacks.  This was forwarded to Mr N and 
he was asked to respond within 14 days.  As no response was received from him, BOS 
closed both disputes.
Mr N contacted BOS about the lack of response and when he was told the disputes had 
been closed, he complained.
BOS did not uphold his complaint.  In its final response sent to Mr N in December 2019, it 
explained it had sent a request for any further information to the email address it holds on 
record for Mr N and had closed the dispute as it had not received a response.
With regards dispute 207, it advised Mr N of the scheme time limits.
Mr N then came to this service where our investigator didnt think she could ask BOS to do 
anymore so Mr N asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a process which can be used to help resolve disputes between a consumer 
and a merchant.  The rules are set by the scheme operator  in this instance Mastercard. 
There is no obligation on BOS to carry out a chargeback, but it is considered good industry 
practice for it to do so  and we would expect Mr N to have made attempts to resolve his 
concerns with the merchants before asking BOS to intervene.
I can see Mr N has provided emails to show he had attempted to resolve matters with the 
merchants beforehand.  He said he sent this to BOS  but BOS say they were not received.  
Ive considered whether this has an impact on my decision  but for the reasons I have set 
out below, I dont think they would make any difference.
Ill deal with the disputes individually.
dispute ending 207
The timescales under which disputes can be brought are quite strict.  In this instance, it was 
120 days.  Mr N raised the query with BOS on 20 October 2019.  If I were to calculate 120 
days from the date Mr N became aware that there was a problem (22 June 2019), the date 
for raising the dispute fell before 20 October 2019. So, I cant say it was unfair or 
unreasonable for BOS not to raise a chargeback.
dispute ending 769
This query was in relation to some t-shirts.  Mr N said he had received the wrong item. BOS 
raised the dispute with the merchants who responded with evidence in support of their 
position.  BOS sent this to the email address it held on record for Mr N which is the same 
one this service has on record for him.  It said no response was received and the claim was 
closed.
I dont know why Mr N did not receive this email, but I think it is likely it was sent  so I cant 
say BOS has acted unfairly in closing the claim.
Ive also gone on to consider whether I think, had Mr N responded, this chargeback was 
likely to be successful, but I dont think it would have been.  Ive seen the description of the 
items ordered and the items delivered.  Ive also seen Mr N had the opportunity to return to 
the items to the seller if he was not satisfied.  I cant see that he made use of this 
opportunity.
dispute ending 244
This dispute was in relation to an iron pan.  I can see that Mr N raised his dispute with the 
merchants before coming to BOS and I can see that he sent an image of what he said he 
had received to the merchant.  The merchant responded by saying that it did not sell that 
item so it couldnt have been what was sent to Mr N  and Ive taken this into account when  
I consider whether BOS was unfair or unreasonable in closing Mr Ns claim.
BOS presented the evidence from the merchant to Mr N and asked for Mr N to response.  
He did not and again, I think it is likely that the email was sent.  I cant account for why it was 
not received.
Once the 14 days had passed and it had not heard back from Mr N, I cant see that BOS did 
anything wrong in closing the claim.
However, I have gone on to consider whether the chargeback would have been successful 
had Mr N received the email and responded  and I dont think it would have been 
considering the evidence provided by the merchant and Mr N himself.
I know Mr N raised a fourth complaint about a further chargeback but at the time he brought 
his complaint to this service, he was still awaiting a final response from BOS. He has also 
complained about the service he received during telephone calls with BOS staff.  This forms part of another complaint so I will not be commenting on the merits of that complaint in this 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman