DRN-3636585
The complaint
Mr M complains about charges Santander UK Plc applied when he used his debit card
abroad. Mr M also complains about an overpayment to his credit card.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In August 2021 Mr M used his Santander debit card whilst abroad. For each transaction,
Santander applied a foreign currency conversion fee of 2.95%.
Mr M also has a credit card with Santander and in August 2021 made payments totalling
£708.64 against an outstanding balance of £602.88. That left a credit balance of £105.76 
on Mr Ms credit card account. On 19 August 2021 Santander sent Mr M a credit card 
statement. The statement showed his credit card had a credit balance.
Mr M complained to Santander about the charges hed paid for using his debit card and the 
credit balance of his credit card. Santander sent him a final response on 1 September 
2021. Santander said the foreign currency conversion fee was applied in line with the 
account terms. Santander also said it hadnt taken the step of notifying Mr M before he 
raised a complaint. Santander advised Mr Ms credit card is self managed and that he could 
contact it to arrange a refund.
An investigator at this service looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. Mr M asked 
to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator said he thought charges had been fairly applied to Mr Ms current account 
when he used his debit card abroad. Ive taken the step of issuing a provisional decision to 
ensure Mr Ms complaint, including the issues raised in relation to his credit card, have 
been dealt with.
Mr Ms complaint falls broadly into two parts so Ill start by looking at the foreign currency 
conversion fees Santander applied when he used his debit card abroad.
Santander has provided a copy of its account terms and conditions. Section 8 sets out the 
charges Santander will apply when operating the account abroad and confirms a 2.95% 
fee when using a debit card. Im satisfied the fees Mr M paid were applied in line with the 
account terms.
Mr M has told us he wasnt aware of the fee or any small print. I take Mr Ms point, but its 
difficult for businesses to ensure all important information is clearly displayed. Ive looked at 
Santanders account terms and conditions and Im satisfied information about the nature of 
its foreign currency conversion fee is clearly set out and explained. I havent found evidence 
that shows information about Santanders fee is buried in the small print or unclear.
Mr M has also complained about a credit balance of £105.76 on his credit card. Looking at 
the August 2019 statement, it appears two payments of £105.76 were made around five 
days apart. That led to the credit balance of £105.76 on Mr Ms credit card. Mr M 
complains that Santander failed to notify him of the credit balance but I dont think thats 
fair. On 19 August 2021 Santander issued a credit card statement that showed there was 
a credit balance on Mr Ms account. The statement was issued less than a week after the 
direct debit payment was received. Im satisfied Santanders credit card statement showed 
Mr Ms account was in credit.
Santander says it wouldve specifically notified Mr M about the credit balance if it had 
remained on account for a longer period. But before that step was taken, Mr M 
complained and I can see Santander issued a final response on 1 September 2021. The 
final response confirmed the credit balance and advised Mr M how to obtain a refund.
I havent been persuaded that Santander failed to notify Mr M about the credit balance or 
that it treated him unfairly.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M but as Im satisfied Santander dealt with his complaint fairly 
I dont intend to tell it to take further action. 
I invited both parties to respond with any additional points they wanted me to consider before 
I made my final decision. Mr M responded and said he thought Santanders actions had 
been designed for profit. Mr M also said Santander had failed to recognise loyalty as a long 
standing customer. Santander didnt supply further comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms response and understand why he remains unhappy. But I remain of 
the view that Santander has dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly so Im not telling it to do 
anything further. Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I havent been persuaded to uphold his 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman