DRN-3905066
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt provide the service it should have 
when they made a transfer in error. 
What happened
In September 2022, Mr and Mrs S were looking at the Euro Exchange rate Barclays offered. 
They say the only way to check the exchange rate is by going into the transferring funds 
process. When doing this Mr S either confirmed the transfer by mistake or a system error 
occurred which meant the transaction was confirmed. This resulted in €219,000 being 
transferred into Mr and Mrs S UK account. Mr S immediately transferred the funds back, but 
this resulted in a substantial exchange loss. Mr and Mrs S contacted Barclays to ask for the 
transaction to be reversed but were told this couldnt happen. They raised a complaint.  
Barclays issued a final response letter in October 2022. It said that a payment would need to 
be confirmed before it was processed and didnt agree the payment was processed as a 
result of a system error. It said the loss Mr and Mrs S experienced was due to the exchange 
from EUR to Sterling and back again and said that as it hadnt made a mistake it wouldnt 
cover this cost.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said there was no evidence of a system 
error at the time, so on the balance of probability the transfers were done accidentally by 
Mr S. She noted Mr S comments about the transaction process but said it wasnt the role of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell Barclays how their systems should operate or what 
its procedures should be.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view. They said it they had raised concerns 
with Barclays that the transaction may have taken place due to a system error, but this 
concern had not been responded to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S are upset by the experience they had in regard to the 
transfer of their money and appreciate that the incident resulted in a substantial loss to them. 
However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Barclays had done 
something wrong or had treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. In this case I do not find I can say 
this has happened.
The loss arose from Mr and Mrs S money being transferred from EUR to Sterling and then 
back again. I note the comments Mr S has made about the possibility of a system error but 
there is nothing to suggest this was the case. Barclays has provided an audit log showing 
that the transaction was confirmed so, on balance, I do not find I can say the initial 
transaction took place due to a mistake by Barclays but rather by Mr S accidentally 
confirming the transfer. 
Mr S then transferred the money back. There is no suggestion that this was a mistake but 
rather Mr S has explained he panicked when he realised the money had been transferred 
and immediately transferred it back. While I can understand Mr S response, it was his 
choice to transfer the money back at that time and the exchange rate would have been 
available for him to see and so he should have been reasonably aware of the loss that would 
be incurred.
Mr S has said Barclayss systems require a customer to go into the transfer process to get 
an exchange rate and then do not include sufficient safety measures to protect against 
mistakes as there is only one step to the confirmation. I understand the point Mr S has made 
and note that Barclays has said that it takes feedback into account when systems are 
reviewed. As our investigator explained its isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service 
to say how a business should set up its processes and procedures but rather to consider if 
these have been applied correctly and fairly. In this case, while I can understand the upset 
the situation has caused, I do not find I have anything to say that Barclays made a mistake 
or that it has treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly. Because of this I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman