The complaint
Mr J complains that AJ Bell Management Limited caused him to lose out financially when it 
cancelled his online transaction to make a cash movement from his investment partner 
account, back to his self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He also says the procedure AJ 
Bell had in place for changing investment partner contributed to his loss.
Mr J is also complaining about the actions of his SIPP investment partner. Although the 
events are linked, as his other complaint is about a different business, it has been dealt with 
separately.
What happened
On the 19 February 2019, Mr Js independent financial adviser (IFA) sent an on line request 
to make a cash movement from Mr Js account with his investment partner, Rowan 
Dartington. The instruction was to move £398,541.48. Rowan Dartington received this 
request on 20 February 2019, around lunch-time from AJ Bell. Rowan Dartington noted that 
Mr J didnt have this amount in his account. His account had £397,810.49 in. As there was a 
shortfall of £730.99, Rowan Dartington wasnt able to make the cash movement. Later that 
same day, around 16:00 hours, Rowan Dartington contacted AJ Bell and asked how to 
proceed, explaining there was not enough money in Mr Js account to carry out the 
instruction.
AJ Bells terms and conditions, said it was an execution-only SIPP provider. This meant it 
could only act upon instructions. On 21 February 2019, at around 11.40, AJ Bell emailed   Mr 
Js IFA to clarify Mr Js instructions. The email said:
Further to your recent cash movement for £398,541.48 on the 20 of February from Rowan 
Dartington, please see the below from Rowan Dartington, The cash moveemnt (sic)for 
£398,541.58 for [Mr J account ending 095] has been cancelled so you can proceed with a 
different amount.
On 6 March 2019, a total of £393,782.15 was transferred from the Rowan Dartington partner 
account and the account closed. Rowan Dartington said this was the value of Mr Js 
account, as at 27 February 2019. 
Mr J complained through his IFA to AJ Bell. AJ Bell did not uphold his complaint, so he 
referred it to our service. Our adjudicator investigated Mr Js complaint and upheld it in part. 
Our adjudicator took the view that AJ Bell was not responsible for any financial loss Mr J 
suffered. She said our role was to put consumers back in the position they wouldve ve been 
in, had the correct actions been taken. In this case, the correct action was not to proceed 
with the initial transaction, because there were insufficient money in Mr Js Rowan 
Dartington account. It was not inappropriate therefore for AJ Bell to cancel the instruction, 
DRN-1606788as it could not be completed. The reasons why it could not be completed were explained to 
Mr Js IFA in a timely way, and further instructions were not received until 26 February 2019. 
These further instructions were then actioned the same day. 
AJ Bell said it used external parties to provide data on its website. Its terms and conditions 
say:
Some of the data made available on our website is provided by third party service and 
Investment Managers, we do not warrant the accuracy, completeness, timeliness or correct 
sequencing of any such data on the website nor are we responsible for any decision made 
or action taken in reliance upon that data or the interruption of any data."
The adjudicator noted that Mr J wanted to switch investment partners, which is why the 
request to move Mr Js funds was submitted. To do this, AJ Bell had a process which had to 
be followed. This involved completing a SIPP, change or closure of investment partner 
form, which had to be sent to AJ Bell for processing. Our adjudicator had seen a copy of the 
Royal Mail tracking information, which showed this being received by AJ Bell on Thursday 
28 February 2019, having been posted the day before.
The account closure request was then sent by AJ Bell to Rowan Dartington on Monday 4 
March 2019. Our adjudicator thought this was done in a timely manner.
Our adjudicator concluded that fund values do fluctuate. And despite the SIPP, change or 
closure of investment partner form showing Mr J signed it on the 19 February 2019, AJ Bell 
didnt receive it until over a week later.
Mr Js IFA said that Mr J had lost out because the value of Mr Js fund on the 26 February 
2019, as per Rowan Dartingtons internal fund records, was £398,732.28, which was 
£4950.13 more than transferred on the 6 March 2019.
Our adjudicator said she was unable to tell AJ Bell to change its internal processes or its 
online services. But she said, she didnt think it was fair on customers that AJ Bell provided 
inaccurate information on its online platform. She thought it was reasonable for consumers 
to be able to receive accurate and up to date information relating to their SIPPs.
She said it was reasonable for Mr J and his IFA to expect to see accurate information online, 
when they viewed the values within Mr Js SIPP. And although AJ Bell told their customers 
the data might be inaccurate, she didnt think that  made it fair. So, she thought Mr J had 
suffered a loss of expectation, rather than a financial loss.
She recommended Mr J be compensated for his loss of expectation. To put things right, she 
thought AJ Bell should pay Mr J £250.
Mr J didnt agree with our adjudicators view and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. His adviser said on his behalf, that our adjudicator had fundamentally missed 
the complaint. He said two untrained employees at both firms between them had cancelled 
the automatic instruction, as confirmed by email between themselves and him.
The adviser said, in summary, he had been using AJ Bell since 2002 and had over 250 
clients all using the same process and he personally used the website several times a day. 
He said the mistake was between two members of staff. He said he had recently moved 42 
clients using AJ Bells system and this was the only one cancelled by mistake. He said that 
even an employee of Rowan Dartington had confirmed Mr Js loss. He said he had made requests over several years, falling on deaf ears, for a single button on 
their system confirming full encashment, and thats why antiquated problems like this arise.
What Ive decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the decision 
reached by our adjudicator, and for much the same reasons. Ill briefly explain why.
On 20 February 2019, Rowan Dartington received an instruction which it was not able to act 
upon. There was not enough money in Mr Js account to carry out that instruction. The same 
day it asked AJ Bell, Mr Js SIPP provider, how to proceed. It e-mailed the SIPP provider, 
using the correct contact details, in the manner expected where clarification was required. 
AJ Bell e-mailed the IFA the next day, forwarding on Rowan Dartingtons email. Being an 
execution only SIPP provider, I dont think it was inappropriate for AJ Bell to email the 
adviser in the terms it did. Particularly, as at that point in time, AJ Bell had not received the 
completed SIPP change or closure of investment partner form from Mr J or his adviser. So, 
AJ Bell couldnt reasonably have known this was full encashment because the account was 
being closed. I have not seen anything to suggest that AJ Bell and Rowan Dartington accept 
they made a mistake by not completing the cash movement requested on 19 February 2019. 
I cant see that they did anything wrong, because Mr J didnt have enough money in his 
SIPP account to fulfil the instruction.
There being insufficient funds, I cant see that it was inappropriate for AJ Bell to cancel the 
instruction on 21 February 2019. It could not be completed and it was inviting Mr J to specify 
a new amount. So, I do not uphold this aspect of Mr Js complaint. 
Between 21 February 2019 and 25 February 2019, it seems both AJ Bell and Rowan 
Dartington were without instruction from Mr J or his adviser regarding the new amount of the 
cash movement. Nor, had they been told, Mr J wished to close his partner account. Looking 
at the correspondence exchanged between Mr Js IFA and AJ Bell it seems, Mr Js IFA was 
initially unaware that he had been emailed on 21 February 2019, about this situation. So, I 
cant see that AJ Bell can reasonably be held responsible for the cash movement not being 
made during this period.
Ive considered whether AJ Bell did anything wrong by choosing to correspond with the 
adviser by email on 21 February 2019. However, I can see that the agreement with the 
adviser was that correspondence would be by email wherever possible. So, I cant see that 
AJ Bell did anything wrong by emailing on this particular occasion.
It seems on 26 February 2019, Rowan Dartington were given instructions as to how to 
proceed. It acted upon these by cashing in the unit trusts the next working day, in line with 
Rowan Dartingtons terms and condtions. The amount paid into Mr Js SIPP was based on a 
valuation date of 27 February 2019. I've concluded that this was the first occasion upon 
which Rowan Dartington could reasonably act upon Mr Js instructions. So, I cant see that 
he has lost out financially as a result of this valuation date being used.
It seems, AJ Bell received the relevant SIPP closure of investment partner form on 28 
February 2019, and actioned that on 4 March, two working days later. The form was dated 
19 February 2019, but having also looked at Royal Mails track and trace records, I can see 
this wasnt sent to AJ Bell until 27 February 2019. I dont know why the form wasnt sent to 
AJ Bell sooner. But, I cant reasonably hold AJ Bell responsible for that delay. So, I think AJ 
Bell acted upon the instructions to close the Rowan Dartington account in a timely way. So 
like our adjudicator, I dont think that AJ Bell actions have caused any financial loss here.Mr Js adviser said that his clients cash movement instruction was re-instated without any 
input from him, which showed that what happened shouldnt have happened. It seems 
however, that it was reinstated because by 26 February 2019, due to market fluctuations, Mr 
J had enough money in his SIPP account to cover the original cash movement request made 
on 19 February. So, it seems AJ Bell asked Rowan Dartington to reinstate the instruction. 
This doesnt suggest to me any acknowledgement of earlier fault on AJ Bells part, nor do I 
see it that way. AJ Bell told Rowan Dartington it had been unable to get confirmation from Mr 
Js adviser as to whether this was full closure of the account. However, as I understand it, on 
26 February 2019, Rowan Dartington was in contact with Mr Js adviser, who told it that it 
was full closure, and so it proceeded on that basis, cashing in     Mr Js account in full the 
next day.
Mr J's adviser also complains about the process AJ Bell had in place to handle investment 
partner closures and cash movements. Firstly, looking at the SIPP closure of investment 
partner form, I cant require business to change their businesses processes. And irrespective 
of the advisers feelings on the efficacy of this process, it seems he was aware of the need 
for such a form to be completed. I say this because he asked Mr J to sign this form on 19 
February 2019, which Mr J did. Also, the adviser said he had raised concerns about this 
process with AJ Bell in the past, and seemingly knew the process hadnt changed. Overall, I 
cant therefore say that AJ Bell did anything wrong by not closing the investment partners 
account until it received Mr Js instructions to do so in the required format.
 Finally, our adjudicator concluded that it wasnt fair that Mr J couldnt rely on the information 
on AJ Bells website for the value of his SIPP. In her view, to put things right, AJ Bell should 
pay Mr J £250 compensation. AJ Bell said that Mr Js adviser had been told via the website, 
and in other cases, that AJ Bell doesn't warrant the accuracy of the values on its website 
and that investment partners were responsible for the accuracy of the information provided. 
Looked at overall, I think as the purpose of completing the on-line cash movement 
instruction seemed to be full encashment of Mr J's account with Rowan Dartington, inserting 
a specific amount on the cash movement on-line form in the way it was done, when 
valuations can fluctuate, and not at the same time using the specific form intended for the 
purpose of closing the partner account, likely contributed to the situation that arose here. 
However, I can see that not being able to rely on the information provided on the platform 
has caused Mr J some trouble and upset here, so I think AJ Bell should pay Mr J the £250 
compensation recommended by our adjudicator.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Js complaint in part. I order AJ Bell Limited to pay Mr J £250 for the trouble and 
upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman