DRN-3236872
The complaint
Mrs R complains that WR Simon Ashley Silver Independent Financial Advisor LImited 
(WRSAS) sold all the investments within her self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in line 
with its recommendation but without her explicit consent  and this prevented her from later 
selling a specific share shed bought shortly before that recommendation at a profit. She is 
represented in this complaint by her husband, Mr R.
What happened
2020
4 February: Mr R told WRSAS that hed had a tip on some shares in a company Ill call F. 
He asked the adviser to purchase using the funds in cash in his and his wifes SIPPs.
11 February: The adviser confirms he is not making recommendations on F and that as Mr 
and Mrs R were cautious investors, there could be liquidity problems with this investment.
However, Mr R clarifies that his interest is because his employer has already made an 
investment in F and so he knew something about the company. (At the same time the 
adviser is making other recommendations, which Mr R also accepts on his wifes behalf, for 
other cash in the SIPPs to be invested in infrastructure, solar, wind and renewables.)
13 February: Mr R asks for £1,000 of the £2,700 remaining in cash in his wifes SIPP to be 
invested in F, when the price was ~24p per share.
16 March: Having already added another £20,000 to his own investment in F, Mr R is 
considering investing a further £10,000 himself - but the adviser warns him that markets are 
likely to fall further. Mr R takes on board this advice and says hed prefer to invest back into 
UK FTSE stocks when you think the timing is right.
20 March: The adviser sends a stand-alone email, apparently standardised for all clients. 
Amongst other things this said (with my emphasis):
an article on19th March suggested that the UK economy may contract by 30% 
between April and June 2020 indicated for the first time the full extent of this crisis The 
outcome of those kind of contractions to the economy even in the short term is likely to 
cause a crisis the likes of which we have never seen before. In many ways I of course hope 
that I am overstating the problems but I think in the immediate term it is now much more 
prudent to sell all assets and hold in cash. I await your permission to encash all funds 
by return.
Mr R agrees he received this email regarding his and Mrs Rs SIPPs, but he did not respond 
directly to it. Coincidentally this marked the low point of F shares at 14.5p per share.
23 March: The adviser responds to Mr Rs 16 March email: At the time of writing the Stock 
Markets have lost all sense of perspective and the fear index is showing one of its highest 
ever readingsI remain slightly concerned that this pattern of fall may have more in 
common with the 2000 to 2003 and the 2007 to 2009 corrections where it took two to three 
years for markets to reach a bottom.
I look forward to updating you with my further observations in the near future in confirmation 
if this market correction looks more like 1987 then re-investing funds in the near but not 
immediate future.
Mr R says  in direct response to this email chain rather than that of 20 March: Happy to 
follow your recommendations. WRSAS argues that the fact this is in the plural is significant.
According to Mr Rs submissions, from Mrs Rs SIPP WRSAS then sold £2,414 of shares in 
a financial services company, £42,143 of shares in energy and infrastructure companies, 
£2,640 of units in a global high dividend fund and the shares in F which were by then worth 
£597. The total holdings sold were £47,795.
25 March: The adviser sends another standardised email saying he has sold to cash for 
those who requested it. The email doesnt make clear if Mrs R is one of those who have so 
requested, however it provides reassurance to readers that the SIPP provider will split cash 
between seven banks to mitigate the risk. It adds, At the time of writing the markets have 
posted their largest ever daily gain One or two clients have already suggested to me that 
that means we have either been too hasty or it is time to get back in the market, but I must 
stress that firstly this has terrifying similarities with the 1929 Stock Market crash [when] to 
reassure investors a number of key industrialists made investments in the Stock Market 
around six weeks after the initial wave of selling occurredAt this time, I believe that any 
investment in the Stock Market is pure speculation in the extreme.
3 April: WRSAS has a note of a phone conversation with Mr R in which they discuss the 
state of the markets. The advisers notes say that Mr R asked him whether the investments 
had been sold, and the adviser confirmed they had been. Mr R then requested valuations.
Mr R says he doesnt recall this conversation, but he cant see why he would have asked for 
valuations (which the adviser went on to provide) if everything was sitting in cash. He also 
said that he had always trusted the advisers judgement except that with the shares in F, he 
would never have wanted to sell them so soon after buying them. However he was also 
aware that in times of uncertainty it was best to 'sit tight' as he was investing for the longer 
term. So although he would have looked into the advisers recommendation to sell the 
portfolio generally, he would also have looked for opinions elsewhere and doesnt think he 
would ultimately have agreed to do so for his own or Mrs Rs portfolios.
6 April: The adviser emailed Mr R updated valuations for the SIPPs at his request, which 
Mr R acknowledged the same day. As the valuations were password protected, WRSAS 
provided the password at Mr Rs request on 13 April. For Mrs Rs SIPP, the statement shows 
a total of £50,134 in cash and nothing in other assets. Meanwhile, by 9 April the price of F 
shares moved back above what Mrs R had originally paid.
14 April: Mr R confirmed receipt of the password and discussion moved on to another query 
about whether money could be transferred to his wifes SIPP.
21 August: The adviser emailed an updated statement of Mr Rs SIPP (apparently not 
Mrs Rs) for his quarterly review. The statement also shows nothing in other assets. In the 
email itself the adviser confirmed all your funds remain held in cash at this time. Again 
Mr R requested the password to view the attachments (which was provided). Mr R says he 
didnt think anything was untoward about this communication, as his SIPP receives 
substantial monthly contributions and always had some funds sitting in cash.
2021
26 January: Mr R asks WRSAS to sell all of the SIPPs holdings in F, at the same time as 
he also sells his personal shares in that company. The adviser reminds him the same day 
that the whole portfolio had been liquidated in March 2020. His notes of this conversation 
and a subsequent one on 1 February suggest Mr R was aware that the portfolio had been 
sold in March 2020 but he didnt realise this included the shares in F, and he hadnt regularly checked the status of the portfolio. Further, that the adviser acknowledged that there was 
some confusion and an ex gratia payment of £5,000 was offered.
5 February: Mr R calculates Mrs Rs loss for which she is claiming to be £15,787 including 
the original infrastructure, energy, financial services shares and global dividend fund as well 
as F.
12 February: WRSAS responds that it stretches all credulity that Mr R would not have 
queried the sale of Mrs Rs shares for 11 months, if that wasnt what they had intended. It 
says that if he and Mrs R do not accept its offer of £5,000 then this combined with the wider 
market uncertainty affecting the company means that they will petition to wind it up.
Mr R was taken aback by WRSAS response. He said he was not in the habit of using his 
online access for the SIPP provider and in any event he was not expecting to receive 
contract notes for shares he hadnt asked to be sold. As WRSAS would not increase its offer 
he referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator asked Mr R about his recollections of events and where relevant Ive 
included these above. They also asked the SIPP provider for details of when Mr R 
successfully logged in after the sell-down in March 2020. The dates were:
For the adviser-led account:
13 April 2020 (unsuccessful) 1 February 2021 (successful)
For the client-led account (successful logins only):
3,14 & 27 July 2020 2, 14 & 22 September 2020 2, 5, 7 & 21 October 2020
11 November 2020 22 December 2020 4 January 2021
The investigators view of the complaint contains a factual error. It says that both the 
standardised all clients email (recommending everything be sold to cash), and the specific 
one which Mr R replied to (recommending they delay making further investments) were sent 
on the same day. In fact the former was sent on 20 March 2020 and the latter 23 March.
Nevertheless, in summary the investigator reached the following view:
Mr R did not give a clear instruction to sell all Mrs Rs funds on 23 March given that 
he didnt reply to the all clients email directly. His use of the plural 
recommendations was typical of when he replied to the adviser - and didnt suggest 
he was accepting the recommendations in each email individually.
In the circumstances, WRSAS should have checked what email Mr R was 
responding to before proceeding to sell his wifes funds. And if it turned out she (or 
Mr R) didnt want to sell them, its likely the adviser would have pushed the point 
further - because he was concerned about the impact of COVID on investments.
He was satisfied that Mr R would not have specifically agreed to sell his wifes shares 
in F because through his own research, he thought there was going to be an upturn.
However Mr R had told the investigator he usually trusted the advisers judgement, 
and he did agree on 23 March 2020 with the recommendation to delay investment 
because market conditions werent right. So the investigator considered that meant 
he would likely have accepted the advice to sell the rest of Mrs Rs portfolio. 
Whilst Mr R might not have checked the accounts online if he wasnt expecting any 
sales, he missed key opportunities when the adviser sent him statements for both 
SIPPs and then again confirmed Mr Rs funds were in cash on 21 August 2020. Mr R 
could then have considered whether to re-purchase the shares in F at that time.
Redress was therefore proposed only in respect of the change of value in F between 
25 March and 21 August 2020, plus £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.Mr R didnt agree with the proposed outcome. In short, he said that if the investigator had 
concluded no instruction was given to sell any holdings, the compensation for the time 
period stated should be based on the value of all those holdings, not just the shares in F. He 
emphasized that he had a background in credit and risk, and understood that the only point 
when you lose in a market downturn is if and when you cash out. He reiterated that he and 
his wife were low risk investors and had plenty of time to wait until retirement.
WRSAS also didnt agree. It said it had been instructed to include the F shares in the overall 
SIPP portfolios. So when the adviser recommended clients should exit the market there was 
no logical reason for treating the F shares differently. It added that the 6 April 2020 email 
enclosing statements was more reliable corroboration of the disputed call note in which 
WRSAS confirmed the sale took place, than Mr Rs later attempts to recall that conversation.
The investigator didnt accept this point in view of the fact that the file evidence showed Mr R 
having difficulty accessing the password-protected attachments to the 6 April 2020 email.
And relying on the access log for the adviser led account only, it didnt appear Mr R had 
gone online at all.
Ive issued a provisional decision on Mr Rs separate complaint on 19 August 2022, in which 
I concluded that it would be more appropriate for WRSAS original offer of £5,000 to Mr and 
Mrs R jointly to be reinstated. As such, I said to both parties (where Mr R is also 
representing his wife in her complaint) that my provisional conclusions would apply to both 
complaints, with the payment of £5,000 apportioned between the two of them. Ill revisit the 
reasons for that provisional decision in the final decision below.
Mr R responded to say he was unhappy with the change of outcome. He noted I had 
acknowledged that the adviser was specific in stating they would await his permission to 
encash all funds by return  permission which he did not give either for himself or Mrs R. 
WRSAS said it was disposed to accept the provisional decision, and was willing to pay a 
total of £5,000 to Mr and Mrs R in full and final settlement in whatever proportions suited 
them. We relayed this offer to Mr R who said that neither he nor his wife would accept it 
without me making a final decision on the complaints. He asked that I reconsider reverting to 
the compensation methodology set out in the investigators original view, as he believed he 
had made clear that they would not have agreed to the selling of the shares in F due to his 
particular interest in that company. As such, he considered that to be a fairer outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that Mr R didnt give an unequivocal instruction that he was 
accepting WRSAS recommendation to delay further investment into the market (the email 
he replied directly to) - as well as its recommendation to sell all holdings (the all clients 
email he didnt reply directly to). But crucially, I dont think the investigator has taken into 
account that Mr R acting on behalf of his wife, and not just WRSAS, should have 
appreciated that there was some ambiguity in his instruction.
Mr R and the adviser had been talking about uncertainty in the markets  that was the 
reason why the adviser recommended against further investment in F and delaying investing 
in FTSE stocks. Its evident that despite showing earlier keenness in F, Mr R concurred with 
the adviser on this occasion. Although the timing was unfortunate, because the adviser was 
responding on 23 March to an email Mr R sent on 16 March  so, either side of the all 
clients email  its clear that the all clients email was borne out of the same concerns.Ive also taken into account that the 20 March all clients email requested a response from 
Mr R which, in the circumstances, I think it would have been reasonable for him to provide  
to prevent the confusion that would otherwise arise for both his and his wifes SIPPs given 
that he was accepting the recommendation to defer investment in the 23 March email. As 
Mr R has said, it was a serious matter for them to consider whether or not to exit the market 
entirely. So I find it unusual that he would not want to ensure that there was no potential for 
confusion in the response he gave to one, but not the other, email. 
Mr R has referred to his background in credit and risk and I note he was a director of a 
number of companies. So, I consider he would have appreciated the importance of giving 
clear instructions, given in particular that he was acting on behalf of his wife, and the 
ambiguity that might result by him not confirming directly in response to the all clients email 
that he did not want to sell the existing holdings. I therefore think both WRSAS and Mr R 
missed opportunities to ensure that his instructions as to what recommendation Mrs R was 
accepting were clear and understood.
WRSAS hasnt made an audio recording of the 3 April 2020 phone call (and it was under no 
obligation to do so). So Ive also considered what, on the balance of probabilities, is likely to 
have been discussed in that call. I think WRSAS point that the length of time Mr R has left it 
to question these events  compounded by the opportunities he missed later to identify that 
they were in cash  is a fair one. I think this weakens Mr Rs assertions as against the 
contemporaneous note made by WRSAS of what was discussed in this call.
Both parties made time for this discussion at short notice, and Im satisfied from the available 
evidence that they both had concerns about potential market movements. I accept that those 
concerns could have existed whether Mr R knew his wife was fully in cash, or wrongly 
believed she continued to hold some assets (but was nonetheless keen to invest in further 
stocks at the most opportune time). 
Ive considered Mr Rs point that he wouldnt have asked for a SIPP statement if Mrs R was 
fully in cash, but again I think this cuts both ways. Its plausible that he may have asked for 
the statement to see where she ended up, as sales had been made quickly in a falling 
market. It can be seen from the F shares in particular that losses had been crystallised. 
I also think Mr R might reasonably have appreciated the ambiguity that existed given hed 
failed to confirm if Mrs R wanted to sell existing holdings to cash  and the message he got 
from WRSAS on 25 March that it had sold all holdings for those who had agreed to do so.  
The further reassurance in the email appears to be given on the basis that the recipient has 
switched. So again, I think it would have been reasonable for Mr R to check his wifes 
statement to make sure WRSAS hadnt believed she was one of the people who had agreed 
to do so.
The investigator didnt consider Mr R could reasonably have acted on the information in the 
April 2020 statement because he didnt have the password to read it, but I dont agree with 
this. Mr R asked WRSAS for the password which it provided on 13 April. I conclude from this 
that Mr R evidently did want to view the attachments, which were statements for both his and 
Mrs Rs SIPPs. And as Mr R didnt then notify WRSAS of any further difficulty in viewing it, 
Im satisfied on balance that he saw both statements on or around 13 April 2020.
On reading Mrs Rs statement I dont think Mr R could have been left in any doubt that all of 
her holdings, including the shares in F, had been sold. So it concerns me here how Mr R 
could not have noticed this, or indeed when another statement was provided for his SIPP in 
August 2020, accompanied by specific narrative from WRSAS that he was invested in cash 
(contrary to his understanding).
This leads me to the conclusion that on the balance of probabilities, Mr R did come to understand that WRSAS had switched Mrs R fully into cash  whether or not he and his wife 
had originally made their minds up on whether to do this by 23 March. I do understand his 
point that it would not have made sense for him to sell Mrs Rs F shares so soon after buying 
them, but by late March 2020 they had just taken a fall from around 22p to 14.5p. Whereas 
clearly, Mr R had instructed their purchase expecting them to go up in value. 
Even though they had recovered that loss by mid-April, its entirely possible in my view that 
Mr R had reflected that hed mis-timed the purchase the previous month. With the market 
impacts of COVID worsening, he may then not have been as confident that further gains 
would materialise. (With hindsight we know there was then a steeper rise from about 28p to 
42p between August 2020 and January 2021, which I note is when Mr R asked to sell his 
wifes F shares.)
I wont go through all other shares Mrs R held in detail, but suffice it to say that the FTSE-
100 index was also very volatile during the rest of 2020 and did not perform as well 
subsequently as the F shares. As WRSAS noted in its follow-up all clients email, the FTSE-
100 did rebound sharply during April and May - recovering up to half of its previous losses - 
but then fell back towards its previous trough by October 2020 before recovering again. Its 
possible to see that there were opportunities to go back into the market and mitigate some of 
the losses Mrs R crystallised in March 2020, but this is much easier to see with hindsight 
that neither Mr R nor the adviser possessed at the time.
In my view the lack of immediate action Mr R took in response to learning of the sales to 
cash constituted an acceptance of the position  for better or worse  that both he and his 
wife had ended up in. That does not excuse WRSAS own failings to ensure that it had taken 
clear, unequivocal, instructions from Mr R. But it does pose a problem for Mrs R to recover 
the losses caused by WRSAS failings, because Mr R (on her behalf) was then in a position 
to react to the situation that he considers WRSAS wrongly put them in, but did not do so. 
Had the markets continued to fall  and fallen further than they did in October 2020  Mrs R 
might then have benefited from the sale to cash. So I have to be mindful of the possibility 
that this was why she and Mr R accepted the position as it was as the time.
The actions Mrs R could have taken instead of accepting that position  which would have 
strengthened her complaint now  might have included her (or Mr R on her behalf) 
attempting to repurchase those assets they hadnt wanted to be sold. Or, if they were 
unhappy that they would be repurchasing them at a loss, complaining to WRSAS promptly 
that it was responsible for that loss.
Im also not sure why the investigator focused on logins to the adviser led account to show 
that Mr R didnt use his online access between March 2020 and February 2021. We asked 
the SIPP provider for evidence of when he (rather than an adviser) accessed the account 
and it gave us details of the client led account as well as the adviser led one. These show 
there were a further three logins to the client led account in July 2020 alone, all of which 
pre-date when WRSAS specifically reminded Mr R in the 21 August email that he was fully 
invested in cash. And there appear to be many more logins after that point, as well as a 
further September 2020 statement for Mr R again showing no holdings in F.
When corresponding with the adviser on 3 March 2020 Mr R said that he had logged into his 
account. So I take from this that he knew how to do so  and a belief that he and Mrs R were 
still invested at a time when there plainly were concerns at the state of the markets, gave 
him a basis for logging in. So I think Mr R likely did go online, but even if Im wrong on that 
Im satisfied that he knew as a result of WRSAS emailing him statements as early as April 
2020 that Mrs R was fully invested in cash - and neither he nor Mrs R acted on that 
information.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Rs comment that he and his wife were low risk investors assists their case. Whilst I accept volatility is not the same thing as risk, attitude to risk is 
often measured in terms of how an investor reacts to shorter-term fluctuations. For example 
if a low risk investor experiences a fall of over 20% in their investment, they may want to 
(reluctantly) sell to cash rather than risk a further fall. Whilst clearly not an ideal scenario it is 
a question of whether they have the appetite to accept a 40% or 50% fall, before hopefully 
the assets recover in the medium to longer term  and some low risk investors would not.
Doing as Mr R says and riding out the storm is not without risk. It can be seen in this case 
that the FTSE-100 took about two years to return to its 2020 peak. And as the fate of 
investments was generally seen as being intertwined with the COVID pandemic, which was 
an unprecedented situation, it would have been difficult to predict at that time how long that 
might take. So, what Mr R says of their attitude to risk does not make it unlikely in my view 
that Mrs R would have agreed to switch to cash  or come to accept that it might have been 
the right call for the adviser to have done so, given what they knew in April 2020.
By not raising this issue with WRSAS as soon as she (or Mr R on her behalf) ought 
reasonably to have been aware of it, Mrs R in my view knowingly remained out of the 
markets. Its not fair or reasonable in my view for her to then expect WRSAS to underwrite, 
through this complaint, the investment risks she was not herself prepared to take. But as I 
said earlier in these findings, this does not excuse WRSAS shortcomings in not ensuring it 
had a clear, unequivocal instruction from Mrs R. Ive taken this into account in what I 
consider fair compensation should be in this complaint.
Putting things right
WRSAS already made an offer of £5,000 to Mr and Mrs R jointly which it then said was 
withdrawn. I appreciate it is now willing to extend that offer to them again in agreement with 
my provisional decision. 
For completeness I should say that this service does not automatically require all offers 
made prior to our involvement to be reinstated, but there are some situations where I think 
the circumstances of the case justify this  and I Ive already said in my provisional decision 
that I think this is one of those cases. In essence, I think WRSAS proposal for resolving the 
complaint was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances, and did not need to be 
replaced with the investigators proposal.
I also appreciate that Mr R would prefer the investigators proposal  which he previously 
rejected for himself and Mrs R  to be put back on the table. I understand his point that 
WRSAS said it would await their permission before selling all the shares - so as it did not 
explicitly gain that permission, the further passage of time should not prevent Mrs R from 
recovering those losses. Particularly in respect of the shares in F which he is most 
concerned about. Indeed, the investigators view provided for Mrs R not benefiting from the 
delay by limiting compensation to the period up to August 2020 when Mr R was told (in my 
view, reminded) that they were in cash. So in view of Mr Rs concerns I have again 
considered whether a formulaic approach to compensation could be used to provide fair 
redress in this case.
As will be clear from my findings above, I consider the date of 21 August 2020 that the 
investigator used was the wrong date in any event  as Mr R ought to have seen that Mrs R 
was now invested in cash when he asked for the correct password to check the statements 
emailed to him on or around 13 April 2020. The investigators view also acknowledged the 
uncertainty around whether Mrs R would have been willing to retain all of her shares  
against WRSAS advice  rather than just the shares in F. He gave Mrs R the benefit of the 
doubt just on the F shares on the basis that she had only recently purchased them. 
The rapidly changing market situation at that time, prompted by the COVID pandemic, means in my view that there was some very real doubt here as to what Mrs R would have 
wanted to do  and that was reflected in WRSAS offer which was based on a nominal sum 
rather than a formulaic award. Having reflected on this, I still have concerns that it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold WRSAS to the performance of the investments - even if that was 
taken only to 13 April 2020, and on the shares in F alone. 
Im persuaded that WRSAS had already made a fair and reasonable offer to Mr and Mrs R 
based on the particular circumstances of this complaint. These include that the adviser was 
the professional in this transaction and should have acted more diligently, but I can see to 
some extent how WRSAS misunderstood Mr Rs partial acceptance and partial silence in 
response to its advice. And I think some reliance has to be placed on Mr Rs responsibility, 
including that which he took on his wifes behalf, to check the statements after contributing 
towards that confusion.
Whilst the evidence on balance suggests Mr (and Mrs) R accepted the cash position they 
ended up in at the time, I think they might have been left with the feeling that WRSAS had 
jumped the gun on making the switch before they had time to properly consider (or had 
finished considering) it. That would have left them in an upsetting position and made it 
harder to then move forward with deciding when to re-enter the market. I think that position 
is adequately taken into account in the size of the offer WRSAS made. 
Each SIPP is individually held, so Mr and Mrs Rs complaints have been registered 
individually with this service. WRSAS has said it is willing to split the £5,000 into whatever 
proportions suited them, and Ive had nothing further from Mr or Mrs R in this regard. So, in 
order to issue two decisions that are capable of being accepted by Mr and Mrs R individually 
I will divide the £5,000 up in proportion to the value of assets WRSAS sold to cash for each 
of them on 23 March 2020. That produces a sum of £1,200 to be paid by WRSAS to Mrs R.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Rs complaint in part, and require WR Simon Ashley Silver Independent 
Financial Advisor LImited to pay her compensation of £1,200 in full and final settlement of 
this complaint, if she accepts my final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman