DRN-3272734
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy XL Insurance Company SE declined his sickness claim under his Partner 
Protection policy.
What happened
Mr M holds a Partner protection policy with XL through his employer. This policy provides 
him with set benefits in certain situations, such as severe sickness preventing him from 
working.
Mr M put in a claim under his policy in April 2020. Hes explained that on 24 March 2020 he 
called 111 as he was experiencing coronavirus symptoms. He was issued with an Isolation 
note which said hed been told to stay off work. The note was dated to start on 24 March 
2020 and end on 30 March 2020.
XL declined Mr Ms claim as it said the personal details on the note didnt match his policy 
details. So it couldnt be sure that it was Mr M who was unwell. Mr M disagreed and brought 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator contacted XL and asked for more information on the complaint. It provided a 
one-page summary in December 2021. This simply said Mr Ms name and date of birth didnt 
match his NHS note. Since then our service has contacted XL on a number of occasions to 
obtain documentary evidence of its position, but we havent had a full response to this 
request. So the investigator carried out a no-file view in November 2021 and upheld Mr Ms 
complaint on the basis the personal details he provided us matched both the NHS Isolation 
note and his driving license. XL didnt reply to this assessment, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M brought a second complaint to our service which related to a different claim under his 
policy in 2020. On this complaint I can see the personal details for his cover; and these 
match what we hold on file for Mr M and also match his NHS Isolation note. Its possible his 
information has been updated, but as XL hasnt replied to any of our file requests, I cant 
know this. What I can see is Mr Ms details on his drivers license and our case, both match 
the Isolation note. And these details do also match what I can now see are the details for his 
policy with XL, provided to us in January 2022, but relating to a different 2020 claim. 
Without any information from XL to explain its stance, I cant agree its acted fairly. Ive seen 
nothing that shows Mr Ms personal details didnt match his Isolation note from the NHS. Our 
records suggest it does have the correct details. So on that basis, I cant agree it was fair for 
XL to decline Mr Ms claim on these grounds.
Our investigator set out that XL should pay the value of this claim, subject to the remaining 
terms and conditions. I agree with this, as its not our role to assess claims, only the actions 
of XL. So this means XL will now need to revisit Mr Ms claim. Its possible it may need 
further information from him in order to determine if, had it not been for the confusion around 
his name and date of birth, this claim would have been successful. I encourage Mr M to work 
with XL in this situation. 
Putting things right
XL Insurance Company SE needs to reassess Mr Ms claim under the remaining policy 
terms, accepting that the Isolation note provided is for him. If this leads to a successful claim, 
it should award 8% simple interest on this payment from the date the claim should have 
been paid, until the date it is paid.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint against XL Insurance Company 
SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman