DRN-4353783
The complaint
Miss S complained about delays that occurred during the process of arranging a cash ISA 
transfer from her previous ISA provider (whom Ill refer to as V) to M&G Securities 
Limited.(M&G)
What happened
Here is a brief timeline showing key dates:
12 May 2022  M&G received Miss Ss completed transfer request from V to M&G
27 June 2022  M&G sent the paperwork to V at the address noted on the transfer Miss S 
had completed.
14 July 2022  chaser email sent from M&G to V
29 July 2022  further chaser email sent from M&G to V.
12 August 2022  V advised it did not recognise the account number quoted on Miss Ss 
transfer request. M&G checked this with Miss S and reiterated this information to V.
17 August 2022  chaser email sent from M&G to V. Miss S passed on information that V 
had told her and confirmed to M&G the address details they should be using, which were 
slightly different to those on the transfer form.
18 August 2022  M&G reissued the paperwork to the updated address. M&G received a 
further email saying the account number wasnt recognised as one of Vs.
27 August 2022  on receipt of a secure message from Miss S requesting cancellation of the 
transfer request from V, M&G arranged to cancel the transfer.
M&G and V both accepted they were responsible for some service failings during the 
transfer process. When Miss S complained, M&G paid her £150 compensation by way of an 
apology for delays on its part that it agreed had contributed to the transfer taking so long to 
complete. 
An investigator at this service felt that M&G should pay Miss S a further £150 to properly 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by delays it was responsible for. She 
recommended that M&G should also pay redress if Miss S had suffered any investment loss. 
Miss S agreed with this assessment of her complaint. M&G however felt that an extra £100 
was a fairer payment in respect of trouble and upset and also said it wasnt appropriate that 
it should complete the loss test suggested by the investigator as this would mean M&G was 
responsible for all the service failures that occurred during this period, which wasnt the 
case. M&G said that even if it hadnt delayed and sent the transfer request earlier, there was 
nothing to suggest that V would have acted any differently and that the transfer would have 
been completed within 30 days.
Miss S initially said she was happy to settle her complaint against M&G on receipt of the 
extra £100 as she felt that V was mainly responsible for what happened. And M&G has 
confirmed that it has made the additional £100 payment to Miss S. There was a further 
exchange of correspondence and as some key complaint issues remained unresolved, 
including the issue of investment loss, the complaint came to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
As I understand things, the crux of Miss Ss complaint about M&G is that it played a part in 
delaying the cash ISA transfer she wanted to make from V to M&G. The background facts 
are not in dispute and M&G has upheld Miss Ss complaint and agreed that it was 
responsible for delays when dealing with the transfer from V. So I dont need to say more 
about what happened or make any findings about whats already been agreed. 
In my decision, I will concentrate on the question of fair redress, which is the main concern 
now and the reason Miss S has requested this ombudsman referral.
HMRC guidance says that transferring a cash ISA should take no longer than 15 working 
days. So its completely understandable that the delay Miss S encountered during this 
attempted transfer was a source of frustration and anxiety  to the extent that some three 
months into the process, she decided to cancel the planned move from V to M&G and do 
something else instead. Its fair that the compensation she receives properly reflects the 
impact on her of M&Gs service failings on this occasion.
So I have first considered if there was any financial impact. I appreciate that Miss S is concerned about investment loss. But, so far as M&G is 
concerned, I dont find that it was responsible for any investment loss. 
I think it's fair to say that even if M&G had not delayed dealing with its side of the transfer 
process, there were other considerations beyond its control that would still have held up the 
transfer process  which is what happened in the event. I havent seen enough to show 
that, but for M&Gs delays, Miss S would have invested her cash before the date she 
cancelled the transfer from V to M&G. 
And when Miss S subsequently decided not to go ahead with this transfer, this brought to 
an end M&Gs involvement in the transfer to V and it had no further responsibility for what 
happened to the cash ISA held with V.
I understand that Miss S already held a stocks and shares ISA with M&G when she decided 
to arrange the transfer of her cash ISA from V to M&G. And as a result of her frustration 
with the way M&G had handled the planned transfer from V she decided to encash and 
transfer her M&G ISA to a different provider. 
Although Miss S incurred a penalty when she did this, it was her decision to move her ISA 
and she understood that she would incur a penalty and said she was prepared to accept 
this. 
Shes also said that by the time she was able to reinvest the market had moved against her 
 leaving her worse off than she wouldve been had she been able to reinvest sooner. But I 
am considering the question of potential investment loss arising as a result of delays in 
connection with the transfer of Miss Ss cash ISA from V. Ive seen no information showing 
that M&G delays frustrated any particular trades Miss S had lined up before Miss S decided 
not to go ahead with the transfer to M&G. 
So I havent seen enough to hold M&G responsible for any investment loss or other 
financial loss. 
I can see how M&Gs handling of matters wouldve caused Miss S distress and 
inconvenience but I think the payments it has made are fair compensation for this. M&G has 
apologised and paid an amount that is in line with the level of award I consider fair to reflect 
the extent and impact on Miss S of the service failings on M&Gs part. I dont think it would 
be fair to ask M&G to make any additional payment here.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Miss S for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any 
further evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For these reasons, I havent upheld this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman