DRN-2630690
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim he made under his home insurance policy which he jointly holds with Mrs P.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr P registered a claim with his insurer, Lloyds for an escape of water he said 
was caused by a leak. Mr P had paid a plumber to carry out repairs to their bathroom. Mr P 
said other rooms were damaged due to the leak.
Lloyds instructed a contractor to visit Mr and Mrs Ps home and Mr P provided a copy of the 
plumbers invoice for the repairs. 
In August 2020 Lloyds called the plumber to establish if a leak had occurred as it wasnt 
clear from the invoice. After speaking with the plumber, Lloyds declined the claim. It said the 
damage had been caused by a failure in the sealant and grout, and cover in these 
circumstances was excluded under the policy.
However, Lloyds said it had wrongly led Mr P to believe his claim would be settled by way of 
a cash settlement. It apologised to Mr P and for this error it paid him £100 compensation. 
Mr P asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought the complaint shouldnt be 
upheld, based on the information Lloyds had been given by the plumber - as the policy 
excluded cover for the cause of damage.
Mr P didnt agree. He said the leak was caused by an issue with the connections between 
the bath and shower, which the plumber also had to repair. He says the plumbers report is 
wrong. He says his home has water damage which he wants Lloyds to repair. 
As Mr P didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ps policy provides cover in the event of an escape of water. But, like most home 
insurance policies Ive seen, it excludes cover for loss or damage caused by issues that 
have been caused by a lack of maintenance  in this case  a failure or lack of sealant and 
grout. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call between Lloyds and the plumber Mr P instructed to 
carry out repairs. And Ive looked at the invoice the plumber provided setting out the repairs. 
In the call Lloyds asked the plumber where the leak was coming from  as this isnt 
confirmed in his invoice. The plumber said it was coming from around the bath and the 
shower over the bath. He said the grout was damaged and water was seeping down behind 
the grout and the tiles. He said he had to remove the tiles, and reseal. He said the water had 
gone behind the tiles to the floor and the timber was rotten. 
The plumber had written on the invoice that he repaired a leak under and around the bath. 
He went on to say he removed the tiles and bath panel. There was an ingress of water from 
the shower, and he replaced tiles around the bath with new tile adhesive and grout. He also 
resealed the bath panel and around the bath. 
The plumber doesnt mention a leak coming from the bath or shower connections as Mr P 
described  either on the invoice or in the call with Lloyds. So I think the information shows 
that the escape of water was due to a failing in the sealant and grout. And so it follows that I 
think Lloyds decision to decline the claim  based on what it had  was reasonable and in 
line with the policy. 
Lloyds accepts that it led Mr P to believe it would meet his claim and discussed ways to 
settle it before it spoke to the plumber. For failing to manage Mr Ps expectations, Lloyds 
apologised and paid compensation of £100. I think this is fair and in line with awards we give 
in similar circumstances. 
I understand Mr and Mrs P will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think Lloyds 
reached its decision in a fair way - as theres no evidence that the cause of damage was 
covered under the policy. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman