DRN-1676112
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Paratus AMC Limited (trading as Foundation Home Loans) wont 
extend the term of their interest-only mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have an interest-only mortgage with Foundation, the term of which ended in 
August 2020.
Mr and Mrs L have told us that they put their house on the market in 2017, so they could use 
the sale proceeds to repay the mortgage. However, they werent able to secure a buyer and 
so the house remains unsold.
Mr and Mrs L asked Foundation for a five year extension to the term of their mortgage, to 
give them more time to sell the house or explore other options. They also put a proposal to 
Foundation which involved splitting the title deeds and the property into three, and selling 
each part separately, or taking out buy-to-let mortgages to repay the balance to Foundation. 
Foundation declined these requests so Mr and Mrs L complained.
In June 2019 Foundation sent Mr and Mrs L their final response to the complaint. They said 
that due to their policies and procedures, theyre unable to extend the mortgage beyond 
state retirement age and encouraged Mr and Mrs L to seek independent advice about their 
options. They also said that they would work with Mr and Mrs L when the mortgage reaches 
the end of its term, as long as Mr and Mrs L keep them updated with their situation.
Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into things, but 
didnt think it would be in Mr and Mrs Ls best interests for Foundation to extend the term of 
the mortgage for five years. He also didnt think Foundation were acting unreasonably by 
declining Mr and Mrs Ls other proposal to split the title deeds.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the investigators opinion. Theyve also explained that their 
situation has become worsened by the impact of the pandemic, and took a payment holiday 
on the mortgage as a result. Theyre pursuing their plan of splitting off the title deeds, and 
have told us they have an offer for an equity release mortgage that would redeem the 
mortgage with Foundation. But as the completion and splitting of the title deeds needs to 
happen simultaneously, things are taking some time.
They asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint, so the complaints been passed 
to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs L took out this mortgage, they agreed to repay the whole balance in 
August 2020. So as a starting point, I think its reasonable that Foundation are expecting the 
outstanding balance to be repaid now that this deadline has passed.
Mr and Mrs L accept they need to repay Foundation, and Im satisfied theyve been actively 
trying to explore ways they can do this. Its unfortunate they werent able to sell their house 
whilst it was on the market, and they have been exploring other options that may be 
available to them. 
Mr and Mrs L asked Foundation for a five year term extension to give them more time to find 
a feasible way to repay the debt, which Foundation declined. When an interest-only 
mortgage reaches the end of its term, the lender is required to treat borrowers fairly when 
arranging how the mortgage balance is going to be repaid. The regulators rules require the 
lender to give consideration to any proposals that are made by the borrower, and think about 
whether it would be in the borrowers best interests to accept a request made for an 
extension before making a decision. 
Foundation have said that due to their policies, theyre unable to extend the mortgage 
beyond retirement age  but are willing to work with Mr and Mrs L when it comes to 
redeeming the mortgage. Im not satisfied the reason given by Foundation for declining the 
term extension shows theyve considered whether or not it would be in Mr and Mrs Ls best 
interests to accept their request for more time. However, having considered Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be in their best interests to extend the mortgage 
for another five years. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs L had their house on the market for around 2-3 years without being able to 
secure a buyer. Its unclear whether they received offers on the property which were 
declined, or whether there just wasnt any interest. But either way, the house went unsold 
and has now been taken off the market. Mr and Mrs L say that if they had another five years, 
that would enable them to either sell the property or find another solution. 
Whilst there is a chance that putting the house back on the market would achieve a sale at 
some point  theres no guarantee that they will receive an acceptable offer, as its assumed 
they havent so far. And it could end up leaving them in a worse position if after that time 
theyre still unable to find a buyer, or are forced to accept a lower offer than theyd like which 
would leave them with fewer options for downsizing etc. Given the uncertainties involved in 
the housing market and fluctuations in house prices, particularly in our current climate, Im 
not persuaded its in Mr and Mrs Ls best interests to delay the repayment of the mortgage 
for another five years, whilst still having to maintain the monthly interest payments.
Mr and Mrs L did also ask Foundation if they could split the title deeds, and sell off other 
parts of the property to redeem the mortgage. Foundation did consider this proposal, but 
found that the valuation of the property would not be sufficient to clear the outstanding 
mortgage debt. Given this proposal would involve making significant changes to the security 
held by Foundation for the mortgage debt, and that it still wouldnt be enough to clear it in 
full, Im not satisfied Foundation declined this proposal unfairly.
However, Mr and Mrs L have told us theyre now trying to simultaneously split the title deeds 
and re-finance. They intend to repay Foundation with the funds from an equity release 
mortgage, and take out buy-to-let mortgages on the other parts of the property for them to 
rent out. They have engaged a solicitor and the process is in motion, but I can appreciate 
this may take some time to execute given the number of different parties and the legal work 
involved.
Foundation have said theyre willing to work with Mr and Mrs L as long as theyre kept 
updated with their plans and co-operate. From what Ive seen, Mr and Mrs L have been pro-active in keeping Foundation updated with their situation and plans, so Id expect this to 
continue. Whilst Mr and Mrs L are trying to pursue their current repayment plan, I think it 
would be reasonable for Foundation to give them some time for this to be executed. Its 
difficult to say how long this may take, so its important that all parties continue to engage 
and co-operate with each other whilst progress is made.
I also appreciate that things have been made more difficult by the global pandemic, and Im 
sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs L have been directly affected. I can appreciate that would only 
have added to an already stressful situation.  Im pleased to hear that Foundation have given 
Mr and Mrs L forbearance in light of whats happened, and I would expect Foundation to 
continue to treat Mr and Mrs L in line with the relevant FCA guidance when deciding what 
action to take.
In summary, Im not persuaded Foundation have acted unfairly by declining Mr and Mrs Ls 
proposals, but I do think they should allow a reasonable amount of time for them to be able 
to re-finance before taking any further action.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman