DRN-3501415
The complaint
Mr A with the help of a professional representative complains that Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) into 
a Section 32.
What happened
In 1987 Mr As OPS was wound up. Legal & General took on the administration of the plan.
In 1990 Mr A transferred his benefits worth just over £3,500 into a Section 32 with a firm that 
Phoenix Life is now responsible for (for ease ill just refer to the firm as Phoenix Life).
Mr As pension transfer, upon his request, was considered during the Pension Review. The 
Pension Review looked at certain sales of personal pension policies between 29 April 1988 
and 30 June 1994 and took place as there were concerns about the mis-selling of personal 
pension policies.
During the review process Phoenix Life got in contact with Legal & General to find out more 
about Mr As plan. And it responded to explain that as administrators of the wound-up 
scheme it had offered members of the scheme either to take deferred annuities with it or 
they could transfer out and purchase a Section 32 with another provider. Legal and General 
also said that the regulator at the time had confirmed that a transfer from an OPS that was 
being discontinued did not require a Pension Review. It said this plan fell into that category. 
Phoenix Life then wrote to Mr A in 2001 to let him know his transfer wouldnt be reviewed.
More recently Mr As representatives complained about the transfer to Phoenix Life. It 
responded to say that during the scheme winding up process employees would have been 
presented by the Trustees with information and options available. It said Mr A wouldve also 
had the opportunity to transfer to other Section 32 providers and Phoenix Life didnt provide 
advice. It said if Mr A was provided with advice, he should complaint to that firm.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think Phoenix Life had provided advice so 
didnt uphold the complaint. Mr As representatives responded to say that a Section 32 was a 
registered pension and so advice had to be given. And the fact that Phoenix Life initiated the 
review shows it is responsible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I wont be upholding this complaint, I will explain why.
Ultimately, there is no evidence to suggest Phoenix Life gave advice to Mr A or did anything 
wrong.
Mr A came to have a plan with Phoenix Life after his OPS was wound-up, it appears Mr A 
had no option to remain in the OPS. He could either have a deferred annuity with Legal & 
General or transfer to a Section 32 with another provider. Legal & General, the 
administrators of the OPS once it was wound up, explained to Phoenix Life that the 
members were given a choice about what to do and it said it offered a transfer to other 
providers as part of this exercise. It also explained that this activity was excluded from the 
review and it made no mention of any advice being given to the members.
Mr As representatives have stated that at this point in time, transfers to a Section 32 had to 
be advised but it didnt provide any evidence corroborating this statement. I dont think this is 
correct. And even if it is, theres no evidence Phoenix Life gave advice. The wind-up of the 
OPS required members to make a choice about their deferred benefits. And this was a fairly 
common occurrence during this period of time, its my understanding that this process didnt 
require advice.
Phoenix Life did look into whether it needed to consider Mr As case as part of the Pension 
Review. But its decision not to review the case was in line with the regulatory guidance as 
this type of activity was excluded from the Pension Review.  As set out in SIB Pension 
Transfers and Opt-Outs Review of Past Business: Part II: Specification of Standards and 
Procedures 106: 
106 The following cases should be excluded from the review:
(a) Transfers imposed by occupational scheme trustees (eg on winding up or bulk 
transfers).
So I think Phoenix Life was right to tell Mr A his case didnt need to be reviewed. And as 
there is also no evidence it provided Mr A with advice, I dont think there is anything to say 
Phoenix Life is responsible for Mr As decision to transfer.
In conclusion the evidence suggests Mr A couldnt remain within his OPS in any event and 
that Phoenix Life didnt give him advice to transfer. Therefore, Phoenix Life doesnt have to 
do anything to put things right.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman