DRN-4260682
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (HDi) declining 
claims under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to HDi include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In February 2023 Mrs P had treatment for her dog, which was suffering from rheumatoid 
arthritis in its front paws and shoulders (first observed and treated in April 2022). Mrs P 
made two claims for the cost of treatment as the treatment fell into two policy years (£589.13 
and £429.49).
However, HDi said they wouldnt accept the claims, as review of the dogs clinical history 
contained a comment in October 2019 (before Mrs Ps policy began in September 2020) 
referring to severe osteoarthritis in RH hock (right hind leg, hock being located below the 
knee and corresponding to the ankle joint in a human). They said it showed the dog had a 
pre-existing condition, before the policy was taken out. Pre-existing conditions werent 
covered under the policy. 
Mrs P was unhappy about HDis decline of her claims, saying her claims were for the front 
paws and shoulder, not the hind leg. The latter condition was caused by an injury to the leg 
in 2014, which over time had healed and partially fused, leading to the onset of arthritis. The 
other hind leg didnt have any problems. So, she maintained the arthritis in the front paws 
and shoulder was unrelated to the arthritis in the hind leg. She also said the vet said the 
arthritis in the front paws and shoulder was a type of rheumatoid arthritis (an autoimmune 
condition) whereas the arthritis in the hind leg was osteoarthritis (from joint wear and tear). 
So, she didnt think the arthritis in the front paws and shoulder was a pre-existing condition.
HDi treated her challenge as a complaint, but they didnt uphold it. In their final response 
they referred to the initial decline of the claims based on a pre-existing condition (the first 
signs or symptoms were noticed prior to the start of the policy). HDi also referred to the 
clinical notes comment in October 2019 and said the clinical history showed ongoing issues, 
the onset of which was prior to the start of the policy (based on when the condition was first 
seen  not when it was diagnosed). 
Mrs P then complained to this service. She maintained the two conditions were unrelated, 
affecting different areas of the dog. And one was joint-related osteoarthritis and the other 
rheumatoid arthritis. Shed had to pay for the cost of treatment, and her dog would need 
continuing treatment (injections) for the condition (the arthritis in the front paws and 
shoulder). The cost of treatment would represent a large part of her income. She wanted HDi 
to pay her claims and agree to cover the cost of the ongoing treatment of her dog. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ps complaint, concluding HDi hadnt acted fairly. She didnt 
think HDi had done enough to demonstrate the arthritis in the front paws and shoulder was 
pre-existing, nor that it was related to the arthritis in the hind leg. The clinical history didnt 
indicate the onset of arthritis in the front paws and shoulder occurred before the policy start. 
To put things right, she thought HDi should pay Mrs Ps claims in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy and pay £100 compensation for distress caused to Mrs P.
HDi disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They referred to the dogs clinical history and the arthritis in the hind leg (going 
back to 2016, through to October 2019). Which was before the start of the policy. HDi also 
referred to the full policy wording, specifically the definition of illness, which they considered 
meant it was irrelevant where in the dogs body the arthritis affected  the fact the dog had 
been diagnosed and/or showed signs and symptoms of arthritis prior to the policy start made 
the condition pre-existing. HDi also said the clinical history since the policy start indicated the 
treatment administered (particularly an injection at regular intervals) was generalised arthritis 
treatment (not area-specific). So, any arthritis wouldnt be covered under the policy, as the 
first signs or symptoms were present before the start of the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether HDi have acted fairly towards Mrs P. 
The key issue in Mrs Ps complaint is whether HDi acted fairly in declining her claim for 
treatment of her dog. HDis view (as set out in their final response and response to our 
investigators view) is that they correctly declined the claim, on the grounds the dogs clinical 
history indicated a pre-existing condition (arthritis). As a pre-existing condition, it was 
excluded from cover under the policy. Mrs Ps view is that the previous arthritis 
(osteoarthritis in the right hind leg) isnt related to the current arthritis (rheumatoid arthritis in 
the front paws and shoulder). So, the latter isnt a pre-condition, meaning HDi should accept 
her claims.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the policy 
(particularly those referred to by HDi) together with the supporting information and evidence, 
including the clinical history of Mrs Ps dog. In their final response, HDi refer to the following 
summary term in the policy:
Pre-Existing Condition  The first signs or symptoms were noticed prior to the start 
of your policy
While HDi havent referred to it, the Policy Definitions state a Pre-Existing Condition means:
any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from an injury of illness, 
whether diagnosed or undiagnosed that has been identified or investigated by a vet 
or is otherwise known to you prior to the start of the insurance or within the first 14 
days of the policy for illness or 72 hours in the case of injury.
In their response to our investigators view, HDi refer to the policy definition of illness. Ive 
considered the full wording of the definition, but I think the more relevant parts are as 
follows:
Illness/illnesses: changes in your pets state of health that are not caused by an 
accident, or any which may be resulting from gradual or biological cause. Recurring 
and/or on-going illness shall be considered as one loss. Such illness being defined 
as:-
a) Clinical manifestations resulting in the same diagnosis (regardless of the 
number of incidents or areas of the body affected) to which your pet has an on-going predisposition or susceptibility related in any way to the original 
claim; or 
b) Illnesses which are incurable and likely to continue for the remainder of your 
pets life.
For illnesses that can have multiple siteswe shall treat all occurrencesas the 
same illnessif the condition diagnosis by your veterinary surgeon is the same as a 
previous condition, they will be treated as the same condition even if the problem is a 
different part of your pets bodyWe will always treat the same diagnosis as one 
condition irrespective of when or where in your pets body the symptoms are found
For the avoidance of doubt an illness is taken to start from the date the symptoms 
are first noticed, either by you or your vetnot the date the illness is first treated by 
your vet.
Ive then considered the question of whether the dog did have a pre-existing condition, 
specifically, the presence of arthritis. Whats not in doubt is that the dog had [severe] 
osteoarthritis in its right hind leg (hock). And the clinical history references between 2016 
and 2019 referred to by HDi clearly indicate this to be the case. Its also clear the 
subsequent arthritis in the front paws and shoulder cysts was, in the vets opinion and as 
stated in the claim forms, rheumatoid arthritis. So, the key issue is whether the two 
conditions (diagnoses) are the same (as HDi maintain from the policy definitions set out 
above) or (as Mrs P maintains) separate and unrelated because one is osteoarthritis and the 
other is rheumatoid arthritis. 
Having considered the issue carefully, Im more persuaded by the view the two conditions 
arent related and therefore should be considered separate conditions (diagnoses). I say this 
for several reasons. First, Ive not seen any evidence the incidence of osteoarthritis in the 
hind leg meant the dog had (taking the wording of the definition of illness) an on-going 
predisposition or susceptibility related in any way to the original claim. In other words, the 
osteoarthritis didnt mean the dog was likely to develop rheumatoid arthritis (in another area). 
And HDi have not provided any evidence to show this is the case here. 
And I think theres sufficient difference between the two forms of arthritis for them to be 
considered distinct diagnoses (conditions). Which would be consistent with the vet making 
the two diagnoses (rather than simply diagnosing the general term arthritis).
Ive also considered the general principle, where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus 
is on them to show its reasonable to apply it. So, the onus isnt on Mrs P to show the two 
conditions are unrelated (so there isnt a pre-condition), Its on HDi to show they are related 
(so there is a pre-condition). Taking all the points set out above into account, Im not 
persuaded HDi have shown enough to apply the exclusion for a pre-existing condition in the 
circumstances of this case. So, Ive concluded HDi acted unfairly to apply the exclusion to 
decline Mrs Ps claims.
Given these conclusions, Ive thought about what HDi need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion for pre-existing condition to decline the claims, they 
should settle the claims in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits on the costs of treatment; any policy excess; and any co-payment 
proportion (as appropriate). 
If HDi settle the claim, they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% simple on the amount 
accepted, from the date Mrs P paid the vets bill, to the date they settle the claim. In her complaint, Mrs P asked that HDi also pay for the ongoing costs of treatment of her 
dog. However, this decision focuses on the decline of her claims for treatment as submitted 
to HDi. While future claims for treatment of the arthritis in the front paws and shoulder would 
need to be assessed under the policy terms and conditions (as I would any other future 
claims) given my conclusion HDi didnt act fairly in applying the pre-existing condition 
exclusion to decline the claims submitted by Mrs P, then I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to use the same exclusion to decline any claims for ongoing treatment directly 
associated with the arthritis in the front paws and shoulder.
 
But as the osteoarthritis in the right hind leg clearly pre-dates the start of the policy, I 
wouldnt expect claims for treatment directly associated with that condition to be covered 
under the policy. This would also cover HDis point about the ongoing treatment being 
general for arthritis. While treatment may be the same, I dont think that means the 
conditions (diagnoses) for which the treatment is prescribed are the same.
Ive also considered what Mrs P had told us about the impact of having her claims declined. I 
think this will have caused her distress and inconvenience. Considering the circumstances of 
the case, I think £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience would be reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I require 
HDi Global Specialty SE to:
Settle Mrs Ps claims in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy, 
including any limits on the costs of treatment; any policy excess; and any co-payment 
proportion (as appropriate).
Pay Mrs P £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If HDi Global Specialty SE settle the claims, they should also pay interest at a rate of 8% 
simple on the amount settled, from the date Mrs P paid the vets bill to the date they settle 
the claims (subject to Mrs P evidencing payment of the bills).
If HDi Global Specialty SE consider theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs P how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
HDi Global Specialty SE must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell them Mrs P accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman