DRN-3674229
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) has unfairly refused to 
refund over £20,000 he says he lost as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr B authorised the disputed payments he made to his crypto 
wallet using his mobile banking and Natwest debit card (where his funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammers from the crypto platform). The payments 
were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials provided by Natwest, and 
the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Natwest should have done more to prevent Mr B from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr B has lost over £20,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over 13 separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not have 
appeared particularly unusual or out of character, such that they ought to have been 
regarded as suspicious or indicating that he might have been at risk of falling victim to a 
scam. The largest payment he made was for £5,000, for example, and by this point he 
had already made similar large payments to the same payee (such as £3,000 on 30 July 
2021). So, I dont think it would have appeared particularly unusual or have represented 
a significant deviation from his usual spending pattern. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered 
Natwests fraud monitoring systems in these circumstances, or that would have indicated 
Mr B was in the process of being scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether Natwest could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr B reported the fraud, as in some circumstances, money spent via debit card can be 
recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, 
Mr B used his debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platforms before the funds 
were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to make a 
successful chargeback claim because the company he paid had provided the services as 
intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Natwest were 
under any obligation to raise a chargeback for Mr B either. Similarly, there would have 
been no chance of recovering the faster payments Mr B made to the crypto platforms 
either, given the funds had already been transferred on to the scammer from his 
account.
Natwest are also under no obligation to refund the faster payments Mr B made under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code does not apply to 
transfers which the payer has made to themselves (which would have been the case 
here given the payment was made to Mr Bs crypto wallet before being moved on to the 
scammer). 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr B, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that Natwest can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for his loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman