DRN-3649072
The complaint
Miss S complained because Revolut Ltd refused to refund her for transactions she said she 
didnt make.
What happened
At 7.13 am on 25 October 2021, Miss S contacted Revolut by chat, to dispute a £79.50 
transaction to a pharmacy which had debited her account the previous evening. Miss S had 
used the pharmacy before, so Revoluts adviser told Miss S to contact the retailer to check 
with them.
Three payments then debited Miss Ss Revolut account:
8.34am £299.99
8.42 am £729.00
8.45 am £999.00
All were carried out by contactless card payments.
At 9.13 am, Miss S contacted Revolut again by chat. She said shed lost about £2,500 from 
her account. She said thieves had called her and requested all sorts of information, and 
shed thought it was Revolut ringing. She said she hadnt made any of the three recent 
payments, or the previous days pharmacy payment.
Revolut asked who were the people phoning her, and what information shed given. Miss S 
said shed provided her current balance, full name, phone number and PIN. She said she 
hadnt given her login details. Revolut stopped the card and sent Miss S a form to complete.
Later that day, Revolut decided and told Miss S that it wouldnt refund her for the three 
disputed transactions on 25 October, because it had found no traces of fraudulent activity on 
her account. Miss S complained.
In Revoluts final response, it repeated this. It later refunded her for the disputed pharmacy 
transaction on 24 October, but not for the three on 25 October which totalled £2,027.99. 
Miss S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. She explained that the technical evidence 
showed that the payments had been contactless, and carried out with the genuine card. Miss 
S had confirmed the card was in her possession. The investigator said she found this 
technical evidence more persuasive than Miss Ss testimony. She also noted that Miss S 
had contacted Revolut at 7.13am on 25 October  but hadnt blocked her card until 10:14 
am, after the time of the disputed transactions. And although the investigator had asked Miss 
S for evidence of any calls, messages or emails from a fraudster, to substantiate what shed 
said, she hadnt provided any. So the investigator thought that Miss S had authorised the 
transactions herself, or had given someone else permission to do so.
Miss S didnt accept this. She said she hoped wed find that she was a victim of fraud. She 
said she still had her card, and hadnt disclosed her PIN. She sent a list of her incoming calls 
from a private number which included 25 October. She asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in October 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Revolut) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, Revolut has provided 
technical information from which I can see that all three disputed transactions which Revolut 
refused to refund, were carried out using the genuine contactless card. So the disputed 
payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So Ive gone on to consider whether its 
more likely than not that Miss S authorised the three disputed payments which Revolut 
refused to refund.
Who authorised the three disputed payments?
Miss S said that she still had her card. But the technical evidence shows that the disputed 
transactions were carried out using the genuine physical contactless card. This is the 
fundamental problem about Miss Ss argument that she didnt authorise the transactions.
I recognise that Miss S told Revolut that shed had calls which she thought were from 
Revolut, so she gave the caller her current balance, full name, phone number and PIN. She 
later said that she hadnt provided the PIN. But the PIN wouldnt necessarily have been 
needed anyway for these contactless payments. 
Miss S has recently provided a list of incoming calls on 25 October 2021 from a private 
number. But the list provides no information about what was said on those calls, or indeed 
whether they were from fraudsters  they could have been from any other private number. 
In any event, even if a third party had the details which Miss S has set out, it doesnt change 
the fact that the three disputed transactions were carried out using the genuine physical 
card. And Miss S still had that.
Ive also noted that Miss S first contacted Revolut with a concern about fraudulent 
transaction at 7.13 am on 25 October. But she didnt block her card, which was in her power 
to do, until 10.14 am. I think its likely that if she genuinely hadnt authorised the transactions, 
shed have blocked the card straightaway as soon as she thought anything was wrong.
For these reasons, I think its most likely that Miss S carried out the disputed transactions 
herself. So I dont require Revolut to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman