DRN-3253581
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs R complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mismanaged their
mortgage application.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr R and Mrs R asked for a mortgage illustration to borrow £680,000 from 
Nationwide to finance the purchase of a house costing £800,299. On 22 June 2020, 
Nationwide gave a mortgage illustration which included a tracker rate of 1.74% over base 
rate for two years. There were no early repayment charges. On 9 July 2020, Nationwide 
issued a mortgage illustration for a loan of £680,000. This included a fixed rate of 2.14% 
for two years. On 10 July 2020, Mr R and Mrs R applied for a mortgage, including a fixed 
rate of 2.14% for two years. On 17 August 2020, Nationwide issued a mortgage offer for 
£680,000  with a fixed interest rate of 2.14% for two years. The purchase price later 
changed slightly, and so on 16 October 2020, Nationwide issued a further mortgage offer 
for £680,000  with a fixed interest rate of 2.14% for two years. Both fixed rate mortgage 
offers included early repayment charges (ERC) of between 1% and 2% - depending on the 
time of repayment.
Mr R and Mrs R complained. They said theyd applied for a tracker rate mortgage, not a 
fixed rate mortgage. They always wanted to pay off a large lump sum early in 2021  and 
now they would have to pay an ERC. They told Nationwide that in their calls. They couldnt 
understand how their original application for a tracker mortgage had been changed to a 
fixed rate. Theyd had a lot of service issues through the mortgage process, including 
problems in accessing Nationwides portal  so they couldnt see progress of their 
application, or what the mortgage offers were. These problems had been admitted by 
Nationwide  it must have been something to do with that.
Nationwide said Mr R and Mrs R had applied online for the mortgage  on a non-advised 
basis. This meant that no recommendations were made by Nationwide. The mortgage offer 
dated 17 August 2020 was sent to Mr R and Mrs R and their solicitors. A further offer was 
issued on 16 October 2020, and this was also sent to Mr R and Mrs R, and their solicitors.
Both offers included a two-year fixed rate. There was mention of a tracker rate prior to the 
application being submitted. They couldnt find any mention of a tracker rate other than 
that. If Mr R and Mrs R wanted to switch to a tracker rate now, they would have to pay an 
ERC.
Mr R and Mrs R brought their complaint to us. Our investigator said Mr R and Mrs R  and 
their solicitors  had received the mortgage offers in August 2020 and October 2020  and 
these included fixed rates for two years, and there was an ERC if they wished to pay off a 
lump sum within the two-year period. It looked like this was a genuine mistake by Mr R 
and Mrs R, and Nationwide had acted fairly.
Mr R and Mrs R disagreed. They said Nationwide had admitted there was a problem with 
the portal and emails. And so, theyd not been able to see the mortgage offer. The 
complaint theyd made to Nationwide about the service issues had led to Nationwide 
admitting there had been problems with email and the portal  so it must be their fault. 
There were clearly technical problems at Nationwide which has led to the tracker rate 
being changed to a fixed rate. They asked that their complaint be looked at by an 
ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Mr R and Mrs R complained about various service issues they had with Nationwide  
theyd had problems receiving emails and accessing Nationwides portal. This complaint 
was resolved by Nationwide  who apologised and paid compensation of £100. Mr R and 
Mrs R accepted this outcome. So  I wont look at that complaint here. But I have 
considered it in the context of whether the service problems they had were related to Mr R 
and Mrs Rs complaint which theyve now brought to us  that they wanted a tracker rate, 
not a fixed rate.
Mr R and Mrs R opted for a non-advised mortgage  so they were making the choices 
themselves on Nationwides website. The mortgage offers dated 17 August 2020 and 16 
October 2020 both say, We are not recommending a particular mortgage for you. So  if 
Mr R and Mrs R intended to make a lump sum reduction in the balance, Nationwide 
wouldnt have been able to recommend a suitable mortgage for them which wouldve 
enabled them to do that.
I can see from Nationwides records that Mr R and Mrs R contacted them in June 2020. 
On 22 June 2020 - Nationwide issued a mortgage illustration which included a two-year 
tracker rate of 1.74% over base rate. It didnt have any early repayment fees. But on 9 
July 2020, a further illustration was issued with a two-year fixed rate of 2.14% and an 
application was then made on 10 July 2020, also with the same fixed rate. Following 
underwriter approval, the formal mortgage offer was made on 17 August 2020  including 
the fixed rate.
Ive looked at how the change couldve happened from the tracker rate to a fixed rate. We 
asked Nationwide for the records of their mortgage portal  so we could see who accessed 
the system and made the applications.
On 22 June 2020  the records show that Mr R and Mrs R went online and asked for a 
decision in principle for the mortgage. And this then produced the illustration which showed 
a tracker rate of 1.74% over base rate. So  I can see that Mr R and Mrs R opted for that at 
that time. But I can then see that Mr R and Mrs R went online on 9 July 2020 and set up 
the mortgage illustration  which then included the fixed rate. The following day, they went 
online and applied for the mortgage  and reserved the two -year fixed rate. So   the 
records show that Mr R and Mrs R opted for the fixed rate at that time.
Nationwides underwriters then approved the mortgage, and after that issued a formal 
mortgage offer on 17 August 2020. This also included a two-year fixed rate. I can see that 
this was posted out to Mr R and Mrs Rs home address, and it was also sent to their 
solicitors. Nationwide told us that they dont email the actual mortgage offer  but post it. 
They showed us evidence that they emailed Mr R to say that an offer had been posted. 
The email says, please make sure you read the offer carefully.
Following a small change to the purchase price, on 16 October 2020, a further mortgage 
offer was posted to Mr R and Mrs Rs home address, and to their solicitors. It also 
included the fixed rate. Nationwide showed us evidence that they emailed Mr R to say the 
offer had been posted in the same way as in August 2020.
For me, this is important evidence  that in the two mortgage offers, the fixed rate was 
included  and they were posted to Mr R and Mrs R, and to their solicitors. And  its the formal mortgage offers that are the important documents - they formalise the agreement 
between Nationwide and Mr R and Mrs R.
Mr R and Mrs R have said they had problems accessing the portal and receiving emails. But
 Ive seen that they went onto the portal to request the illustration in July 2020 and then - 
to make the application for the mortgage  so the portal was working for them then. 
Nationwide have told us that they didnt need to access the portal to get the mortgage 
offers. And  even if there were problems with receiving emails  the mortgage offers were 
posted to Mr R and Mrs R  not emailed to them.
Ive listened to all the calls between Mr R and Nationwide in June 2020, July 2020 and 
August 2020  and none of them discuss or mention either a tracker rate or fixed rate, or 
that they intended to make a lump sum payment in the future  the calls were about 
processes and the sending of various documents to Nationwide. I did note that on the call 
between Mr R and Nationwide on 15 October 2020  which was about the change to the 
purchase price - Mr R said, I have the full mortgage offer in place. Nationwide then said 
they would need to send him a further offer because of the change. But  clearly Mr R and 
Mrs R had received the mortgage offer dated August 2020 at that time.
I also listened to the call on 17 August 2020  when Mr R complained to Nationwide about 
the service issues hed had. Nationwide apologised and agreed to pay compensation of
£100  but there wasnt any mention of interest rates or a lump sum reduction. Nationwide 
confirmed that an offer was being posted out that day.
We wondered if it was possible that a member of staff at Nationwide had changed the 
interest rate on the application. But - we looked at Nationwides records and they dont 
show any changes were made.
I can appreciate that Mr R and Mrs R feel strongly about their complaint. Because of what 
happened, they will have to pay an ERC if they pay a large lump sum off their mortgage in 
one go. But it looks to me as though the Therefore, Im not going to ask Nationwide to do 
anymore here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Nationwide agreed. Mr R and Mrs R didnt comment.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Nationwide agreed and Mr R and Mrs R didnt comment, I wont be departing from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman