DRN-3206711
The complaint
Mr B complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited avoided his motorbike policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim. 
A representative is supporting Mr B in bringing this complaint, but for simplicity Ive just 
referred to him in this decision.
What happened
Mr B took out a motorbike policy with Markerstudy online through a price comparison site. 
When his motorbike was stolen on 27 May 2021, he tried to make a claim, but it was turned 
down. 
Markerstudy said hed answered the question they asked about where his motorbike was 
stored overnight incorrectly. They said when Mr B applied online he said the motorbike was 
stored in a shed overnight. When the broker called Mr B to discuss a few questions following 
the claim, they asked about this  and were left with the impression the motorbike wasnt left 
in a shed. And they considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled them to avoid his policy, turn down his claim and keep the premium hed already 
paid  though they did then decide to refund the premium. Markerstudy also said Mr B could 
have checked his statement of fact, which recorded hed said the motorbike was stored 
overnight in a shed.
Mr B brought his complaint to us  explaining hed not made a misrepresentation, and he 
couldnt access the documents online, so he couldnt have checked it. But our Investigator 
thought his complaint shouldnt be upheld. She agreed there had been a qualifying 
misrepresentation which meant Markerstudy were entitled to avoid his policy.
Mr B doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Hes 
explained he did keep the motorbike in a shed, and had one delivered just a few days after 
taking out the policy  which he says he told Markerstudy. He didnt think it fair to rely on a 
phone recording of him taking out the policy, as due to a technical issue it didnt include his 
answers, only the agents replies to his. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Markerstudy thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he stated in his application via a comparison site that the overnight storage location of 
his bike was a garage  but then said it was stored overnight on the road during the claims 
process.
Ive looked at the question Mr B was initially asked through the price comparison site. This 
asks where the bike is kept overnight  and Mr B has chosen Locked garage. A definition is 
then given of a locked garage. 
Follow up questions were then asked in a call between Mr B, and the broker, about where 
the bike was kept overnight. Markerstudy have said during these questions, Mr B said the 
bike was kept in a locked shed.
As Mr B said, the call recording isnt very clear, as I cant hear what he actually says. But, in 
a later call on 3 June 2021, after the claim has been made, hes asked where the bike was 
kept. He explains it was kept on the driveway  as hed not got around to buying the bike 
shed yet. 
Ive noted Mr B has provided some evidence of buying a bike shed  in the form of letters 
and an invoice for one. But I find his comments in this call on 3 June 2021 persuasive 
evidence he didnt yet have a bike shed  as he very clearly, and on several occasions, said 
he didnt have one. So, given that, I cant say Mr B took reasonable care when taking out the 
policy  when he said the bike was kept in a locked garage. 
Because of this, Im satisfied Mr B made a misrepresentation. So, I need to decide if this was 
a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Markerstudy have provided evidence of their underwriting criteria. I cant share it, as its 
commercially sensitive. But it says they wouldnt have provided insurance to Mr B had they 
known his bike wasnt kept in a secured bike shed. This means Im satisfied Mr Bs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Markerstudy have said Mr Bs misrepresentation was careless because he didnt answer 
where the bike was secured correctly. I think thats a fair classification, because Ive not 
seen any evidence Mr B gave the wrong information to gain any advantage such as cheaper 
premiums.
As Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Markerstudy can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Markerstudy were entitled to avoid Mr Bs policy in accordance with CIDRA. And, as this 
means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Markerstudy dont have to deal with his 
claim following the theft of his motorbike. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach 
to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Markerstudy to rely on it to avoid Mr Bs policy 
produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.In light of all of this, I think Markerstudy have acted fairly when avoiding Mr Bs policy, not 
paying his claim, and returning his premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman