DRN-3824388
The complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) failed to link his 
credit card to a points programme operated by a third party. 
What happened
Last year, Mr C opened a new credit card with Amex that offered a points scheme. The 
terms said Mr C could accrue points that would be transferred to the points programme 
provider (B) on a monthly basis. 
In June 2022 Mr C asked Amex to link an account with B. Amex says Mr C gave it a 
membership number and that it contacted B. But Amex received a message that B was 
unable to trace Mr C using the reference provided. A second attempt to transfer the points to 
B was made later that month but the same response was received. 
In the weeks that followed, Mr C had online chats with Amex and raised a complaint. Amex 
sent Mr C a final response but didnt agree it had made mistakes or acted unfairly. 
An investigator at this service looked into Mr Cs complaint. They thought Amex had dealt 
with Mr Cs case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr C asked to appeal, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs told us he feels Amex shouldve done more to liaise with B and resolve the issue with 
linking his credit card points. But Amex has explained that to receive the points, Mr C had to 
provide a valid reference for a membership with B that could be used to link the credit card 
account. Amex forwarded the reference number provided to B twice to try and link an 
account for Mr C. But on both occasions, Amex received confirmation from B that it wasnt 
able to trace Mr Cs membership using the details provided. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but 
Im satisfied Amex took reasonable steps to try and liaise with B and link his credit card to a 
membership. 
When Amex was unable to link the credit card, it asked Mr C to contact B directly and obtain 
the reference or open a membership and provide the details. In my view, that was a 
reasonable approach. Whilst I understand the credit card was operated by Amex, the issue 
here was that Mr Cs membership with B couldnt be located. And B operates its points 
programme independently of Amex. So Im satisfied it was reasonable to ask Mr C to make 
contact directly when its enquiries were unable to locate a membership in his name. 
Mr C asked Amex to delete all information it holds about him. But Mr C held a credit card 
with it for several months and Amex is required to retain information about its current and 
previous customers. If Mr C has further concerns about how Amex has handled his data, he 
has the option of referring the matter to the Information Commissioners Office, the body that 
looks at how businesses handle information. But based on the information Ive seen, I 
havent been persuaded that Amex treated Mr B unfairly. 
As Im satisfied Amex dealt with Mr Cs complaint fairly Im not telling it to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman