DRN-3575254
Complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed his account and then returned 
a payment in his account to its original source, rather than to him.
Background
In June 2021, Santander carried out a review of Mr Rs account after receiving a notification 
from a third-party bank that a payee of funds into Mr Rs account had reported being the 
victim of fraud. Santander completed its review and returned the funds which prompted to 
the review into Mr Rs account to the third-party bank which sent them, rather than releasing 
them to him. Santander also decided to close Mr Rs account.
Mr R was unhappy with Santanders actions and made a complaint. Santander looked at   
Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr R remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to 
our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Rs concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr R disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Santander acted unfairly towards    
Mr R and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
It might help for me to explain that a bank is under no obligation to continue offering an 
account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And, after completing its investigation, 
Santander decided it no longer wished to have Mr R as a customer. 
I know that Mr R is unhappy that Santander has closed his account. And Ive seen that 
Santander provided less notice than the period of time set out in the terms and conditions. 
But good industry practice suggests a bank should give at least 30 days notice before 
closing an account, so as to allow the customer to make alternative arrangements with a 
different bank. I can see that Santander did provide 30 days notice here and so Im not 
persuaded it has treated Mr R unfairly. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr R and I can appreciate why the closure of his 
account will have caused him inconvenience. However, closing a customers account is a 
commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. And Im satisfied that Mr R hasnt been 
treated unfairly in relation to this matter.
Its fair to say that the main reason for Mr Rs unhappiness is down to Santander returning 
some of the money paid into his account to the sender. He says a similar situation occurred 
a few months prior and Santander returned the funds to him after he provided a similar 
explanation and supporting information. 
I accept that Santander might have given Mr R the benefit of the doubt a few months earlier. 
But that doesnt mean that it would continue to do so. Equally, Mr R was already on notice 
that Santander wasnt entirely happy with the way he was operating with his account at this 
stage too. So I think he ought to have appreciated that there was a risk Santander would 
close his account and/or return funds if he continued what he was doing.  
Having considered what Santander relied on when deciding to send the payment in question 
back to the remitting bank, Im satisfied that this was a reasonable course of action in the 
circumstances. And as Mr R knows who sent the funds, he can take the matter up with them 
if he believes that hes legitimately entitled to them. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Santander acted unfairly towards 
Mr R and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for    
Mr R. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why 
Santander was entitled to close his account and return the funds it did to the bank that sent 
them in the first place. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman