DRN-3038544
The complaint
 Mrs B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) continued charging her excessive 
amounts for her overdraft when she was in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Mrs B first complained to BoS about the overdraft charges being applied to her account in 
2007. BoS didnt uphold her complaint at that time. Mrs B made a further complaint in 2019, 
she explained that she was struggling to meet essential expenditure because of the charges 
and that the extra cost was making her overdraft more difficult to repay. She told BoS she 
was unhappy with the charges that had been applied to her account as she felt they had 
contributed to her financial difficulties. BoS didnt uphold the complaint and said it would only 
agree to our service looking at the charges applied from 2013 onwards. And as Mrs B was 
dissatisfied, she referred the complaint to our service.
Mrs Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He agreed with BoS that we 
only had the power to consider charges applied from 2013 onwards. But he also thought that 
BoS ought to have realised that Mrs B was experiencing financial difficulty by December 
2013 and so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point 
onwards. BoS responded to say that it did not think Mrs Bs account activity in 2013 was 
indicative of financial difficulty and so it did not agree to refund the charges applied from 
December 2013. It did though think Mrs Bs account started showing signs of difficulty in 
early 2018 and so has said it would be willing to refund the charges applied to her account 
since then. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Charges applied before July 2013
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. The rules also say I cant look at a complaint made more 
than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three years after the 
complainant knew, or should have known they had reason to complain. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2  and it can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook.
Mrs B first complained about charges on her account in 2007. And BoS sent her a final 
response at that time. Mrs B didnt refer any complaint about the charges that had been 
applied to her account to us until July 2019, which was outside of the six-month time frame 
set out under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. Mrs B has told us 
about her circumstances at the time. But I dont think her circumstances were exceptional 
enough to mean that this part of the rules shouldnt apply. So I dont think we have the power 
to look at the charges Mrs B complained about in 2007.
Mrs B has also complained about the charges applied to her account from 2007 to the 
present. Mrs B had, at least, six years from the date the charges were added in order to 
complain. Mrs B complained in July 2019. So Mrs B complained more than six years after 
any charges from before July 2013 were added to her account.
But DISP 2.8.2R (2)(b) can potentially provide a consumer with longer than six years to 
complain, as long as they complained within three years of when they were aware, or they 
ought reasonably to have been aware, they had cause to. Mrs B would have known if she 
was unhappy with the charges as soon as they were applied, and so our rules say I can only 
consider charges applied to her accounts in the six years before she complained to BoS  so 
in this decision Ill only be looking at the charges applied from July 2013 onwards.
Charges applied after July 2013
BoS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I agree with our adjudicators view that BoS 
acted unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it 
renewed Mrs Bs overdraft in December 2013. By this point, I think it ought to have been 
clear that Mrs B was in no position to sustainably repay what she owed within a reasonable 
period of time. 
I say this because, by this time, Mrs B was hardcore borrowing. In other, words she hadnt 
seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. BoSs own literature 
suggests that overdrafts are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day 
expenditure. I think that Mrs Bs overdraft usage should have prompted BoS to have realised 
that she wasnt using her overdraft as intended and that she might be at risk of financial 
difficulties. So I dont think BoS should have continued offering the overdraft on the same 
terms. As BoS didnt react to Mrs Bs overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the 
same way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
I note what BoS has said about the way Mrs Bs account was managed at that time. BoS has 
specifically commented that Mrs B was receiving adequate income to cover her outgoings, 
and that non-essential spending and payments to a business account held with another bank 
appear to have been the cause of many of the difficulties on the account during that period. I 
can see that there were payments to companies that could be considered non-essential 
showing on Mrs Bs account, and there were large payments to (and from) a business 
account held with a different bank. Ms B has told us that at the time her husband ran a 
business and it was often more convenient for him to deposit money into her account for her 
to transfer to his business account as there wasnt a branch of his bank nearby. And I can 
see that the payments do often follow this pattern of a cash deposit followed by a transfer to 
a business account. 
But I dont think that these payments or the other spending negates the fact that Ms Bs 
account had not seen a credit balance for several months. It was clear that she was using 
her overdraft for all her day to day spending, and not for unforeseen emergencies as an 
overdraft is intended to be used. And I think that should have triggered BoS, when it reviewed her overdraft limit in December 2013, to look a bit deeper into what was happening 
with Mrs Bs account. BoS doesnt appear to have questioned how her account was being 
used at the time, and I think it should have.
Mrs B ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I think that BoS didnt 
treat Mrs B fairly and she lost out because of what BoS did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
 
Fair compensation  what BoS needs to do to put things right for Mrs B  
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Bs complaint for BoS to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the renewal in December 2013 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made BoS should contact Mrs B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Bs credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft in December 2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs B along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then BoS 
should remove any adverse information from Mrs Bs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman