DRN-3554860
The complaint
Mr T complains about how Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton 
Insurance (Swinton) dealt with a claim on his motor insurance.
What happened
Mr T had motor insurance taken out through Swinton, a broker. His car was involved in an 
accident which was not Mr Ts fault. Mr T says the damage to the car was sorted out, but he 
says he also made a personal injury claim on behalf of his wife to Swinton which hasnt been 
dealt with. Mr T says when he contacted Swinton about this he was told to call the 
underwriter of the policy, as it was dealing with this part of the claim. Mr T says when he did 
so, the underwriter knew nothing about any claim and the call handler was rude to him. Mr T 
says he repeatedly sent medical information to Swinton but Swinton says it doesnt have it. 
When Mr T complained about this to Swinton, Swinton said no personal injury claim had 
been made, and no medical evidence received.
Mr T wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He said it was likely that there was some confusion about who Mr T 
spoke to and where the medical information was sent.
Mr T wasnt happy with what the investigator decided, so his complaint has been passed to 
me. Mr T wants financial compensation for his wife.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr T reported the accident to Swintons claims line, managed by Company A. As it was clear 
that Mr T wasnt at fault, the claim was transferred to Company B to arrange the repairs and 
car hire. Swinton says the advantage of this was that the underwriter wasnt then involved in 
the claim and Mr T didnt have to pay the policy excess. 
I can see from the claim notes provided by Swinton that when Mr T called Swinton about the 
claim, he was transferred to Company B. I can also see that he had at one point spoken to 
Company A about a personal injury claim but the call ended before Mr T could be transferred 
to the correct department. 
In its final response letter to Mr Ts complaint, Swinton says it didnt at any point advise him 
to call the underwriter. And there is no mention in the claim notes of this advice having been 
given. Anyway it wouldnt have made sense for Swinton to tell Mr T to call the underwriter, 
as the underwriter wasnt dealing with any aspect of the claim.
In the letter Swinton also said it had no record of having received any medical information 
from Mr T. And there is no mention of any medical information in the claim notes. Swinton 
said even if it had received such information it would probably have been destroyed, as it 
was confidential and Swinton wasnt dealing with a personal injury claim.
In the letter Swinton said it had contacted Company A and Company B to try to find out 
where Mr T sent the medical information. Company A advised Swinton that Mr T told it 
neither he nor his wife had been injured in the accident. Swinton also said that Company A 
said it hadnt received any medical information from Mr T. Company B told Swinton that Mr T 
had asked it about making a personal injury claim for his wife, and Company B advised him 
to contact Company A.
Mr T has provided our investigator with the address he says he sent the medical information 
to. This would appear to be the address of Company B, which would not be the correct place 
to send it.
So on balance I think that Mr T didnt make a valid personal injury claim for his wife. In the 
final response letter, sent about six months after the accident, Swinton advised Mr T to 
contact Company A if he did want to make a personal injury claim, and gave him the number 
to call. I think this was a fair and reasonable response in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint. So I wont be asking Atlanta 
Insurance Intermediaries Limited trading as Swinton Insurance to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman