DRN-3795845
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) wont refund money she 
lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In November 2021, Mrs W was looking for someone to install a log burner. She posted an 
advert on a social media website to find someone who could do the work. She received a 
response from an individual who Ill refer to as D. 
Mrs W says she received responses from other tradespeople, but they couldnt do the work 
until after Christmas. It was important that the log burner be installed before Christmas  
which D said he could do.
Mrs W says that while D didnt come around to their property prior to providing a quote for 
the installation, the price D quoted was in line with other quotes shed received for the same 
work. D told her he was self-employed and didnt operate as a business, and as she only 
had his name, no information came up when she looked him up on Companies House. But 
Mrs W says D had reviews and pictures of his work posted on his social media profile page 
and he provided the name of someone hed previously completed work for as a referee.   
Mrs W says she also searched for D online by his name, but nothing came up. Mrs W says 
D came across as knowledgeable, talking about the building regulations applicable to log 
burners.
D sent Mrs W an invoice asking her to pay a deposit of £748.50, with the remaining balance 
of £1,746.50 payable on completion. D explained that he needed to pay upfront for materials 
to do the job, which was why he required a deposit to be paid. 
On 6 December 2021, Mrs W made the payment of £748.50. Mrs W was asked to make the 
payment to an account name that didnt match Ds name, which she says she queried with 
D. However, D explained that the account was in his partners name as they do the parts 
ordering for him. Satisfied with his answer, Mrs W went ahead with making the payment.
When D didnt turn up as promised to do the work and blocked Mrs W from contacting him, 
she realised shed been the victim of a scam and contacted Nationwide.
Nationwide contacted the beneficiary bank but were unable to recover any funds for Mrs W. 
They considered her request to be refunded but declined to refund her, saying she didnt do 
sufficient checks to make sure D was genuine before making the payment.
Mrs W wasnt happy with Nationwides response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ws complaint but didnt uphold it, as they didnt feel Mrs W 
had done sufficient checks to reasonably believe D was legitimate.
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators opinion saying shed made every reasonable effort 
to check that D was genuine. As she disagreed, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide are a signatory to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that an exception applies. In this case Nationwide say Mrs W made the payment without 
having a reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or 
business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
Having carefully considered everything that Mrs W has told us, Im not satisfied that she had 
a reasonable basis for believing that D was legitimate. I say this because:
Mrs W says D told her he was involved in a family business and did some work on 
the side. However, I cant see that Mrs W asked for any information about the family 
business, which wouldve enabled her to do checks on Ds experience in completing 
this type of work.
Mrs W says she searched for D on Companies House, using only his name as she 
had limited information about him. She also searched for him online but couldnt find 
any information about him. However, if she had searched online using Ds email 
address (which was included on the invoice) she wouldve seen links and images that 
dont relate to a male or have any link to a tradesperson. Also, if D did work for a 
family business as well as doing separate work on the side, I would expect him to 
have some online presence when searching based on his name, address or email 
address. The lack of links or information being returned shouldve concerned Mrs W.
Mrs W contacted the referee provided by D, however its unclear what checks she did 
to ensure the validity of the reference. Also, I can see that Mrs W voiced concerns to 
the referee about making a payment to an account name that didnt match Ds name. 
The referee said theyd had similar concerns and provided the same explanation as 
D, but I cant see that Mrs W did any further checks based on these concerns  or 
that she asked to pay an account held in Ds name.
In one of the messages with D, Mrs W asks if hes HETAS registered. However, she 
didnt ask for any evidence that he was. 
Mrs W also voices concern in one message where she says to D, so how does it 
work. We decide on a stove and you send us written paperwork? Obviously we are a 
bit worried lol.
I also find it concerning that D quoted on work without visiting Mrs Ws home, 
especially as the work was to install a log burner. In this type of situation, where 
connections and fittings would be required, I would think it reasonable to expect the 
tradesperson to visit the location in order to provide an accurate quote.
I think its important to explain, that in reaching my decision about whether Mrs W had a 
reasonable basis for believing D was legitimate, Ive taken into account all of these red flags 
collectively  not on an individual basis. Overall, I think there were enough warning signs 
that Mrs W shouldve done further checks to satisfy herself about Ds legitimacy before 
making the payment.However, the CRM Code also requires Nationwide to take reasonable steps to protect their 
customers from APP scams. And, where they identify a scam risk, they should provide their 
customer with an effective warning.
In this case Im not persuaded that Nationwide shouldve identified that Mrs W was 
potentially at risk of a scam, therefore they werent required to provide an effective warning. I 
say this because the payment wasnt out of character taking into account Mrs Ws previous 
account usage, as well as the size of the payment. While I realise that this represents a 
significant amount of money to Mrs W, a balance has to be struck between Nationwide 
identifying potentially concerning payments, and responding appropriately to any concerns, 
and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. And, in these circumstances, I cant fairly 
say Nationwide shouldve been concerned and intervened.
Id like to reassure Mrs W that its not in dispute that she was the victim of a cruel scam and 
acknowledge the negative impact losing this money has had on her wellbeing. However, 
being the victim of a scam doesnt mean shes automatically entitled to a refund. 
I realise that Mrs W is going to be very disappointed, but for the reasons given above, I cant 
fairly ask Nationwide to refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this case against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman