DRN-2894492
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portafina) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Mr A is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr A.
What happened
Mr A approached Portafina around March 2017 for advice. He has said he recalled seeing 
an advertisement talking about accessing money from a pension. And he was interested in 
exploring this option.
Portafina gathered information about Mr As circumstances and objectives. It carried out an 
assessment of Mr As attitude to risk, which it deemed to be medium / balanced. And it 
arranged a transfer value analysis (TVAS).
At the point Portafina provided its recommendation Mr A was 55 years old. He was married 
and employed. He did not own his home  renting it at a cost of £420 per month. He had 
outstanding unsecured debts totalling approximately £13,300, to which he was making 
payments totalling £496 per month. Mr A also had a single life insurance policy with a sum 
assured of £10,000 for which he paid £7 per month. Portafina noted he was looking to retire 
at age 67.
Mr A had a defined benefit pension from a previous employment. The information used as 
part of the recommendation indicated the pension was projected at age 65 to either; pay a 
full pension of £5,115 per annum with a tax free cash amount of £9,893 being released or a 
reduced initial pension of £3,825 per annum with a tax free cash sum of £25,500 released. 
The pension had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of approximately £76,600.
On 13 February 2018, Portafina advised Mr A to transfer his pension benefits, take a tax free 
cash sum and put the rest into a personal pension and invest the proceeds with 27.94% in 
fixed interest assets, 67.06% in equity funds and 5% in cash. 
The suitability report said Mr A wanted to repay his debt, carry out home improvements and 
go on holiday. It also said Mr A wanted greater flexibility in terms of how his pension could 
be accessed and more choice with regards to death benefits. It said he wanted more control 
over his pension fund and that he was willing to take an investment risk and that he wanted 
to maximise his tax-free cash in comparison to his existing scheme. 
Portafina said the reasons for the recommendation it made were this would allow Mr A to 
access a tax-free sum of £19,153 to repay his unsecured debt, carry out home 
improvements and go on holiday. And Portafina said in its recommendation it thought the 
transfer would deliver greater ongoing benefits than Mr As current pension provided.
I understand when the transfer took place the CETV of Mr As DB pension was actually 
£75,719.47
Mr A complained in 2020 to Portafina about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said that 
he didnt think the advice given was in his best interests. He said the guaranteed nature of 
his existing arrangements werent made clear enough, including that they were linked to 
inflation so would continue to increase. And he didnt think the risks involved were made 
clear enough and didnt think it was likely his new pension would perform well enough to 
provide benefits matching what hed given up  which he felt was downplayed at the time of 
the advice. He said hed had a cautious attitude to risk and had a low capacity for loss and 
felt other options shouldve been explored rather than Portafina recommending a pension 
transfer. And he was unhappy with the level of costs he was now incurring compared to his 
previous arrangement. He was also concerned, due to his new pension having a flexible 
drawdown facility, that he may not have sufficient funds for his retirement.
Portafina didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said transferring had allowed Mr A to release the 
tax-free cash he needed to clear his debts, therefore decreasing his monthly expenditure. 
And it didnt think there were any other viable alternatives that wouldve allowed Mr A to 
achieve this. It also said Mr A had indicated he didnt intend to purchase an annuity and 
would prefer a drawdown facility. Which it felt meant the new pension could match or exceed 
what it considered to be the relevant growth rate that would be required to provide equivalent 
benefits to his previous pension  particularly given Mr As balanced attitude to risk, which it 
still believed to be correct. It noted that there were increased costs but felt these were 
worthwhile as the new pension gave Mr A significantly more flexibility.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and required 
Portafina to pay compensation and pay £200 for the distress caused. She didnt agree that 
Mr A had a balanced attitude to risk  noting he was nearing retirement, had no investment 
experience and that his existing DB pension formed the majority of his retirement provisions 
so he had a low capacity for loss. So, she felt Mr A shouldve been considered as having a 
low appetite for risk. And with that in mind, and given the critical yield required for the new 
pension to match the benefits of the existing scheme, she didnt think the recommendation 
was suitable. She also didnt think recommending that the majority of the new pension be 
invested in equities was appropriate. And she didnt agree that Mr A needed to repay his 
outstanding debt. She noted Mr A had been interested in reducing his debt and had said it 
had been stressful at times for him managing these. But he had maintained all of his 
payments and wasnt in arrears. So, while he mightve been interested in alleviating this, she 
felt if he had been correctly advised that the transfer wasnt in his best interests, hed have 
been willing and able to continue with his arrangements as they were. 
Portafina disagreed. It said it thought Mr A did have a need to repay his debts and, as there 
were no alternatives, the advice was suitable as it had allowed him to do this. It said it had 
completed a detailed review of Mr As attitude to risk and felt it had correctly categorised this 
as balanced. And Portafina said it didnt think the critical yield was as relevant here as the 
lifetime hurdle rate as Mr A had said he didnt intend to purchase an annuity and preferred 
a flexible drawdown facility. And it believed, taking this and Mr As attitude to risk into 
account, this rate was achievable and exceedable  noting previous performance of the 
recommended fund. Portafina also said it thought if it hadnt recommended the transfer, 
even though it still believed this to be suitable, Mr A would still have sought to access his 
pension, potentially on an insistent client basis.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. She still felt Mr A did not have a 
need to release tax free cash and the critical yield, which was important, meant the new 
arrangement was unlikely to provide the same benefits in retirement from what was the 
majority of Mr As provisions. She also didnt agree it was likely Mr A wouldve been an insistent client if the correct advice had been provided.
As Portafina didnt agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portafina should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr As best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests.
Financial viability 
At the time of Portafinas advice, Mr A was 55 years old and employed. Ive not been 
provided anything to suggest he wasnt in good health. Portafinas suitability report noted he 
was intending / expecting to retire at age 67  so approximately 12 years after the advice 
was provided. Mr A did not own his own home and paid rent of £420 per month  which it 
appears wouldve been at least partially an ongoing commitment after retirement. He didnt 
have any other significant savings or investments. He had outstanding unsecured debts of 
approximately £13,300, which he was maintaining payments towards. Mr A had another 
pension through the employer he was working for at the time, but I understand hed only 
been contributing to that scheme for a couple of years. So, his DB pension appeared to 
represent the majority of his retirement provision and appears to have been his most 
valuable asset  as it would provide a guaranteed income at retirement with increases, along 
with a spouses pension.
Portafina says it completed a risk assessment and classed Mr A as having a medium / 
balanced attitude to risk. It has provided extracts from the risk assessment it completed to 
show this. And they do show, according to how Portafina classified attitude to risk, that 
Mr As scores fell into that category.
Mr A disputes this and says he had a low attitude to risk.
I note that the questions in Portafinas assessment about experience of investments records 
that Mr A has none and would be likely to rely on an adviser beyond the basic fundamentals 
of investment. And because of this the risk assessment recorded Mr A as potentially 
inexperienced. And there are notes suggesting that because of this the recommended 
strategy might need to be reduced  with notes added indicating a moderately cautious 
attitude should be considered. But this seems to have been ignored by Portafina when 
providing advice.
Im also conscious that several of the questions where Mr A has been recorded as scoring 
higher in terms of an attitude to risk say things like I want to aim for a higher return and I would like to aim for a better return. I think anybody would be interested in aiming for a 
better return. But unless sufficient context was provided, given Mr A, according to the risk 
assessment, was potentially inexperienced, Im not sure agreeing to these statements is 
enough on its own to say that this reflected his actual attitude to risk. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr A had any investment experience prior to receiving this 
advice. So, I think he was inexperienced. He was aged 55, so towards the end of his working 
life - approximately 12 years from his apparent intended retirement date. So, he had a 
limited investment horizon to expose his fund to risk and limited capacity to increase any 
other retirement provisions. And again, his DB pension was his main retirement asset. It also 
appears he wouldve had ongoing committed outgoings beyond retirement  specifically rent. 
So, he wouldve had need for a set level of income to meet those ongoing requirements. And 
based on all of this I think he had a low capacity for loss.
Taking all of this into account, I dont agree that Mr A shouldve been recorded as having a 
medium / balanced attitude to risk. This isnt supported by his circumstances and as Ive 
explained, Portafinas own risk assessment suggested a revision to moderately cautious 
would be appropriate. And I think Mr A wouldve had a low / cautious attitude to risk at the 
time of the advice.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how Portafina could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst Portafina weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a 
useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable 
for a typical investor.
According to the TVAS Portafina arranged prior to giving advice, the critical yield required to 
match Mr As benefits at age 65 (although it says Mr A had indicated a wish to retire at age 
67, the TVAS seems to have been completed based on the default retirement age in his 
existing scheme) was 11.9% if he took a full pension and 10.4% if he took TFC and a 
reduced pension. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.7% per year for 9 years to retirement (again using age 65 as the TVAS did). For 
further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
In Portafinas summary of advice it talked about the average annual return on the investment 
it was recommending being 7.89% for the past ten years and 10.49% for the previous five 
years. But, despite the prominence it gave to these figures, as it in fact noted in its advice 
summary, past performance is no guarantee for future performance. And so, I consider the 
discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in 
the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr As 
attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Mr A giving up 
the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same 
level of benefits outside the scheme. And regardless of whether Mr A was considered to 
have a balanced attitude, as Portafina says, or a cautious one, as I believe wouldve been 
appropriate, given the lowest critical yield was 10.4%, I think Mr A was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement.Portafina says it relied on a hurdle rate of 4.5%, as Mr A did not intend to take an annuity. 
So, it doesnt consider the critical yield to be relevant. But Im not satisfied that using the 
hurdle rate was appropriate when it is used to determine the growth required to match the 
starting pension of the DB scheme, without increases and without a spouses pension being 
included. Mr As existing pension provided a 45.65% spouses pension and it escalated in 
retirement. So, the hurdle rate doesnt replicate the benefits Mr A was giving up, which was 
what the regulator wanted businesses to do when comparing schemes. I am therefore 
satisfied that it is appropriate to use the critical yield to measure the value of the benefits 
being given up and not the hurdle rate.
So, based on the financial viability of the proposition alone a transfer out of the DB scheme 
wasnt in Mr As best interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when 
giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is 
suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
Portafina has said that Mr A did not want to retire early but wanted to repay outstanding 
debts, so needed the flexibility offered by the scheme he transferred to. It has also said he 
was interested in going on holiday and carrying out some home improvements.
Mr A has confirmed that he contacted Portafina as he was interested in accessing tax free 
cash. He has said that he wanted to clear his outstanding debt, in particular the personal 
loan that had an outstanding balance of approximately £11,000 to which he was paying £386 
per month. He has said he wasnt in arrears or being pursued for the outstanding debt by 
debt collectors. But he was finding it a struggle at times and had concerns about the debts 
he had. 
Im satisfied then that Mr A was interested in clearing debt and this was the motivation for 
contacting Portafina. I dont think though that the other things that couldve been achieved by 
releasing some funds  a holiday and some home improvements  were significant 
motivating factors. Rather they were just potential added benefits.
While Mr A was interested in and may have wanted to look at clearing his existing debt, like 
our Investigator, Im not sure he needed to do so. Mr A was employed and, from the 
information Ive seen, had a regular and stable income. He has said he wasnt in arrears 
and, although it caused him worry, he was able to get by and meet his outstanding 
commitments. 
Portafina has said that the payments Mr A was making towards his outstanding debt took up 
a large part of his income and meant he had little disposable income left each month. It has 
also said that, according to its file, he had only been paying the loan for a matter of months 
and had several years left to run, so this was a long time to just get by. And by transferring 
and releasing funds this improved Mr As finances and gave him additional disposable 
income prior to his retirement. 
I think, given the choice, most people when asked would prefer to be debt free and have 
more disposable income, as having outstanding debts can be worrying  as was the case for 
Mr A here. But again, from the information provided I understand Mr A was meeting his 
commitments. And I think it is important to remember that the primary function of Mr As 
pension was to provide him the income he needed after he retired, which in this case 
wouldve likely included the need to meet at least some ongoing rent / housing costs. And 
again, the DB pension accounted for the majority of Mr As retirement provisions.
Im also not sure that a transfer was the only available option, as Portafina has suggested. Mr A was 55 at the time of the advice. It appears from the information provided that he 
couldve taken early retirement benefits from his DB scheme at the time of the advice which 
wouldve released enough tax-free cash to clear his outstanding commitments. I dont think 
this is what Mr A wouldve done because this wouldve meant drawing a reduced pension 
immediately, which wouldve been subject to income tax. And this wouldve meant when he 
did retire the pension he received wouldve continued to be at a lower level than he couldve 
achieved by keeping his pension invested in the DB scheme until he did retire. But this 
option doesnt appear to have been even considered or discussed.
There was also the option of referring Mr A to seek free debt advice from relevant 
organisations and charities. This couldve helped him come to a mutually agreeable 
arrangement with his creditors that wouldve alleviated some of his concerns and not 
impacted his retirement income.
Portafina noted that Mr A apparently said he did not want to take any alternative borrowing  
consolidating his debts potentially into a lower monthly repayment. And this was because he 
did not want to pay ongoing interest. But while this might not have been what he wanted, I 
think discussing this further and comparing the benefits with the significant risks to his 
retirement fund that the transfer created, couldve been in his best interests.
Taking all of this into account, I understand that on contacting Portafina Mr A mayve said 
that he wanted to look at releasing tax free cash. But I dont think Mr A required flexibility in 
retirement. This is because based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think he had a genuine 
need to access his tax free cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age, as he 
couldve continued to maintain his commitments at their contractual level, and leave his 
funds invested until a later date. And I also cant see evidence that Mr A had a strong need 
for variable income throughout their retirement, as the guaranteed and escalating income 
from his DB scheme wouldve ensured that he could continue to meet the costs that 
wouldve continued  relating to housing. So, Im satisfied the DB scheme couldve met 
Mr As needs and I dont think transferring to a personal pension was in his best interests.
Death benefits
Portafina said in its suitability report that Mr A was interested in greater flexibility with regard 
to the death benefits the policy provided. But I think this objective mayve been overstated. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely a potentially attractive feature to Mr A. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important the priority here was to advise Mr A about what 
was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. And I dont think Portafina explored to what extent Mr A was prepared to accept a 
lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr A 
was married so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful to 
his spouse if Mr A predeceased her. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. 
And, if Mr A genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Portafina 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. It noted that Mr A had an existing life insurance 
policy with a sum assured of £10,000 for which he was paying £7 per month. If he didnt feel 
this was sufficient, it couldve explored amending this cover, and the sum assured. But I 
cant see that this was discussed. Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr A. 
Control 
I think Mr As desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr A was not an 
experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be able 
to manage his pension funds on his own  indeed Portafinas own assessment identified him 
as an inexperienced investor who would likely need to rely on advice beyond the basic 
fundamentals of his pension. So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr A  it 
was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
Suitability of investments
Portafina recommended that Mr A invest his pension 27.94% in fixed interest assets, 67.06% 
in equity funds and 5% in cash. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a 
transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr A, it follows that I dont need to consider 
the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr A should have been 
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable 
advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr A. But 
Portafina wasnt there to just transact what Mr A might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr A needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr A was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr A was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Portafina has said that the transfer allowed Mr A to 
repay his outstanding debts. But for the reasons Ive already explained, while Mr A mayve 
been interested and even keen to do this, I dont think he had a genuine need to do so nor 
do I think this was in his best interests. So, I dont think Mr A shouldve been advised to 
transfer out of the scheme just to repay debts that were affordable, and the potential for 
higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Portafina shouldve advised Mr A to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr A would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Portafina's advice. Portafina has suggested it thinks he likely wouldve done. And Ive 
considered this carefully. But Im not persuaded that Mr A wouldve insisted on transferring 
out of the DB scheme, against Portafinas advice. I say this because Mr A was an 
inexperienced investor with, in my view, a low attitude to risk and this pension accounted for 
the majority of his retirement provision. So, if Portafina had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I 
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr As concerns about his outstanding debts were so great that he 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he 
had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests  particularly as he 
was meeting his commitments and there were other alternatives available to him, that whilst 
maybe not his first choice, couldve been better suited to his needs. And if Portafina had explained that Mr A could potentially take action to alleviate his debt concerns without risking 
his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr A 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Portafina should compensate Mr A for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that Portafina also pay Mr A £200 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. Mr A has mentioned feeling alarmed on realising that his pension 
provisions through the recommended personal pension were going to be less than he was 
previously entitled to and realising he had been given unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that 
this was distressing and concerning. And this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable 
advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the Portafina to put Mr A, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portafina must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr A has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr As contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr As SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr A within 90 days of the date Portafina receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portafina to pay Mr A.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition to the compensation amount calculated as above, Portafina should also pay Mr A 
£200 for the distress caused by its actions.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
Portafina pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portafina to pay Mr A 
the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portafina to pay Mr A any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portafina 
to pay Mr A any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portafina pays Mr A the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr A.
If Mr A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portafina.
My recommendation would not be binding if Mr A does not accept it. Further, its unlikely that 
Mr A can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman