DRN-3159941
The complaint
Miss B has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted unfairly by 
increasing the overdraft costs without giving enough time to get out of debt.  
What happened
 Miss B complained to NatWest that its increase in overdraft charges are impossible to pay. 
As a gesture of goodwill NatWest agreed to refund £300 in interest and charges and 
provided information on how she could apply for an interest free buffer.  Miss B was dis-
satisfied with this and referred her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at this 
complaint and thought that NatWest should have stopped charging overdraft fees from May 
2015 as Miss B hadnt seen a credit balance over a long period of time. 
As a gesture of goodwill NatWest made an offer to clear Miss Bs overdraft balance and 
once this is done remove the overdraft facility. Miss B didnt want to accept this offer as she 
thinks the fees charged over the years when in financial difficulty were unacceptable and 
doesnt think the offer is fair and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having carefully considered everything, I think that what NatWest has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Ive seen that Miss B has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of 
the charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying 
that I havent considered whether the various amounts NatWest charged over the years 
were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service 
provided. Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it 
isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at NatWests various charging structures or processes per 
se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss B if it applied any interest, fees 
and charges to Miss Bs account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Miss B was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Miss B fairly 
and reasonably. I can see from Miss Bs statements that Miss B hadnt maintained a credit 
balance for an extended period of time. But while this might well be a sign of financial 
difficulty, this isnt in itself a forgone conclusion of it. And I can also see that the account 
wasnt Miss Bs main account  indeed the only transactions on the statements appear to be 
credits from Miss B, monthly overdraft charges and digital banking payments debiting the 
account.
So without a full review of the statements of Miss Bs other accounts I cant say whether she 
was suffering from financial difficulties. But I dont think this matters, because NatWest has 
already agreed to give her what she has effectively asked for  to get out of debt. NatWest 
has agreed to settle the outstanding balance of her overdraft and remove the overdraft 
facility.
Bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that what NatWest has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Miss B is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss B to decide whether she 
wishes to accept NatWests offer.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Miss B is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman