DRN:DRN-1000275
the complaint
Mr and Ms P are unhappy their car insurance policy with Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV) was cancelled mid-term. 
what happened
Ms P took out a car insurance policy with LV in November 2017 with Mr P as a named 
driver.  They chose to pay for the policy on a monthly basis, rather than all in one go, and set 
up a direct debit instruction to make the payment.  But LV says only one payment went 
through successfully by direct debit.  On other occasions Mr and Ms P made payments by 
debit card or bank transfer on an ad hoc basis, often some time after the payment was due.
LV says Ms P called on 22 June 2018 to make the payment that had been due, but 
was missed, in May.  They say she was told the June payment was due a couple of days 
late and she said she'd call to make this payment on 25 June, but that didn't happen.  So LV 
says a text and email were sent to Ms P on 26 June explaining the policy would be cancelled 
in 7 days if the missed payment wasn't made.  The payment didn't arrive by the date given, 
so LV cancelled the policy on 3 July and notified Ms P.
Mr and Ms P say they didn't receive any warnings or notifications about the policy being 
cancelled.  And, in early September 2018, the police pulled Mr P over because he was 
driving without insurance.  He was given the option of paying a £300 fine and taking 6 
penalty points. or taking the matter to court.  Mr P says he chose the latter and this 
has severely affected his work and home life, not least because he's had to pay for a 
solicitor in relation to the court proceedings.  He says LV should've issued him with an 
indemnity letter which would have ended the police matter.
When LV refused to issue an indemnity, Mr and Ms P asked us to look into their complaint.  
But our investigator didn't think LV had done anything wrong.  Mr and Ms P disagreed, so 
the complaint has come to me.
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I can't fairly uphold this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
The letter Ms P was sent when the policy started enclosed details of her monthly payment 
plan.  And the policy terms and conditions explained she must ensure her premiums were 
kept up to date and, if they weren't, the policy would be cancelled after giving 7 days notice if 
the outstanding payments weren't received.
With this in mind, there seems no dispute that the premium due in May was paid late.  Or 
that Ms P was told when she called to pay the May premium that another payment  for 
June's premium  was due just two days later and she'd need to make that payment 
manually again because there wasn't enough time to reset her direct debit instruction.  There 
also seems no dispute that the June payment wasn't received.  It's not clear to me why Ms P didn't make that payment particularly as she appears to have said, during the call, that she 
would call back to make it on 25 June 2018.
Given the information provided when the policy was taken out and during that phone call in 
June, I think Mr and Ms P should've been aware that payments were due and needed to be 
made each and every month.
I'm also satisfied, despite what Mr and Ms P say, that it's more likely than not LV did get in 
touch to tell them the June payment had been missed and warned them the policy would be 
cancelled in 7 days if it's wasn't paid.  In my experience, this is what usually happens when 
premiums are missed.  And LV's records indicate the notification was sent and they hold the 
correct email and postal addresses for Ms P, as shown in the policy documents. 
I appreciate it must've been distressing for Mr P to have been pulled over by the police and I 
can see the events that flowed from there will have an impact on his work and home-life.  
But I don't think it was wrong of LV to cancel the policy and it seems more likely than not that 
it sent appropriate notifications to Ms P about this.  It also appears that LV promptly returned 
the premiums Mr and Mrs P sent after policy was cancelled.  So I can't fairy tell LV to 
reinstate the policy,  give Mr P the indemnity he has requested or pay him any 
compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman