DRN-3361233
The complaint
Mrs U is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited declined her application 
for finance.
What happened
In November 2021 Mrs U ordered a new car and applied for finance with VWFS. The 
application was declined.
Mrs U was unhappy about this and complained to VWFS. In response, it said that her 
application didnt meet its acceptance requirements. VWFS said that on checking with its 
underwriting team and reviewing Mrs Us concerns, there was a discrepancy with a member 
of her household who had previously been declined for finance.
Mrs U wasnt happy with the response and brought her complaint to this service. She says 
she isnt fronting for anyone and would like VWFS to offer her finance.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said it was VWFSs decision who it lent to 
and said it had complied with the relevant guidelines by providing Mrs U with the reason it 
had declined her application.
Mrs U didnt agree. She said she felt she was being treated unfairly because of other people 
in her household. She said she had an immaculate credit report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs U feels very strongly that she hasnt been treated fairly by VWFs. 
However, having reviewed the complaint, I agree with the investigator that VWFS hasnt 
done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
In deciding whether to extend credit, a lender must undertake reasonable and proportionate 
checks.
VWFS has said that when it requested checks, the underwriting team advised that there may 
be a suspicion of fronting. VWFS says it discussed this further with the underwriting team 
and was advised that the electoral role indicated that a member of Mrs Us household had 
previously been declined for finance. VWFS said that based on the outcome of the checks, it 
decided to decline the application.
The Standards of Lending Practice say that a customer must be given the primary reasons 
for why their application was declined. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that VWFS has 
made the reasons it declined the application clear to Mrs U.
I appreciate that Mrs U feels that she should have been given the opportunity to challenge 
the lending decision. However, this service isnt able to tell lenders what factors to take into 
account in reaching a decision. Nor is this service able to tell a lender to accept an 
application. A lender has complete authority to set its own process and make its own lending 
decisions. So, Im unable to require VWFS to change its decision.
Takin g everything into account, Im unable to say that VWFS has done anything wrong. Im 
satisfied that VWFS has followed its lending process and has provided the reason for 
reclining the application in line with the relevant guidelines.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman