DRN-2299667
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Creative Finance Corp Ltd trading as Motorkitty (Creative) lent to her 
in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mrs S was given one loan by Creative. She borrowed £1,000 in December 2018 and agreed 
to repay the loan in 36 monthly instalments. The loan was secured against Mrs Ss vehicle. 
Mrs S has found it difficult to repay the loan and her vehicle has now been repossessed. 
I understand that it has been passed to an auction house to be sold.
Mrs Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think the checks 
Creative had done before agreeing the loan had been sufficient. And she thought that better 
checks would have led to Mrs Ss loan application being declined. So she didnt think 
Creative should have agreed to lend to Mrs S and asked the lender to pay Mrs S some 
compensation.
Creative didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mrs S accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Creative gave this loan to Mrs S required it to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Creative had to think about whether repaying 
the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs S. In 
practice this meant that Creative had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause 
Mrs S undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Creative to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mrs S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Creative did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Mrs S.
Creative gathered some information from Mrs S before it agreed the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal expenditure. And  Mrs S was asked to provide some 
bank statements so Creative could check the information shed provided.
Mrs S was entering into a significant commitment with Creative. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of three years. So I would expect that Creative would want 
to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mrs Ss financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. Although Creative did look at some of Mrs Ss 
bank statements I dont think that the checks it did were enough. I think it needed to ensure 
that the information Mrs S had provided allowed a full review of her true financial 
circumstances. The bank statements she provided appear to have only covered a limited 
number of the transactions going through her account at that time and seem to have been 
only intended to show her monthly salary being received.
But although I dont think the checks Creative did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, 
that in itself doesnt mean that Mrs Ss complaint should succeed. Id also need to be 
persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown Creative that 
Mrs S couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. So Ive looked at full copies of Mrs Ss 
bank statements, and what shes told us about her financial situation, to see what better 
checks would have shown Creative.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that 
Creative should have carried out. I do think Creative needed evidence to give a full picture of 
what was happening with Mrs Ss finances. And looking at a full set of her bank statements 
is one way of achieving that although there are of course many other ways that level of detail 
could be established. But I think that by looking at Mrs Ss bank statements I can get a good 
idea of what better checks might have shown.
Mrs Ss bank statements show that she wasnt managing her money particularly well. She 
was borrowing from a number of other lenders. And she was using that money to support 
what appears to be a large amount of online gambling expenditure. In the month before the 
loan her gambling expenditure exceeded more than half of her normal income. 
I dont think it would be reasonable for a responsible lender to think that a consumer 
evidencing this sort of spending pattern would be likely to be able to afford to repay any 
borrowing in a sustainable manner. I think that spending pattern would have been identified if Creative had done what I consider to be proportionate checks. So I dont think this loan 
should have been agreed, and Creative needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I dont think that Creative should have agreed to lend to Mrs S in December 2018. As I said 
earlier, the loan was secured against Mrs Ss vehicle, and that car has now been 
repossessed. I dont know whether or not the auction house has yet completed the sale of 
the vehicle so below I will provide redress directions for either scenario.
If the vehicle sale has not yet been completed 
To put things right Creative should;
Add up the total amount Mrs S has repaid on this loan, and deduct that sum from the 
capital amount of £1,000 that she borrowed.
oIf this results in Mrs S having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement) .
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Creative should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs S.
Return the car to Mrs S and cancel the bill of sale, returning the V5 document.
Refund any repossession fees and storage fees Mrs S has paid with simple interest at 
8% per year. Or remove any unpaid repossession/storage fees from the outstanding 
balance if any.
Arrange for Mrs Ss possessions that were in the car when it was repossessed to be 
returned to her home address immediately.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ss credit file regarding the loan.
  HM Revenue & Customs requires Creative to take off tax from this interest. Creative must 
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the vehicle sale has now been completed 
To put things right Creative should;
Establish the true market value of the car using an industry standard guide. I would 
generally expect this value to be higher than the sale price achieved at the auction.
Add the total amount Mrs S has repaid on the loan to the market value of the car, and 
deduct the total from the capital amount that she borrowed.
oIf this results in Mrs S having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement) .
oIf any capital balance remains outstanding, then Creative should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mrs S.
Refund any associated fees paid by Mrs S (e.g. repossession fee, storage fee, auction 
fee, etc.) with simple interest at 8% per year. Or remove any unpaid fees from the 
outstanding balance if appropriate.
Arrange for Mrs Ss possessions that were in the car when it was repossessed to be 
returned to her home address immediately.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mrs Ss credit file regarding the loan. HM Revenue & Customs requires Creative to take off tax from this interest. Creative must 
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and direct Creative Finance Corp Ltd to 
put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman