DRN-3029217
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. The policy was increased alongside further advances in 1998 and again in 1999. 
Mr and Mrs D says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them the PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
The initial sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide 
much information about how the policy was sold in 1996 or amended in 1998. But Lloyds 
has been able to provide a copy of Mr and Mrs Ds separate application to amend the 
policy in 1999. Over the years, weve seen a number of Lloyds cases and using what I 
know generally of Lloyds sales practices, I think its more likely than not Mr and Mrs D 
would have completed a similar form when they initially took out the PPI and again when 
they amended it in 1998. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of each sale, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them when it was 
sold or amended. For example, Mr and Mrs D were eligible for the cover and although 
they had existing means they still seem to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Ds employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. And although Mr D says he had a medical condition 
some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for Lloyds to have 
recommended it. I say this because Mr D says he didnt miss any time off of work for the 
condition and he hasnt said that it ever reoccurred. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs D as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs D would have declined the cover had Lloyds done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs D would have still taken out PPI and increased it in line 
with their additional borrowing. I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult 
time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think the policy was sufficiently close to 
what its likely they thought they were getting. And in those circumstances, I think that they 
would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ds representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ds individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ds particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Lloyds doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman