DRN-2120398
The complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt question a cheque she wrote in July 2017. She
says they should have done and this would have prevented her losing £20,000.
What happened
On 17 July 2017, Ms M wrote a cheque for £20,000 from her account with Lloyds. This was
for an investment. Since Ms M wrote the cheque, the firm she made the cheque payable to
has gone into administration. And Ms M has lost her £20,000. After this happened, Ms M
discovered theyd been in administration before while trading under a different name. So
Ms M feels that Lloyds should have carried out further due diligence checks before allowing
the cheque to be paid.
Ms M complained to Lloyds who thought theyd acted correctly. While sympathetic to Ms Ms
circumstances, theyd no reason to stop the cheque. And it isnt part of the service they
provide to their customers to carry out checks on a third party.
Ms M brought her complaint to our service and it was considered by an investigator. He
thought that Lloyds had acted correctly so he didnt ask them to do anything. Ms M wasnt
happy with this outcome and said the following:
The investigator focused on her age rather than the fact the investment firm had 
previously gone into liquidation.
She hadnt written a cheque for this amount before so Lloyds should have queried 
this.
The case came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 20 August 2020. 
And in it I said:
The terms and conditions of Ms Ms account with Lloyds say that when she gives an
instruction to pay via cheque, theyll verify her signature against the one held on file. Lloyds
havent confirmed if they did this here. But theres no dispute that Ms M wrote the cheque.
Ms M has told us that the proceeds of the cheque were to be used to purchase some Mini-
Bonds. She purchased these directly from the firm which is now in administration, and not
through an Independent Financial Adviser. Ms M believes that Lloyds were aware the firm
had been in administration before. But she hasnt provided any evidence of this. And I
havent seen any evidence to suggest they were.
Id only expect Lloyds not to carry out a payment instruction if they had concerns it wasnt
authorised by their customer, if they thought their customer might be at risk of being
scammed or was at risk of financial harm. But that isnt the case here. If Lloyds did have any
concerns the cheque wasnt authorised, Id only expect them to verify this direct with their
customer. Im not persuaded its reasonable to expect Lloyds to carry out any checks on a
firm that their customer writes out a cheque to. This includes finding out if theyd been in
administration before.
Ms M has said that due to the amount of the cheque, Lloyds should have queried this with
her. This is because she hadnt written a cheque for this amount before. I do see what Ms M
is saying here. And it could be said that Lloyds should have contacted her to verify this
cheque. But I would only have expected Lloyds to have asked Ms M if shed written the
cheque or not, and if she was happy for it to be paid. And given that Ms M didnt have any
concerns about this firm when she wrote the cheque, its most likely she would have said
yes.
I would expect Lloyds to ensure that Ms M wasnt at risk of any financial harm. This would
include warning her about scams and how she could protect herself from potential scams.
But Im not persuaded that was needed here. This is because, at the time, there was nothing
to suggest Ms M wasnt dealing with a genuine business. And I dont think it would have
been evident at the time that the firm would enter administration.
I dont think that even if she was warned about potential investment scams Ms M would have
done anything different. And I dont believe that a general warning about investment scams
would have led her to discovering anything that would have dissuaded her from making the
payment. While Lloyds can stop a cheque if they feel its not in their customers interests for
it to be paid, there wasnt a reason for them to do so here.
Im only making a finding on Lloyds actions. Im not persuaded its fair and reasonable to
hold Lloyds responsible for Ms Ms loss. But this isnt to say that Ms doesnt have a claim
against the firm she sent the cheque to. She would need to pursue that separately.
I understand why Ms M is upset about the money shes lost. Its very unfortunate and she
has my sympathy, but I dont think its reasonable to hold that Lloyds responsible for her
losses or ask them to reimburse her.
Lloyds didnt respond to my provisional decision. Ms M has said:
The investment firm had been in administration before and that Lloyds were aware of 
this.
The investment firm said that Ms M would be covered by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if they became insolvent, but this was a lie.
It amounts to fraud by Lloyds for not protecting her.
A fraud reporting service and a barrister have advised her that Lloyds are responsible 
for the funds shes lost.
Ms M also provided a letter from the investment firm which explained the different types of 
investments they offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has said from the very beginning of her complaint that she feels that Lloyds were 
aware the investment firm had been insolvent before. But the information shes provided 
doesnt persuade me that this is the case.
The letter from the investment firm provides information about the different types of 
investments they offer. It also says that an application form has been provided for Ms M to 
return along with her identification. And the letter doesnt refer to the FSCS.
Ive looked at the evidence Ms M has provided which she says shows the investment firm 
had been in administration before. This shows me this firm were first registered on 12 July 2016 and then entered administration on 27 April 2020. This doesnt show me theyd been in 
administration before 12 July 2016. 
Even if there was evidence which suggests that the investment firm had been in 
administration before, I dont think its reasonable to say Lloyds should have been aware of 
this. I wouldnt expect them to search for information about a company their customers write 
out a cheque to. I know how strongly Ms M feels about this. But I wouldnt have expected 
Lloyds to have done anything different here. 
Ms M has said that when discussing her complaint with a barrister, they said the details of 
the previous liquidation are available online. And that Lloyds could have seen this before 
paying the cheque. And when discussing her complaint with a fraud reporting service, they 
said that Lloyds should have spoken to the investment firm direct.
But despite what Ms M has said she was told, I wouldnt expect Lloyds to have spoken to the 
investment firm, or to carry out any searches before paying the cheque. And Ms M hasnt 
provided any evidence that suggests Lloyds were aware that the investment firm had been in 
administration before. As Ive explained in my provisional decision, had Lloyds contacted Ms 
M to confirm she wanted the cheque paid, Im satisfied that she would have said that she 
did.
Ive considered what Ms M has said. But Im not persuaded to change my decision. That is 
there was no reason for Lloyds not to pay the cheque.
If she hasnt already done so, Ms M should approach the FSCS to see if they can help her 
recover her money.
My final decision
So for the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Ms Ms complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman