DRN-2581807
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax breached his account 
confidentiality.
What happened
Mr W says he used online banking to access his Halifax account and could see his accounts 
had been linked with a third-party account. He says if he could see this other persons 
account then it likely his accounts could be viewed by this same person. Mr W says he made 
about 40 calls to Halifax to get matters sorted out and was unable to access his online 
account for about a week. He would like further compensation for what took place and for 
Halifax to confirm that the other person didnt have access to his personal information.
Halifax accepts it made a mistake and says it incorrectly merged Mr Ws account. It says as 
a result of doing this it deactivated the third persons account and so that person couldnt 
have accessed Mr Ws account or seen his account details. Halifax has apologised for what 
took place and paid £300 compensation.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Halifax had dealt fairly with it. 
The investigator thought the compensation was appropriate and that there wasnt any 
evidence the third party had accessed Mr Ws account or could view it.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says he would like a screenshot of the third partys 
account to confirm that person couldnt access his account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Halifax has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision and how strongly he feels 
about what took place.
There is no question here that Halifax made a mistake that meant Mr W could view another 
persons account information. I have no doubt Mr W would have been concerned about the 
integrity of his account in those circumstances, and if this other person could access his 
account or view its details. I also accept that Mr W spent time in telling Halifax what had 
taken place and that he was caused further inconvenience by not being able to access 
online banking for about a week.
But Im satisfied that Halifax has fairly apologised for what took place and I think has 
provided a fairly detailed explanation to Mr W about what took place and why. I make clear 
to Mr W that its not our role to punish a business for a possible breach of the rules about 
personal data. Im also satisfied that Halifax has paid what I think is a fair and reasonable 
amount of £300 compensation and I think that payment takes account of the fact that Mr W 
didnt suffer any financial loss as a result of what took place.
I appreciate Mr W would like a screenshot of the other persons account. But I cant fairly 
order Halifax to provide that as I think it would be unable to do so and would have to breach 
data protection rules to do so. Im satisfied that Halifax has fairly explained that it deactivated 
the other persons account and so Mr Ws account couldnt be viewed.
Overall, I accept Halifax made a mistake, but Im satisfied its acted fairly by explaining what 
took place, apologising and paying appropriate compensation. I dont think there is any 
evidence Mr Ws account was accessed without his knowledge and so I cant fairly order 
Halifax to do anything further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman