DRN-3809672
The complaint
Mrs Y is unhappy with the way esure Insurance Limited (esure) handled a claim on her 
motor insurance policy. 
Mrs Ys husband represented her during the claim, but for ease of reading Ill refer to Mrs Y 
throughout.
What happened
In February 2022, Mrs Y made a claim on her motor insurance policy as her car was 
unfortunately broken into and had parts removed.
After accepting the claim, esure declared the car a total loss on the grounds that it was 
uneconomical to repair and asked one of their engineers to calculate its market value. Due 
to the age of the car, only one motor trade guide provided a value. So, the engineer relied on 
this guide and said £1,561 represented a fair amount for the car.
On 11 March 2022, esures engineer sent Mrs Y an email explaining the above, and that he 
intended on sending her a settlement cheque which she could accept as an interim payment 
pending any further discussions. The email also explained that she would need to contact 
the DVLA to let them know she was no longer the registered keeper of the car. On the same 
day, the engineer called Mrs Y and left her a voice message asking her to return his call. On            
21 March 2022, the engineer left a further message on Mrs Ys phone. However, as no 
contact was received, he then arranged for the car to be sold for its salvage value.
On 4 April 2022, Mrs Y called esures engineer and said she was unhappy her car had been 
sold without her consent. She had only just read the email that was sent to her in March, and 
she didnt understand why no attempts had been made to call her. In response, the engineer 
shared the details of the valuation, the dates of his unsuccessful call attempts and explained 
that esure followed standard procedure by selling the car for its salvage value. He also 
agreed to register a complaint. Mrs Y didnt accept esures final response and said the claim 
had been handled unfairly. 
An investigator at this service then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said 
esure had acted reasonably by relying on a motor trade guide to reach a fair market value 
and they were entitled to sell the cars salvage.
Mrs Y then requested an ombudsmans decision. She disagreed that £1,561 was a fair value 
for her car and said esure should have done more to contact her. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Market value is defined in the policy terms as follows:
market value  The market value is the amount you could reasonably have expected 
to sell your car for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our 
assessment of the value is based on cars of the same make and model and of a 
similar age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based 
on research from motor trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may 
not be the price you paid when you purchased the car.
Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. However, like most insurers our 
service often finds the motor trade guides persuasive. This is because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and they show likely selling prices at the month of loss. The 
guides also allow for the specifications of most cars to be taking into consideration including 
any extras. This is particularly helpful, as factors such as the age and mileage of a car can 
have a big impact on its value. If a guide doesnt have enough data to reach a fair value, 
they wont provide one.
We usually expect an insurer to rely on a few motor trade guides to help them reach a fair 
valuation. However, sometimes this isnt possible as the guides cant always provide a value.  
I dont find it surprising that only one of the motor trade guides suggested a value here as 
Mrs Ys car was over twenty years old. However, Ive checked the valuation that was 
received, and Im satisfied it was based on the correct date of loss and specification for    
Mrs Ys car. So, I think esure acted reasonably by relying on it.
Mrs Y has provided three adverts to support her belief the valuation should be increased. 
However, this is a small sample, and as mentioned above, we generally find the motor trade 
guides to be persuasive and reliable. Im also mindful that asking prices in adverts usually 
allow room for negotiation. So, while I appreciate Mrs Y feels strongly that esure havent 
offered her a fair market value for her car I disagree.
Mrs Y has confirmed receipt of esures total loss email, and its unfortunate she didnt read it 
until after her car was sold. This isnt something I can reasonably hold esure responsible for, 
as they were only required to send the email to the correct address and theres no dispute 
this happened here. Im also satisfied that having read the contact notes, esures engineer 
attempted to contact Mrs Y by telephone twice before they arranged for her car to be sold.
Mrs Y has said she isnt in the habit of accepting unexpected calls or checking her junk email 
folder. I do empathise with her position, but Im not satisfied this means esure didnt do 
enough to try and contact her. Mrs Y also feels strongly that esure should have gained her 
consent before they arranged the sale of her car. However, as the policy terms say: if we 
settle your claim as a total loss, the car will become our property I dont agree. 
Overall, I think esure communication attempts were reasonable and as they received no 
response from Mrs Y, they had no reason to think she was unhappy with the settlement 
amount or that she was interested in purchasing the cars salvage. So, I wouldnt have 
expected them to have delayed the sale of the car due to Mrs Ys lack of response.
Lastly, Mrs Y has said shes been deprived of a car since the incident happened. However, 
as esure informed her she could accept their settlement offer as an interim payment, Id 
reasonably have expected her to have mitigated her loss by doing so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman