DRN-3454840
The complaint
Miss C complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
irresponsibly gave her an unaffordable loan.
What happened
This complaint is about a loan MoneyBoat provided to Miss C as follows:
Date 
TakenLoan 
statusInstalments Amount Monthly 
Repayment
1/9/2020 Paid 6 £1,500 £460.90
Miss C had taken out two earlier loans in February and July 2020 and repaid both of these 
before borrowing this loan  she has no complaint about those loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt think it was fair for MoneyBoat to have provided this loan to Miss C. In 
summary, he thought that the repayments for this loan represented a significant proportion of 
Miss Cs income. And this meant that there was a significant risk that Miss C wouldnt have 
been able to make the repayments on this loan without having to borrow again, making the 
lending unsustainable for her.
So our adjudicator felt that MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided the loan to Miss C and 
upheld her complaint. 
MoneyBoat hasnt responded to our adjudicators view and the deadline for responses has 
now passed.  .
So, as the complaint isnt yet settled, it comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. I have taken all this 
into consideration and having done so, I am upholding Miss Cs complaint for broadly the 
same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive thought carefully about what this all means for Miss Cs complaint. 
Before lending to Miss C, MoneyBoat asked her for details of her income and normal 
expenditure. And MoneyBoat carried out checks on Miss Cs credit file.I agree with our adjudicator that, given the particular circumstances of Miss Cs case, 
MoneyBoat should reasonably have seen that this loan was likely to be unsustainable and it 
shouldnt have provided it. 
I say this because when Miss C asked for the loan, MoneyBoat saw that she had used 99% 
of the available credit on her credit cards and that shed been using her cards to obtain cash 
advances  which is a particularly expensive way to obtain spending money and unlikely to 
be the preferred way to do this for someone who has other options. There was also a default 
shown within the last 12 months which MoneyBoat would have understood to mean that 
shed had problems keeping up with the contractual payments owed on at least one of her 
active accounts during this time. Its credit checks showed that she had taken out what looks 
like a payday loan a couple of months before applying for this loan, which she was still 
paying for. And she had taken another unsecured loan when she borrowed £428 around 
6 months earlier  which she hadnt finished paying for either.  
So I think there were clear warning signs that her dependency on credit was already 
excessive having regard to her income. 
MoneyBoats records show it relied on information showing that Miss Cs income was 
£1,620. The repayment she needed to make when she took out this loan worked out at 
around 28% of her take home pay just for this loan alone  and MoneyBoat was aware that 
she had other credit debt that she needed to pay as well and her credit history already 
showed signs of financial distress. Thinking about her overall financial situation, I think 
MoneyBoat, as a responsible lender, should have been aware that she was unlikely to be 
able to make the monthly repayments in a way that would be sustainably affordable. So 
MoneyBoat shouldnt have provided the loan to Miss C. And for these reasons, Im upholding 
Miss Cs complaint about this loan.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Miss C, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. For 
example, having been declined this lending Miss C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between Miss C and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible. 
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is now 
impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss C in a compliant 
way at this time. Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would 
be fair or reasonable to conclude that Miss C would more likely than not have taken up any 
one of these options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case 
for what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss C to repay the principal amount that she borrowed 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has had to pay interest and charges 
on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her.
MoneyBoat should do the following:
A. add together the total of the repayments made by Miss C towards interest, fees and charges 
on the loan, not including anything already refunded in respect of this loan
B. calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss C which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss C originally made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled
C.  Pay Miss C the total of A" plus B
D.  remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Cs complaint and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman