DRN-3545783
The complaint
Ms C and Mr H are unhappy with what Great Lakes Insurance SE did after they made a
claim on their wedding insurance policy.
What happened
Ms C and Mr H took out wedding insurance with Great Lakes to cover a wedding originally
scheduled for August 2020. They subsequently amended the policy to cover a revised date
in May 2021. However, in February that year they noticed their wedding venue had been
advertised for sale. Later that month the venue confirmed a sale had been agreed so it
wouldnt be able to host the wedding.
Ms C and Mr H were able to find an alternative venue but claimed on their policy for
irrecoverable costs relating to the original wedding and the increased cost of some aspects
of the rearranged event.
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said what happened wasnt covered by the policy
Ms C and Mr H took out. Cancellation because a venue had been sold wasnt an insured
event. And while the policy did cover the financial failure of suppliers, the company which
owned the venue wasnt bankrupt or in liquidation and was still registered on Companies
House.
Our investigator agreed with Great Lakes the claim wasnt covered. Ms C and Mr H thought
it was. They said the policy provided cover where the wedding was cancelled by the
relevant authority and thought this applied here. And the venue company was active on
Companies House in name only and wouldnt have been able to host their wedding. They
also argued the claim should be considered under a clause relating to the non-appearance
on the wedding day of a wedding services supplier. And they were also unhappy with how 
their claim and complaint had been handled by Great Lakes. 
I reached a provisional decision on the complaint earlier this month. In summary I said:
I appreciate it must have been extremely distressing for Ms C and Mr H to find their wedding
venue was for sale. I dont think its in dispute that, as a result, they couldnt have gone
ahead with the wedding as planned and needed to find an alternative venue. Its fortunate
they were able to do so though I recognise they incurred costs in doing that. And I
understand why they then made a claim on their wedding insurance for those costs.
But their policy doesnt cover them for every eventuality. For cover to be available what
happened needs, as a starting point, to fall within one of the insured events set out in the
policy. And although the policy does provide cover for cancellation or rearrangement thats
only where one of a specified list of events has taken place. That includes: 
the booked venue for the Wedding or Wedding Reception being unable to hold Your
Wedding due to an outbreak of infectious or contagious disease, damage to the venue,
murder or suicide at the premises or closure of the venue by the relevant authority
Mr H argues that applies in this case because the venue was closed by the relevant
authority (it was sold by the company that owned it). But I dont think thats a reasonable
interpretation of the wording.
I appreciate theres no definition of relevant authority in the policy. But if the term didnt
include relevant authority it would cover closure by the owner. I think the inclusion of that
additional wording must therefore give a different meaning to that section. And I think a
reasonable interpretation is that the venue has been closed by an external body with the
power to enforce that decision, for example a government body or local authority. That isnt
what happened here so I dont think the claim Ms C and Mr H made is covered by this part of
their policy.
Ms C and Mr H argue the claim should be covered under the failure of suppliers section.
This does provide cover for irrecoverable deposits and additional costs in arranging
alternative wedding services. But thats only where this follows the bankruptcy or liquidation
of any pre booked Wedding Services Supplier contracted to and paid for by You.
In this case Great Lakes said there wasnt evidence to show the company which owned the
wedding venue is bankrupt or in liquidation; theyre still showing as active on Companies
House. And I havent seen anything to show thats incorrect. Ms C and Mr H argue that as
the venue had been sold it wouldnt have been able to host the wedding. I accept thats the
case. But under the terms of their policy that isnt the test. The question is whether the
supplier is bankrupt or in liquidation which isnt the case here.
Ms C and Mr H also argued the claim should be covered under a separate cancellation
provision which refers to the the total non-appearance on the Wedding day of any booked
and paid for professional Wedding Services Suppliers. Our investigator didnt think the
venue would fall within the definition of a wedding services supplier.
However, I note the comments Ms C and Mr H have made about this and I think Great Lakes
must have accepted the venue was a supplier because it considered whether there was
cover for the claim under the failure of suppliers section of the policy. But even if the venue
does fall within that definition, I dont think cover is available for the claim Ms C and Mr H
made.
The term refers to the total non-appearance on the Wedding Day of any booked and paid
for professional Wedding Services suppliers. So the services need to not appear on the
wedding day. I think that would reasonably cover an issue such as caterers unexpectedly not
turning up on the day of the wedding  leading to the wedding then being cancelled or
curtailed.
I dont think thats what happened here. Ms C and Mr H knew well in advance of their
wedding day the venue wouldnt be able to host the wedding and had received a refund of
the amount theyd paid (less £600). And theyd agreed a rearranged date with an alternative
venue. So there wasnt a non-appearance by a supplier on the day of the wedding because
the original venue was no longer contracted to provide that service. And I dont think any of
the other insured events under cancellation would apply here either.
Ive also considered Ms C and Mr Hs concerns about how their claim and complaint were
handled. I dont think there was any unnecessary delay in a decision being reached on their
claim as this appears to have taken place around a week after the claim was received by
Great Lakes. I appreciate that decision was made without Great Lakes discussing the claim
with Mr H but I dont think it was unreasonable of Great Lakes to conclude it already had the
information it needed to reach a decision. And I can see Mr H did in any case have the
opportunity to put further points across in subsequent calls with Great Lakes.Mr H also says he didnt receive a response to his complaint within the eight weeks
timeframe Great Lakes is allowed to provide this. And he disputes the date of the final
response letter Great Lakes says was sent. However, its clear Mr H did have a response to
his complaint by 30 June (12 days after Great Lakes says it was originally sent). So even if
there was delay in providing this to him, I dont think it significantly impacted his ability to
progress matters following that.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes didnt have any comments on my provisional decision. Ms C and Mr H did make 
some further points. In summary they said:
Theyd initially told Great Lakes the relevant authority was the company which owned the 
venue (and so its decision to sell should be covered by the policy). However, they 
accepted the company was still active on Companies House and there wasnt evidence 
of the property sale having completed;
But when cancelling the wedding the venue told them this was a result of a Government 
decision to close wedding venues (related to Covid-19) and no date to reopen had been 
given. In fact the rules at the time would have allowed a wedding with limited numbers to 
go ahead but there were health and safety measures and other protocols and 
assessments that needed to be adhered to;
They thought it was reasonable to assume the venue must have decided it couldnt meet 
those and it was therefore having to close as a result of Government legislation. This 
therefore met the test of closure by the relevant authority meaning their claim should 
have been accepted; 
They provided more information on how their claim and complaint were dealt with which 
they felt showed there had been failings by Great Lakes. They thought it should learn 
from these to improve the experience for others in future; 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Ms C and Mr H have accepted closure by the venue (due to the sale of the property) 
isnt something thats covered by their policy. However, theyve suggested the wedding 
couldnt go ahead because Covid-19 restrictions imposed by the Government amounted to 
closure of the venue by the relevant authority (meeting the terms of the policy). 
I appreciate (and had previously seen) that when the venue emailed them in February 2021 
it said it was having to close due to Covid-19 as the government has closed wedding 
venues with no foreseeable date to reopen. But that wasnt correct because before that 
email was sent the Government had announced a roadmap out of lockdown which included 
a proposed timescale for the reopening of indoor hospitality and indicated that should 
happen in May. I also understand the venue had previously told Mr H theyd agreed a sale in 
principle and were closing down as a wedding venue. 
It's not clear whether the sale did in fact complete (though theres no indication the venue is 
still in operation as a wedding location). But Mr H previously told us he thought the venue 
had tried to use Covid-19 as an excuse for cancelling the wedding as hed found the 
property for sale on a website prior to the roadmap announcement. I think thats plausible based on the evidence Ive seen. So I think its likely it was the proposed sale of the venue 
(rather than something related to government restrictions) which meant the wedding couldnt 
go ahead. On that basis (and for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision) this isnt 
a claim thats covered by Ms C and Mr Hs policy. 
In any event, even if Im wrong about that, I still dont think what happened would meet the 
requirements of Ms C and Mr Hs policy. The policy terms refer to closure of the venue by 
the relevant authority. I agree the government would reasonably be regarded as a relevant 
authority. But as Ive outlined above (and Ms C and Mr H have acknowledged) venues 
werent closed by the government at the time their wedding was due to take place. 
Ms C and Mr H have suggested the venue decided not to reopen because it couldnt meet 
the ongoing health and safety requirements that were in place. But even if theyre right, that 
would mean the venue had taken the decision to remain closed when it could have 
reopened. I dont think that would meet the terms of their policy which, as Ive said, 
references closure by the relevant authority. 
Ive also considered the further points Ms C and Mr H have made about how their claim and 
complaint were handled. Theyve flagged in particular a delay in dealing with matters after 
they submitted a claim through a website and the contact they then needed to have to follow 
matters up. 
I can see reference in an email from Mr H to a website claim being made on 14 March 2021. 
However, its unclear if that reached Great Lakes. But even if it did and wasnt actioned as it 
should have been a decision on their claim was nevertheless reached on 22 April. I 
appreciate that might not have happened without Ms C and Mr H making further calls to 
follow matters up. And the evidence suggests Great Lakes could have handled things better 
in this period. But it also appears thats what led Great Lakes to prioritise its handling of their 
claim with a speedy reply then provided in response to the further contact Mr H made. 
I also understand Mr Hs ongoing concern about the date on the final response letter he 
subsequently received. But as Ive said this didnt prevent him from pursuing matters with 
our service. Overall, and taking into account that Ms C and Mr H did receive an outcome 
around five weeks after their website claim, I dont think theres more Great Lakes needs to 
do to put things right here. 
However, I appreciate Ms C and Mr H would like Great Lakes to learn from any identified 
issues and I think they raise a reasonable point about whether a more vulnerable customer 
would have been able to pursue matters in a similar situation. Ive asked our investigator to 
send a copy of their most recent response to Great Lakes so its aware of their concerns and 
can consider any learning for the future. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr H to accept or reject my 
decision before 20 July 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman