DRN-4370138
The complaint
Miss M complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio) unfairly recorded adverse information, 
including a default, with credit reference agencies regarding her running credit account.
What happened
Miss M had a running credit account with Studio which was used to finance and purchase 
items in December 2020 and January 2021. Miss M subsequently told Studio she hadnt 
authorised those purchases and did not receive the goods.
Studio responded to a complaint about non-receipt of the items in September 2021. It 
accepted one item hadnt been delivered to Miss M and credited her the associated sum. 
It held Miss M responsible for the lending on the other items due to the time which had 
passed.
Miss M contacted Studio in May 2022 because it had defaulted her account. I understand 
that she repaid the balance of the account at this point. Studio didnt change its position 
about the provision of the goods, but it refunded the cost of the purchases in question and 
paid Miss M £50 for compensation. It said that it had asked (presumably internally) 
whether the default could be removed, but subsequently said the request had been 
declined.
Miss M referred the matter to this service. She said that as a result of the default shed 
had to move in with family, was almost declined a job and lending shed taken out 
subsequently was subject to a higher interest rate than it otherwise wouldve been. Miss M 
said she hadnt received the goods in question and was not told that her account would be 
defaulted. Miss M made a number of points about the unsatisfactory manner in which 
Studio had handled her complaint, and the significant adverse impact it had on her. She 
highlighted that Studio had agreed to remove the default, only to not do so. Miss M asked 
for the default to be removed and to be fairly compensated for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Our investigator said that Miss Ms complaint about whether shed been provided with the 
goods in question wasnt something we could consider as it was about Studio having 
acted as a retailer. They accepted we could consider whether Studio had handled Miss 
Ms regulated finance agreement fairly though. All things considered they found that 
Studio had provided lending to Miss M for the disputed items and as such she was 
required to repay it. They said that Studio had written to Miss M regarding the status of 
the account and the consequences of non-payment, so it was fair for it to default the 
account.
Miss M disagreed. She pointed out that Studio had refunded the cost of the items, implying 
that it had accepted they hadnt been received, but still defaulted the account in any case. 
Miss M asked for an ombudsmans decision on the case.
Subsequently, whilst awaiting allocation to an ombudsman, Miss M made this service 
aware that Studio had written to her to say that it had identified mistakes it had made in 
relation to her account. It accepted that between August 2021 and July 2022 it hadnt 
reported accurate information with credit reference agencies. Its letter said it would 
correct the adverse information it had recorded, and it paid Miss M £50 compensation.
Before issuing this decision, I asked Studio to elaborate on exactly what mistakes it 
referred to having been made, what it had recorded with credit reference agencies in 
relation to Miss Ms account and whether the default had now been removed.
Studio responded to say that it had recognised that whilst a freeze had been applied to 
Miss Ms account, instead of suppressing fees, it had also suppressed statements, so they 
hadnt been sent to Miss M. It also said that it ought not to have reported any adverse 
credit information during the time in question and said it had cleared Miss Ms credit file.
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision on it. In summary, I said;
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im 
required to take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances
I broadly agree with what our investigator said about our ability to consider Miss Ms 
assertion that she hadnt received goods from Studio  it acted in two different capacities 
in dealing with Miss M; as a retailer as well as the provider of regulated lending.
In selling goods to Miss M, as well as handling any dispute about the provision of those 
goods, Studio was acting as a retailer. This service does not have the power to consider 
complaints about activities Studio carried on as a retailer, so I wont make any finding on 
this point.
That being said, Studio also provided Miss M with regulated lending, and I think her 
complaint  in the most part  is about how Studio handled her finance agreement. Thats 
something this service does have the power to consider a complaint about.
The agreement Miss M had with Studio required her to repay the lending it had provided 
for the goods in question regardless of whether she had an underlying dispute about the 
provision of the goods.
I think its fair to say that Miss M and Studios version of events which led to this complaint 
differ significantly. For example, theres some ambiguity about when Miss M first raised 
her concerns about being charged for goods she didnt ask for or receive, as well as when 
Miss M made Studio aware that shed changed physical and email addresses. Thats a 
significant point because it seems that Studio had attempted to correspond with Miss M 
about the account at what she says were incorrect addresses during 2021.
In its submission to this service Studio accepts that despite recognising Miss M as 
vulnerable, it failed to investigate her assertion that she hadnt authorised purchases nor 
received the goods, in August 2021. It accepts that it failed to complete an investigation 
into Miss Ms assertion of fraud. It says the outcome it ultimately reached on Miss Ms 
complaint might have been different had it not failed to do this. Studio also accepts that it 
had found calls during which Miss M had suggested she was no longer living at the 
address it held for her, but it didnt question whether shed moved. So, Miss M might not 
have received letters it had sent her.Additionally, I think Miss M has raised a valid point in questioning why Studio chose to 
refund the value of items she said she didnt receive but continued to report a default 
nonetheless. Our investigator asked Studio to account for this, as if it had reached this 
position at an earlier date then arguably the default might not have been applied. In my 
view, Studio hadnt provided a clear reason for the rationale behind this. Additionally, I 
think it's clear that Studio gave the impression it would remove adverse information from 
Miss Ms credit file but chose not to do so.
I find it plausible that Miss M didnt receive the correspondence Studio says it sent her 
about the status of the account and the need for her to make payments towards it. I say 
this for two reasons  firstly, Miss Ms actions speak to it because she repaid the balance 
of the account at the point she says she became aware of the balance in May 2022. 
Secondly, Studio has accepted that it suppressed sending Miss M statements during the 
relevant period. So, whether or not Studio held the correct address for Miss M, Im not 
confident that the letters its shown this service were actually sent. And, given that Studio 
seems to accept it found evidence of Miss M having told it she wasnt living at the address 
it held for her, I think Studios responsible if it tried to contact Miss M at an incorrect 
address.
I think its fair to say that Studio hasnt been clear about whats its now recorded 
regarding the account with credit reference agencies. Miss M has said that she cant see 
a default being recorded with credit references agencies anymore, but shes provided a 
screenshot from a credit reference facility provided by her current account provider which 
shows that a default was recorded by Studio during 2021.
Despite asking Studio specifically, its not told this service whether its still reporting a 
default regarding the account with credit reference agencies. However, for all of the 
reasons set out above, Im not satisfied that it would be fair to continue to do so, if it still is. 
It seems to me that Studio has now accepted that it ought not to have defaulted Miss Ms 
account on the basis that it was on a payment freeze. I think its fair to say that even if that 
wasnt the reason the default ought not to have been applied, there are a number of other 
reasons it shouldnt have been  which Ive explained above.
Given this, I require Studio to remove the default from Miss Ms credit file, as well as any 
adverse information it recorded in relation to the account as far back as the original 
purchases she disputes  so December 2020. It should also record that the account was 
settled in May 2022. Additionally, I intend to require Studio to compensate Miss M for the 
trouble and upset shed been caused by the way its handled matters.
Miss M has spoken in detail about the impact of Studios actions  particularly the 
application of the default  have had on her. From what shes said I accept that she was 
particularly vulnerable at the time the events which led to this complaint. And whilst she 
hasnt provided a significant amount of evidence about the impact the default had on her, 
Ive found what shes said plausible  particularly that it made it difficult, or at least more 
challenging to obtain credit, that she had to move in with family as a result of not being 
able to secure a rental contract and that it couldve potentially jeopardised employment 
opportunities.
In addition to this, I think its fair to say that Studio didnt handle matters well. For example, 
it seems to accept that it failed to update Miss Ms address, investigate her assertion that 
she hadnt authorised payments and, in my view, gave ambiguous answers about whether 
the default would be removed.
Taking all of those things into account, I think its fair to say that Miss M has been caused a significant amount of worry and inconvenience by Studios actions. As a result, I intend 
to require it to pay Miss M a total of £500 to the extent that it hasnt already. So, thats to 
include the two lots of £50 already offered to Miss M.
My provisional decision said that I intended to require Studio to;
- Remove the default it recorded with credit reference agencies as well as any 
adverse information dating back to December 2020 and record the account as 
settled in May 2022; and
- Pay Miss M £500 compensation to the extent that it has not already.
Studio accepted my provisional decision. Miss M said that the compensation I said I was 
going to require Studio to pay was insignificant, due to the mental strain caused and the 
implications it had on her. She asked for a higher level of compensation.
The case has been passed back to me to make my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided what I consider to be materially new evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. As a result, I find no reason to depart from my position that to fairly 
resolve matters Studio should remove adverse credit information and pay Miss M 
compensation. 
Ive given careful thought to what Miss M has said on the level of compensation I intended to 
award. Ive also revisited and reconsidered all of her submissions about the impact matters 
had on her. Having done so, and mindful of awards made by this service in cases of a 
similar nature, Im satisfied that a total of £500 compensation is a reasonable amount for 
Miss M to receive as a result of the trouble and upset shes been caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I require Studio Retail Limited to;
- Remove the default it recorded with credit reference agencies as well as any 
adverse information dating back to December 2020 and record the account as 
settled in May 2022; and
- Pay Miss M £500 compensation to the extent that it has not already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman