DRN-2553451
The complaint
 Mr R has complained that Carcashpoint Limited irresponsibly lent to him. Mr R is also 
unhappy that Carcashpoint didnt remove the HPI marker from his car after hed repaid the 
loan.
What happened
Mr R took out three loans between July 2013 and July 2015. From the information provided, 
the details of the loans are as follows
Loan 
number Start dateLoan 
amount (£) TermWeekly 
repayment 
amount (£) End date
115 July 2013
1,030 156 weeks 30.8325 July 
2015
230 July 2013
1,000 156 weeks 29.4925 July 
2015
3 9 May 2014 730 156 weeks 21.5623 May 
2014
One of our adjudicators looked at what both parties said and thought that Carcashpoint 
shouldnt have lent Mr R loan 3 and that it should have removed the hire purchase 
investigation (HPI) marker from his car after he repaid the loans. Our adjudicator didnt 
recommend that loans 1 and 2 should be upheld but recommended a refund of interest and 
charges on loan 3 as well as £200 for the inconvenience Mr R suffered as a result of the HPI 
marker.
Carcahspoint didnt respond. So, the case was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account before agreeing to lend. The 
key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Before agreeing to lend any of the loans, I can see that Carcashpoint checked Mr Rs bank 
statements. I can also see that before agreeing to lend loan 3, it asked him about his 
monthly income and expenditure as well.
Given the length of the loans and the fact that loans 2 and 3 were running concurrently with 
previous loans, I think that it would have been reasonable for Carcashpoint to have built a 
clearer picture of Mr Rs financial circumstances before agreeing to lend any of the loans. It 
could have done this by asking Mr R about his financial circumstances and possibly carrying 
out a credit search on Mr R. While Carcashpoint wasnt required to do to carry out specific 
checks, I think it needed to show that it understood Mr Rs financial circumstances clearly 
and I dont think it did that. 
From the bank statements provided, I can see that Mr R was earning over £2,100 at the time 
of the loans and I havent seen anything within the bank statement, or the credit search 
result Mr R provided to this service that suggest hed have struggled to make the repayment 
on loans 1 and 2. So I think that even if Carcashpoint had taken its checks further, its likely 
to have found that Mr R could afford the repayments on both these loans.
Mr R has said Carcashpoint overvalued his car when it chose to lend him the loans, he says 
although the combined capital amount for loans 1 and 2 was £2,030, with interest, he was 
due to repay more than £8,000.
Ive considered the value of the car around this time and from my investigation, the car 
would have been valued between £3,800 and £4,470. The value of the car was sufficient to 
cover the capital borrowing and I cant say that based solely on the valuation of the car, it 
was wrong to lend loans 1 and 2. I think the overall circumstances of both those loans, 
suggest that Mr R could afford the repayments.
By the time of loan 3, I think the results of Carcashpoints checks along with what it knew 
about Mr R show that it shouldnt have lent to him. Mr R had problems repaying his previous 
loans and had incurred several late payment charges by the time of loan 3. Also, at the time 
Mr R was requesting loan 3, he hadnt fully repaid loans 1 and 2 and so he would have three 
loans concurrently with Carcashpoint. I can also see that from the bank statements 
Carcashpoint obtained, Mr R was repaying another lender and was also in debt collection on 
another credit account.
Taking all these factors together, Carcashpoint should have been aware that Mr R was likely 
to struggle to repay loan 3 and it shouldnt have lent to him.
Did Carcashpoint act unfairly in some other way?
Mr R has said that when he tried to part exchange his car, he was unable to do so as there 
was still a charge from Carcashpoint showing on the car. Mr R said the charge should have 
been removed after he repaid loan 1 and 2 in July 2015.Ive seen correspondence between Mr R and Carcashpoint to show that it didnt take the 
charge off in 2015 but only did so in 2016 when Mr R contacted it. Carcashpoint has 
provided a report to show that there were no HPI searches on Mr Rs car by a third party 
between 2013 to 2015. In response to this Mr R has said he only found out about the charge 
when he was declined the part-exchange.
As stated above, Carcashpoint hasnt responded to the adjudicators view so I dont know 
what it disagrees with, but Ive thought about all the information here. Its clear that 
Carcashpoint should have removed the charge in full in 2015 after Mr R repaid his loans but 
it didnt. While Carcashpoint has provided an audit trail to show that there were no HPI 
searches on Mr Rs car during the period. I think given the timing of when Mr R contacted 
Carcashpoint about the charge  nearly a year after he had repaid all the loans and the fact 
that Carcashpoint confirms that the charge hadnt been removed, and so the car wasnt HPI 
clear persuades me that Mr R likely found out about it when he tried to part exchange. I also 
think that the charge most likely prevented him from being able to part exchange his car. Its 
reasonable to think that Mr R got the information about the charge still being on his car from 
somewhere and theres no evidence to show that Carcashpoint gave Mr R this information 
before he contacted it.
Carcashpoints action in this respect has led to some inconvenience of Mr R and it needs to 
put things right.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr R, Carcashpoint should:
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result of loan 3; and
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file as a result of the interest 
and charges on loan 3;
pay Mr R £200 compensation for the charge left when on his car when it should have 
been removed.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Carcashpoint to take off tax from this interest. Carcashpoint must 
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Rs complaint. Carcashpoint Limited 
should pay Mr R compensation as set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman