DRN-4052081
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a claim under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S contacted Aviva to make a claim for storm damage. Aviva assessed the claim and 
declined it on the basis of gradual deterioration and wear and tear.
When Mr S complained, Aviva maintained its decision. So, Mr S complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said although it was fair for Aviva to decline 
the claim, it took many months to reach its decision. He said Aviva should pay £150 
compensation and provide a written apology.
As Mr S didnt agree the claim had been fairly declined, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions around the time of the claim and these show 
windspeeds of up to 64mph. These would be considered storm speed winds under the terms 
of the policy. I also think a storm could cause damage to a roof, including damage to ridge 
tiles. So, I think the answer to the first two question is yes.
So, Ive thought about the third question on the main cause of the damage. Ive looked at the 
surveyors report and the photos. Ive also seen photos that were provided by Mr S as part of 
the claim. The claim was declined because the surveyor found age-related deterioration 
along the ridge mortar line. Ive seen a photo of the ridge tiles, which showed a missing ridge 
tile and issues with the mortar. So, I think it was reasonable that the surveyor concluded 
there were pre-existing issues with the mortar line. The policy didnt cover gradual 
deterioration, so I think it was reasonable that Aviva didnt deal with the roof. 
Mr S also said the ridge tile had pierced a flat roof allowing water to enter his property and 
damage a ceiling. By the time the surveyor visited, which Im aware was a few months after 
the damage was found, the surveyor said the flat roof had already been replaced. Ive seen 
a photo of the previous roof with a ridge tile sat on it. A split isnt visible, although Im aware 
Mr S has explained how the split was found. There are also signs of patching to the flat roof. 
Aviva reviewed this photo again while the complaint was with this service but didnt find any 
evidence of storm damage to the roof or that there was cover under the policy. I think that 
was reasonable in the circumstances.
There was also internal damage. Aviva assessed this and didnt find evidence this was the 
result of a one-off storm incident. It also considered whether there might be other cover 
under the policy. However, Mr S didnt have extended accidental damage cover. So, Aviva 
declined this part of the claim. In the circumstances, I think Aviva acted reasonably in how it 
assessed the claim.
There were a range of delays in how the claim was dealt with. Aviva has described the 
volume of claims it was dealing with due to the storm conditions. I can understand that this 
might have caused some delays, but it took about four months for a surveyor to visit to 
assess the claim. I think this will have caused Mr S inconvenience and concern about when 
he would find out whether his claim would be covered. Mr S also said he wanted an apology. 
Our investigator said Aviva should provide Mr S with a written apology and Aviva agreed to 
do this. So, I think Aviva should Aviva should pay Mr S £150 compensation for the impact on 
him of how his claim was dealt with and provide him with a written apology.
Putting things right
Aviva should pay £150 compensation and provide Mr S with a written apology.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld in part. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr S £150 compensation and a written apology.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman