DRN-3781671
The complaint
Mr P complains about Domestic and General Insurance PLC (D&G) who replaced his 
appliance, following a claim under his gadget insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr P had a gadget insurance policy with D&G and made a claim for a faulty fridge. It sent an 
engineer who found that it was beyond economic repair. In line with the policy terms and 
conditions, D&G offered Mr P options for a replacement fridge. 
Mr P chose the fridge that he required, but when it arrived, he found that it was smaller than 
his previous fridge. So, Mr P complained to D&G. He said that he was only given one option 
and had to take it, as he needed a fridge. There was no alternative provided.  He also 
complained about the delay it took for D&G to replace the fridge. 
In its final response, D&G said that as Mr P had chosen the appliance, it was his 
responsibility to check the dimensions. And the fridge was a similar replacement.  Mr P was 
given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that D&G had settled the claim fairly. That D&G had supplied a similar appliance (not a 
like for like), as per the policy terms. So, she was unable to ask D&G to do anything further. 
D&G accepted the view, Mr P did not. He said that he was rushed into accepting the 
replacement. That he should have the right to change the replacement, as he was unhappy 
with the product. He said that he spent a long-time chasing D&G for updates and for this he 
should have had compensation. Finally, he said that D&G had provided him with poor 
customer service, and he would never recommend the service. So, he asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, but for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr P, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr P held a policy with D&G that covered his appliances. His fridge broke down and he 
contacted D&G to make a claim. It sent an engineer and eventually, the fridge was declared 
beyond economic repair. 
I note that D&G gave Mr P options in order for him to choose a new fridge. I have reviewed 
the policy terms and conditions to see what its obligations were under the policy. The policy 
provides: we will arrange to replace your product with one of a same or similar make a 
technical specification. From this, I think it is clear that the replacement will be on the basis 
of a product that has the same or similar specifications as the damaged/faulty appliance. 
The policy does not allow for a like for like replacement. 
D&G said that the specification of the options that it provided for Mr P, were similar to the 
faulty fridge.  Although I accept that Mr P said that the size of the fridge was smaller. He 
makes no mention of whether the other specifications are dis-similar to his previous fridge. 
Also, D&G said that Mr P couldve contacted them if there was an issue with the 
replacement. But it said that Mr P didnt. So, Im satisfied that the specifications were similar, 
and as the policy is to replace the appliance on the basis of similar or the same, I think that 
D&G has complied with the policy terms. 
In addition, D&G said that Mr P was given options to select a replacement fridge and choose 
the replacement. Those options were either free or ones that levied a charge. And because 
he chose the replacement, I think that it would be more likely than not, that at the time, Mr P 
wouldve considered the replacement was suitable for his needs. 
I understand that Mr P complained that he was rushed into selecting a replacement. So, I 
have looked at the timeline, and I dont think he was. Ill explain why. Mr P reported the issue 
with his fridge on 5 March 2022.  D&G obtained the beyond economic repair report around 
three weeks later and two days after receiving the report, the replacement process began. 
Mr P was sent a link, detailing similar models for replacement of his fridge. From the date of 
initial report, until the replacement process started was around four weeks. So, I cant agree 
that Mr P would have been rushed into selecting a replacement. Nor can I see that there 
were avoidable delays in the claims procedure. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr P will be, Im 
satisfied that D&G dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly. Followed the policy terms and 
conditions and provided Mr P with a similar replacement fridge. So, I cant ask D&G to 
reasonably do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman