DRN-3884036
The complaint
Miss G complains that after she re-mortgaged with Accord Mortgages Limited it asked her to 
make an additional interest payment that she hadnt been told about. Shes also unhappy 
that she had to pay an early repayment charge.  
What happened
Miss G re-mortgaged with Accord in 2022. She expected to make monthly payments as set 
out in her contract. She says she wasnt told shed have to make an additional interest 
payment in the first month.  
Our investigator said the mortgage offer sent to Miss G says an additional interest payment 
is required 14 days after completion and that details of the payment will be sent to her. Our 
investigator said Accords offer of £65 for poor communication when Miss G called was fair. 
Miss G had also complained about her previous lender applying an ERC when she re-
mortgaged within the same group. Our investigator said it wasnt fair to require Accord to 
refund this.
Miss G said she was unhappy and wanted to take matters further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Accord sent a mortgage offer to Miss G in June 2022. The mortgage offer set out her usual 
monthly payments. But when Accord issued the mortgage offer it didnt know exactly when 
the mortgage would complete. The offer was valid until the end of August 2022, and so the 
mortgage could complete at any time in this period. 
Miss Gs mortgage completed on 22 July 2022. Accord wrote to Miss G on 26 July 2022 
saying she needed to make two payments in August 2022. Her usual monthly payment 
(which included interest from 1 August 2022) and an additional payment of about £76. The 
additional payment was for the interest accrued from completion to the end of July 2022. 
Miss G says she expected to pay interest from the first of the month, as set out in her 
contract. She says the contract didnt say shed have to pay additional interest. I think the 
mortgage offer did say this. 
The mortgage offer says payment calculations assume the mortgage would complete on 
1 July 2022. Miss G would have known the mortgage didnt complete on 1 July 2022. The 
mortgage offer also says Accord will write to confirm the actual monthly payments once the 
mortgage has completed. It says interest will be charged daily. 
In the part of the mortgage offer headed what happens next? it says interest will be 
charged from the date funds are sent to the solicitor. It says interest will accrue between 
completion and the end of the month which wouldnt be collected by the monthly payment. 
The mortgage offer says this initial interest must be paid within 14 days of completion. It 
says Accord will write with details of the initial interest payment, the monthly payments and 
the dates these are due shortly after completion.
I think it was fair for Accord to apply interest from when it sent funds to the solicitor. I think 
this was consistent with the mortgage offer. And I think Accord wrote to Miss G promptly 
after completion to tell her what payments were due in August 2022.
Miss G called Accord when she received the letter setting out the payments, as she hadnt 
expected to pay the initial interest. Ive listened to the call recordings. Accord said it gave 
Miss G conflicting information when she called and this caused confusion. Accord offered 
£65 for this. I think in the circumstances thats fair and reasonable. Accord gave correct 
information about the initial interest later in the call and in the final response letter sent in 
early August 2022.
Miss G is unhappy that her previous lender applied an early repayment charge when she re-
mortgaged. Accord is in the same business group as Miss Gs previous lender and it seems 
Miss G thought this would mean the ERC wouldnt be applied. I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that it would be fair and reasonable to require Accord to compensate Miss G 
for a payment she made to another lender. 
I should make it clear that Im only looking into Miss Gs complaint about Accord here. I cant 
look into or make any findings relating to any concerns she has about her previous lender, 
which is a different business. 
My final decision
My decision is that Accord Mortgages Limited should pay £65 to Miss G, if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman