DRN-4175803
The complaint
Ms S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) allowed an account to be opened and 
operated by a fraudster and that HSBC didnt do enough when it was notified the payments 
she sent to its customer were fraudulent.
What happened
Ms S is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Ms S throughout this decision.
Ms S says that in around February 2018 she met someone Ill refer to in this decision as O 
through online dating. The relationship developed and Ms S met O in person. As time went 
on O asked Ms S to lend him money for things like business loans, rent, an investment, and 
the cost of living in periods when he was setting up businesses. In 2021 Ms S pressed O to 
return her funds. He told her he needed to go abroad to sort out his business affairs. O then 
gave various excuses for not returning and then claimed to have been captured and Ms S 
was asked to pay a ransom.
Between 2018 and September 2021 Ms S transferred around £42,000 to Os account with 
HSBC. 
Ms S realised shed been the victim of a callous scam and took steps to try to recover funds. 
She says that HSBC, as Os bank (and so the bank that received the funds she sent to O) 
shouldnt have allowed O to open an account and send huge amounts of fraudulently 
obtained money from the account.
HSBC confirmed to Ms S that relevant documentation was provided to open the account, 
that before receiving her complaint it had no concerns about Os account and that no funds 
remained to be recovered. Ms S was unhappy and asked this service to investigate her 
complaint. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this case didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
considered HSBCs actions as the bank that received fraudulent funds under the Lending 
Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) and said that:
- The opening of the account doesnt fall within the jurisdiction of this service.
- There was nothing about the activity on Os account that would have caused HSBC 
concern.
- By the time HSBC was notified of the scam no funds remained in Os account to 
return to Ms S. 
The case has been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that this scam had and continues to have a significant impact on Ms S. But 
being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle her to a refund from the bank that 
received her money. 
HSBC has signed up to the CRM Code. The CRM Code sets out what is expected of the 
Sending Firm and Receiving Firm (in this case HSBC) when payments are made or 
received.
In summary, the obligations for the receiving firm state that firms should:
- Take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being used to launder the proceeds 
of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams.
- Have procedures to prevent, detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP 
scams; and
- Where the receiving Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they may be 
the proceeds of an APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond in a timely 
manner.
Ive carefully considered HSBCs obligations. 
HSBC has shared relevant information with our service in confidence to allow us to 
investigate Ms Ss complaint. Im limited as to how much information I can share with Ms S 
because it relates to a third-party account and is confidential. But Id like to assure her that 
Ive carefully reviewed everything before reaching my decision.
Complaints about receiving banks and any acts or omissions came into our jurisdiction from 
31 January 2019. Ive seen evidence from HSBC to show that the receiving bank account 
was opened prior to 31 January 2019. This means I cant comment on whether there were 
any failings by HSBC when the account was opened.
Ive gone on to consider whether the activity on the receiving bank account ought reasonably 
to have caused HSBC any concern. Whilst data protection reasons mean I cant share any 
information with Ms S, I dont think there was anything relating to the activity on the account 
that should have prompted HSBC to have any concerns. Im also mindful of the fact that Ms 
S made payments to O over a period of three and a half years and that by far the majority of 
these payments were low in value. 
Finally, Ive considered HSBCs actions on receipt of notification of the scam from Ms Ss 
bank. I have seen evidence to show that by the time the sending bank reported the scam to 
HSBC all the funds she transferred to O had been removed. So there was nothing HSBC 
could have done to protect Ms Ss funds or prevent her loss. Im satisfied that once it was 
notified of the scam HSBC took appropriate action.
Whilst Im sorry to disappoint Ms S, I cant reasonably hold HSBC liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman