DRN-4106004
The complaint
Mr N complains about the contact from QDR Solicitors Limited regarding debts its 
attempting to collect. 
What happened
Mr N has explained that two payday loans were fraudulently opened in his name in 2016 and 
2017. A business Ill call L went on to purchase the accounts in Mr Ns name. 
Mr N later raised a complaint with L and explained the debts had come about as a result of 
fraud. L didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint and he referred it to this service. An investigator 
reviewed the complaint but didnt agree L had acted unreasonably by contacting Mr N to 
request repayment of the debts. The investigator issued their view of Mr Ns complaint in 
June 2022 said Mr N could contact the original lenders (or administrators acting in their 
place) to raise concerns about the circumstances under which the loans were approved. 
In September 2022 L appointed QDR to contact Mr N about the outstanding balances. QDR 
sent a number of letters and in November 2022 Mr N raised a complaint. Mr N reiterated his 
complaints that the loans were fraudulent and that he isnt liable for the outstanding balance. 
QDR issued a final response in January 2023 and advised it had contacted L which 
confirmed Mr N had previously raised fraud concerns. L advised QDR that Mr Ns complaint 
hadnt been upheld and that it had referred the matter to one of the original lenders. But the 
original lender asked Mr N to make contact so further investigation could be carried out. 
QDR said Mr N remained liable for the outstanding balances. 
Mr N referred his complaint about QDR to the service and it was passed to an investigator. 
They thought QDR had dealt with Mr Ns complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take any further 
action. Mr N asked to appeal and said one of the debts L and QDR was seeking to collect is 
statute barred. Mr N also said the investigator had failed to acknowledge he was a victim of 
fraud. Mr N explained that despite L referring his concerns to the original creditors no contact 
had been received and that both were either in administration or in the process of entering 
administration. In addition, the investigator arranged for Mr Ns concerns about the way his 
loans were opened to be passed referred to the original creditors investigate. 
As Mr N asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Id like to start by giving some background concerning the way we consider complaints. I 
understand Mr N complains that both loans were fraudulently opened with two separate 
lenders. And Mr N has previously referred a complaint about Ls actions to us. We look at 
complaints on an individual basis. We dont consider complaints about more than one 
business at a time. So whilst I understand Mr N complains the loans came about as a result 
of fraud, Im only able to consider the actions of QDR in this decision. Im not going to make 
a decision about the original lenders or Ls actions in this decision. 
QDR was appointed by L to collect the outstanding balances in September 2022 and went 
on to send letters to Mr N requesting contact to discuss repayments. I havent seen anything 
to suggest QDR was made aware of any disputes Mr N had about the debts before he 
contacted it in November 2022. And when Mr N did contact QDR and gave the background 
to his complaints, it contacted L for further instructions. Given L was the owner of the debts, 
Im satisfied that was a reasonable step for QDR to take. 
Mr N has told us he believes one of the debts is statute barred so QDRs contact went 
against the relevant legislation and regulations it has to follow. As our investigator has said, 
only a court can say whether a debt is statute barred or not. We decide complaints on a fair 
and reasonable basis, taking the relevant rules and regulations into account. I appreciate Mr 
N wants us to make a decision that confirms whether the debt in question is statute barred or 
not. But thats not something were able to do. Ive made my decision on the basis of 
whether it was fair and reasonable for QDR to contact Mr N in the circumstances of his case. 
I think its also fair to add that I wouldnt expect QDR to be the party that decides whether the 
debt in question is statute barred or not. Thats something only the original lenders and debt 
owner can investigate. But Im satisfied that the evidence on file shows QDR made the 
nature of Mr Ns dispute known to L when he complained. 
In much the same way, Mr N asked our investigator to acknowledge he has been the victim 
of fraud. But QDR wasnt the business that lent to Mr N and isnt the owner of the debt. 
Where a dispute of this nature is raised, we would expect the debt collector to refer the 
matter to the debt owner. And I can see thats happened in Mr Ns case. L responded to 
QDRs enquiries to confirm it had advised Mr N to contact the original lender and/or 
administrators to investigate the allegations of fraud further. Im satisfied that QDRs 
approach in reporting Mr Ns concerns to L was reasonable. 
I can see that the investigator has arranged for enquiries to be made to the original lenders. 
Im not going to comment further concerning whether the loans came about due to fraud in 
this decision. But if the loans are found to be fraudulent, Id expect QDR to act on the 
instructions from L concerning whether to continue attempts to collect the outstanding 
balances from Mr N. 
As Ive noted above, Im only able to consider QDRs actions in this decision. Ive considered 
all the available information, including everything Mr N has said and submitted in support of 
his case, but havent been persuaded to uphold this complaint. As Im satisfied QDR dealt 
with Mr Ns complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any other action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman