DRN-1613923
 
The complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund disputed transactions made 
from his credit card.  
What happened
On the early hours of the 16 March 2019 Mr R was in a bar in Poland which Ill call S. He 
explained that he was initially using his debit card but on this being blocked he instead made 
two transactions with his credit card. Mr R said he expected the two transactions in bar S to 
be in the sum of tens of pounds. Mr R explains that the following morning he received a text 
message regarding his debit card asking him to contact Nationwide about suspicious activity 
on his card. On contacting them he also asked about his credit card  and was advised that 
two transactions totalling £732.63 had been authorised. Mr R disputed these payments. 
Nationwide investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. They said there 
was no evidence of fraudulent activity because the transactions were carried out by chip and 
PIN and theyre unable to raise a chargeback or Section 75 claim because Mr R doesnt 
have receipts to show he was overcharged for the transactions. 
As Mr R didnt agree with Nationwides decision, he asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary he felt 
unable to conclude that the transactions had been fraudulent and on balance thought theyd 
been authorised by Mr R. 
Mr R didnt accept our investigators opinion and said:
He doesnt have any receipts for the purchases because he was intimidated by the 
staff at the bar. 
It doesnt cost £700 for a round of drinks.
He believes the transactions were misrepresented and should be covered under 
Section 75.
It was very difficult for him to see what he was agreeing to pay  the chip and PIN 
machine was in another language, it was difficult to identify the currency and the 
lighting in the bar was very poor. He attempted to use an ATM machine instead but 
because he felt intimidated by the bar staff this wasnt possible. 
 
As Mr R didnt accept our investigators opinion its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Generally, Nationwide can hold Mr R liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Rs genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 and Consumer Credit Act 1974  say that is not, on its own, 
enough to enable Nationwide to hold him liable.
So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not 
that Mr R consented to the transactions. Id like to explain a bit more about what I mean 
when looking at consent in this context  so its not about whether Mr S consented to the 
amount of the transactions instead did he consent to two transactions at that time in bar S. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude that Mr R 
authorised the transactions. Although Mr Rs been slightly inconsistent with whether he 
carried out both transactions or not  on first speaking to the bank Mr R explained the he 
carried out two transactions, via his credit card, on the 16 March 2019 in bar S. And I think 
on balance this is what likely happened. Mr R has suggested at other points that his card 
might have been cloned or there are other possibilities for how these transactions were 
carried out. But I dont find this plausible  as our investigator explained Im not aware of any 
examples of a chip being cloned, Mr Rs explained hes not shared his PIN with anyone and 
he was in his possession of his credit card when he reported the disputed transactions. This 
means for a fraudster to have carried out either of the two transactions theyd have needed 
to obtain Mr Rs PIN and also take and replace his card without him noticing. 
I understand that Mr R explains he expected these transactions to be in the region of tens of 
pounds and not totalling just over £730. And hes given a detailed explanation about this, 
including the level of intimidation he felt under whilst in bar S, the inability for him to see the 
chip and PIN machine accurately, interpret the information correctly due to the language 
and the currency used. But ultimately  and I realise this will be disappointing and frustrating 
for Mr R  its the cardholders responsibility to ensure theyre satisfied with the amount of 
the transaction theyre approving. 
Mr Rs raised some additional points in reply to our investigators view. Firstly the question 
about these transactions being covered under Section 75 legislation, because of 
misrepresentation. Ive thought about Mr Rs argument here  but Im afraid I dont agree. I 
say this because there are only a specific number of reasons for Nationwide to raise a 
Section 75 claim or a chargeback, and unfortunately I think theyre justified in not raising this. 
Unfortunately for Mr R he has no evidence, including receipts, to show he should have been 
charged a significantly smaller amount. Or alternatively he didnt receive the goods or 
services purchased at the time. I understand that Mr R believes it is Nationwides 
responsibility to obtain this evidence for him  but this isnt something Id expect them to do. 
Therefore Im satisfied neither a Section 75 or chargeback claim would have any 
reasonable chance of success  and Nationwide were within their rights to refuse to raise 
them. 
Mr R also asked why didnt Nationwide block the transactions on his credit card, when they 
did so on his debit card? Each bank has its own fraud prevention system and Its not my role 
to comment on Nationwide's process . But I can consider whether I think Nationwide's 
system should have triggered in Mr Rs case  and Im satisfied why it didnt. There are a 
number of factors a fraud prevention system needs to take into account including the value 
and pattern of transactions. And until the second transaction was carried out I dont think 
there was an identifiable pattern here. I also understand after the second disputed 
transaction Mr Rs credit card was blocked by Nationwide - which I think is reasonable. If Mr R wishes to pursue this matter further Id suggest that he makes direct contact with the 
merchant to query the two transactions. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr R but I find on balance Mr R authorised the disputed 
transactions. It follows that Nationwide is entitled to hold him liable for them
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman