DRN-3496852
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc allowed a number of withdrawals from his account 
which should not have been authorised. He is represented by his Financial Guardian Mrs H.
What happened
Mrs H says Mr M is a vulnerable adult and limitations had been placed on his Bank of 
Scotland (BoS) account. She says despite those limitations Mr M was able to withdraw over 
£700 from his account. Mrs H says Mr M could have potentially lost that money and says he 
has incurred legal fees at the time the complaint was brought to us of over £130 which he is 
responsible for
BoS accepts it made a mistake and has apologised. It agrees that Mr M shouldnt have been 
allowed to withdraw the money and has given feedback to its staff. BoS says it has paid £50 
compensation.
Mrs H brought the complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator accepted BoS had made a mistake and recommended that it pay a further £75 
compensation. The investigator didnt think it fair to order the legal fees be paid by BoS and 
thought Mr M had benefited from the money.
Mrs H agrees that Mr M had the benefit of the money but says the legal fees which are now 
over £300 ought to be paid and that the compensation isnt enough.
The complaint was referred to me and I asked Mrs H to explain the impact the mistake had 
on Mr M and asked for evidence that he had been billed for the legal work.
Mrs H says the legal costs are outside the fees for normal legal work for acting as Financial 
Guardian and has provided us with an invoice to BoS for £360 dated 15 July 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that BoS should pay a total of £125 
compensation and I dont require it to pay the legal fees for the reasons I will explain.
There is no question that BoS made a mistake by allowing Mr M to withdraw money from his 
account in circumstances where it had clearly been told that he shouldnt be allowed to do 
so. It is difficult to assess the impact that mistake had upon Mr M in the circumstances as 
Mrs H has made clear, that he must not be spoken to by this service. So, I think on balance 
that BoS has fairly agreed to pay a total of £125 compensation which in the absence of any 
evidence of impact on Mr M, I have concluded is fair and reasonable. I cant fairly conclude 
Mr M suffered a financial loss and think he would have had the benefit of the withdrawn 
money.
The key part of this complaint is about the legal fees incurred by Mrs H in bringing the 
complaint on Mr Ms behalf. We can consider consequential losses incurred by a 
complainant and I appreciate Mrs H says these costs are outside of the normal costs of 
being a Financial Guardian. I asked for evidence that Mr M was responsible for the costs, for 
example in the form of an invoice, but Mrs H has provided an invoice to BoS dated 15 July 
2022. I have to be sure on balance that Mr M has lost out or suffered a loss and Im afraid I 
cant be sure in these circumstances that he has. I would have expected Mr M to have been 
invoiced for the extra legal work in 2021 but cant see that he was. Without that evidence I 
find that it would be unfair to order BoS to pay the legal fees.
Putting things right
BoS should pay a further £75 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Bank of Scotland plc to pay 
Mr M £75 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman