DRN-3593854
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is about their mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first 
direct. They are unhappy that:
1. the fixed rates on interest rate products available to them had increased in both 2019 
and 2021, when compared to that they obtained in 2017, even though Bank of England 
base rate (BBR) went down during that period; and
2. the response provided by HSBC was given in generic terms, rather than using the 
specifics of their situation.  
Mr and Mrs P have explained that due to the higher interest rate on products offered for their 
offset mortgage, it has affected their ability to make overpayments to reduce the capital 
balance. They believe that the reason the rates available to them increased was because 
HSBC has made the decision to increase the profitability of its offset mortgages.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out their mortgage with HSBC in 2009 for £200,000 over a term of 
16 years. It was arranged on an interest-only, off-set basis. This meant that any credit 
balances in bank accounts linked to the mortgage, would reduce the amount of the mortgage 
balance interest was charged on. The mortgage was to be repaid using money from a 
pension.
The mortgage initially had a two-year 2.99% fixed interest rate product attached to it. 
Subsequently, Mr and Mrs P attached new interest rate products to the mortgage 
approximately every two years. The products were either fixed rates or tracker rates. The 
interest rates attached to the products taken in 2019 and 2021 were fixed rates and each 
time the interest rate was higher than it had been on the previous fixed rate product. 
In 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr and Mrs P to enquire about their plans for repaying the mortgage. 
They didnt answer that enquiry and shortly thereafter complained to HSBC about the 
interest rate products that had been made available to them. 
On 13 November 2020 HSBC responded to the complaint. It explained that the regulatory 
capital requirements for offset mortgages were punitive and so the pricing of the products 
available to them was higher to reflect that requirement. It mentioned that due to the 
regulatory requirements, some lenders had stopped offering offset mortgages, and it 
considered that its offset interest rate products were competitively priced. 
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and HSBC explained that offset interest-only mortgages 
and standard repayment mortgages were very different products, with the former having 
benefits that outweigh the difference in interest rates. It also explained that, within the 
guidelines set by the Regulator, it was able to price its interest rate products as it chose. 
Mr and Mrs P werent happy with HSBCs answer and referred their complaint to us. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
explained that the rates made available for different mortgages were based on many factors, 
including the associated risks, and so a lender was able to price them differently. The fact 
that the rates didnt directly reflect the level of BBR didnt mean that the rate was unfair. He 
also highlighted that Mr and Mrs P had chosen to take interest rate products in 2017 and 
2019 that were not linked to BBR, unlike earlier tracker products theyd selected. He was 
also not persuaded that HSBC had acted inappropriately in the approach it had taken to 
responding to their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They asked that HSBC provide 
them with evidence that its pricing of the interest rate products it had made available to them 
was in line with the regulators guidelines, as it had said it was in its final response letter of 
21 December 2020. They also confirmed that their complaint was not about rates for offset 
mortgages being higher than those for repayment mortgages, but rather that they hadnt 
reflected the level of BBR. They said that at the time the rates had started to increase, 
commercial borrowing was lower due to BBR being at an all-time low, and so if anything the 
rates on offer should have been lower, so there was no justification for the increase in rates.
The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs P had said, but was not persuaded to change 
his conclusions. 
Mr and Mrs P maintained that they thought the increase in the interest rate products 
available to them was unfair, due to the decrease in BBR. They said that they wanted to 
know exactly the guidelines HSBC had referred to by page and section, so that they could 
check it for themselves. They asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman and 
set out the level of detail they expected the decision to include. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will firstly explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations. Were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to identify what the issues are in a complaint, 
and to decide what evidence we need in order to investigate that complaint. So although I 
have noted the questions Mr and Mrs P would like HSBC to answer, its not our role to put 
those questions to HSBC or act as Mr and Mrs Ps representative or go-between on this 
case.
Mr and Mrs Ps focus in this case is the fact that the interest rate products that have been 
made available to them since 2017 have had higher interest rates than they think they 
should. This is because BBR remained low during that period and from August 2018 
decreased, but the interest rates didnt reflect those changes; rather the margin between 
BBR and the interest rates offered, has increased.
When a lender wants to provide special fixed rates to be added to a mortgage, it will usually 
have to borrow that money itself from the money markets. This involves costs to the lender 
and, depending on what types of mortgages it intends a particular tranche of money for, the 
risks to the lender will vary. Mr and Mrs P have acknowledged that the type of mortgage they 
have would represent a higher risk than a traditional repayment mortgage. As has been 
mentioned, some of the reasons for it representing a higher risk are the fact that the balance 
will be outstanding at the end of the term, the offset facility meaning that HSBC might not 
receive any money in the form of interest if the offset funds are sufficient, and in HSBCs 
words, there are punitive capital requirements set for this mortgage type. The decision about what factors to take into account, and the assessment of those factors to 
determine the interest rate for any particular product is a matter of a lenders commercial 
judgement. Generally, it is not my role to tell a lender how it should price its products and I 
have no power to make a lender change the products it offers its customers. In addition, as 
pricing information is commercially sensitive, it is not information we would expect a lender 
to share with its customers.
Mr and Mrs P have, during the term of their mortgage, taken out both tracker and fixed 
interest rate products. The tracker products had interest rates that were linked to BBR, but 
the fixed rate ones were not. So the fact that the fixed rates didnt follow the trend in BBR 
doesnt indicate that they were inappropriate or that HSBC did anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs P were offered the same products as other customers in a similar position and it 
was their decision whether to apply for one of the options available or not. If they were 
dissatisfied with the interest rate products that HSBC was offering them, they didnt have to 
apply and had the option to seek a mortgage and alternative products elsewhere. 
I know that Mr and Mrs P wont be satisfied with my conclusions, but I dont consider that 
HSBC treated them unfairly in offering them the rates it did. 
Mr and Mrs P werent satisfied with the content of the response to their complaint. I would 
initially confirm that complaint handling is not an activity we can usually comment on. In 
addition, as I have explained above, some of the information Mr and Mrs P appear to have 
expected to be set in HSBCs response was commercially sensitive, so I wouldnt expect it to 
be provided. However, whether that was the case or not, the entire purpose of the referral 
rights to this service, is so that a consumer who is dissatisfied with the response to their 
complaint, for whatever reason, can ask us to review that complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 November 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman