DRN-3465740
The complaint
Mr C and Ms G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC incorrectly applied early repayment 
charges (ERC) when they made overpayments to their mortgage account. They ask that the 
ERC and product fee are refunded, for compensation for their distress, an apology and to be 
allowed to re-mortgage elsewhere without paying the ERC.
What happened
Mr C and Ms G have a mortgage with Barclays. In May 2020 they took out an interest rate 
product which includes an ERC. They can make overpayments of up to 10% of the balance 
each year without paying any ERC.
Mr C and Ms G checked their balance in mid-2020 and calculated they could make 
overpayments up to about £30,000 that year, and up to £25,000 the following year. 
However, Barclays applied ERCs totalling about £390. Mr C and Ms G say Barclays wrongly 
applied payments theyd made in January 2020 to their account in May 2020 and this took 
their overpayments over the ERC free allowance.
I sent a provisional decision setting out why I intended to uphold this complaint. I said 
Barclays had applied the ERC incorrectly. After Mr C and Mr G brought their complaint to us, 
Barclays refunded the incorrect ERC and adjusted Mr C and Ms Gs account. I said Barclays 
should send updated statements to Mr C and Ms G so they could see that the account was 
now correct. I said Barclays should pay compensation of £200 for the upset and 
inconvenience this matter had caused. 
Barclays agreed. Mr C agreed that the statements showed Barclays had removed the 
incorrectly applied ERC. He asked that I consider more compensation, considering the effect 
this had on them for a full year. He said theyd like a formal written apology from Barclays. 
And Mr C pointed out that Barclays hadnt sent account statements to him, despite my 
direction to do so in my provisional decision. Barclays sent statements to us, and our 
investigator sent them to Mr C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Ms G took out a fixed interest rate mortgage product which took effect on 1 May 
2020. This included an ERC of 2% of the amount repaid. However, they could make a 
capital reduction of up to 10% per annum without incurring an ERC  Ill refer to this as the 
fee free allowance.
Barclays says because the product applied from 1 May 2020, the annual fee free allowance 
is based on the balance on 1 May and runs from 1 May to 30 April the following year. It says 
the overpayment allowance was about £30,000 for the year beginning 1 May 2020 and 
about £25,000 for the year beginning 1 May 2021. I think, from hes said, that Mr C agrees 
with this.
Ive checked Mr C and Ms Gs statements and they made the following overpayments:
£1,000 paid in July 2020
£19,500 paid in January 2021
£9,100 paid in January 2021
£9,800 paid in April 2021
This totals about £39,000. Mr C says Barclays applied ERCs of £190 in January 2021 and 
£196 in April 2021, totalling about £386. Mr C says this is wrong. He says even if they 
exceeded the fee free allowance by about £9,000 an ERC of 2% should be about £180.
I agree with Mr C that the ERC was wrongly applied. Barclays made an adjustment to Mr C 
and Ms Gs account in May 2020, to re-characterise a lump sum payment of £11,000 made 
earlier in the year as a part redemption. It wrongly included this in the over payment 
allowance for the year beginning 1 May 2020, even though Mr C and Ms G had made the 
payment before this. 
When Mr C raised this with Barclays it said the ERC was correctly applied. It maintained it 
hadnt made an error when it responded to his complaint.  
At some point though it seems Barclays changed its mind about this. Barclays re-worked 
Mr C and Mrs Gs account to remove the ERC wrongly applied in January 2021 and reduce 
the ERC applied in April 2021 to £162. Barclays sent statements to show what ERC had now 
been applied. Mr C agrees this is now correct.
Putting things right
Barclays has now removed the incorrect ERC. However, theres been a lot of confusion here 
which Barclays could have avoided. It told Mr C that it was correct to include the £11,000 in 
his fee free allowance and didnt uphold his complaint about this. It didnt tell Mr C and Mrs G 
when it decided to re-work their account to remove the £11,000 from the fee free allowance 
and reverse some of the ERCs it had applied.
I think Barclays should pay compensation for the inconvenience and upset caused by this 
matter. Mr C asked for compensation of £2,000. He hasnt explained why compensation of 
this amount would be fair in the circumstances, although he has said this matter caused 
them agony and inconvenience for a year. 
Mr C says this isnt the first time hes brought a complaint about Barclays to the ombudsman, 
and he considers it to be a repeat offender. I understand what Mr C says, but Im only 
looking into this complaint. I cant take previous complaints into account when awarding 
compensation. 
Mr C asked that I require Barclays to send a formal written apology. Ive thought about this, 
but I dont think an apology which Barclays is required to provide would feel genuine. 
Ive considered how frustrating this matter must have been for Mr C and Mrs G. They had to 
contact Barclays and then us about it. Barclays declined their complaint  and then didnt tell 
them when it seems it changed its mind. On the other hand, the amount of the ERC applied 
incorrectly was about £220. This was small relative to the overpayments Mr C and Mrs G 
were making. Mr C and Mrs G havent said they were in financial difficulty. So this matter 
caused inconvenience and frustration rather than financial hardship, or worry about possible 
financial hardship or other problems such as a damaged credit score. Taking this into account, I think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the 
inconvenience this caused.
Mr C and Mrs G asked to be able to re-mortgage without paying any ERC. I explained in my 
provisional decision why I didnt think it was fair to require Barclays to allow this. However, 
once their product expires in May 2022 theyll be able to re-mortgage without paying an 
ERC, if they wish to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay £200 to 
Mr C and Mrs G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman