DRN-4079348
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as C, complains Revolut Ltd wont refund a payment it didnt 
make.
Mr C, who is a director of C, brings the complaint on Cs behalf. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons: 
Revolut hasnt disputed this concerns an unauthorised payment. However, in line 
with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund it because it 
asserts Mr C failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account 
and keep Cs personalised security details safe.
In saying this, its pointed out that Mr C shared a one-time passcode with a third party 
from a text message which said: This code will be used to add your card to another 
Apple Pay device. Dont share the code with anyone, even if they claim to be from 
Revolut. Dont enter it anywhere unless you want to add your card to a new device. 
Revolut verification code for Apple Pay: XXXXXX
Mr C accepts he shared the code. He explained he did so becuase he received a call 
from someone who claimed to be from Revolut, which he found convincing as they 
knew several pieces of personal information. He recalled they needed a code, which 
theyd send by text, to reauthorise his card. So when this came through from Revolut 
as he was told to expect, he shared the code. He doesnt recall the warning  he 
explained he was directed to share the code at the bottom right of his screen. 
Having considered these circumstances, I can see how Mr C trusted the call was 
genuine given the personal information they shared with him  I think lots of people 
wouldve done. With the benefit of hindsight, I accept Mr Cs actions are questionable 
given the warning  and of course, it was possible for him to read the message in full. 
But my consideration isnt whether Mr C did all that he could have. Instead, its 
whether he acted with a very significant degree of carelessness to conclude he failed 
with gross negligence. Here, Im mindful Mr C was acting in the heat of the moment 
with someone he was cleverly duped into trusting. And I can see how Mr C wouldve 
been further lulled into a false sense of security when the message appeared from 
Revolut when he thought he was speaking with them. Ive also considered how he 
was socially engineered by the caller into following their instructions  it seems they 
gave authoritative and pressing instructions for what to do and where to look. And 
given that the code is underlined in the message, I can see how he focused on this 
and shared it. 
Taking this all into account, while Mr C may have been careless, Im not persuaded 
Revolut has shown he failed with gross negligence. So, in line with the PSRs, I 
conclude C isnt liable for this unauthorised payment and Revolut needs to put things 
right  by refunding Cs losses from this unauthorised payment. 
Revolut ought to have refunded this much sooner. Because it didnt, Cs business 
has suffered financially. So I also award 8% simple interest per year to compensate 
C for the time its been out of pocket. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Cs complaint. Revolut Ltd must: 
Pay C the unauthorised payment, less any amount recovered or refunded. I 
understand this to be £61,960.00. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
payment to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman