DRN-3804897
The complaint
Mrs F and X complain about QIC Europe Limited (QIC) who declined their claim under their 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Following a named storm, Mrs F and X contacted QIC as there was damage caused to their 
polytunnel and various external parts of their property. QIC sent a surveyor to inspect the 
damage. QIC said that the damage to the polytunnel wasnt covered as a polytunnel wasnt 
deemed to be a permanent structure. So, the claim was declined. 
Mrs F and X complained to QIC. In its final response, QIC maintained its position, that the 
polytunnel wasnt a permanent structure and it didnt meet its definition of a building. Further, 
it said that the polytunnel would be considered contents. And as this particular content was 
outside the home (under the storm terms) it wasnt covered under the policy, the claim would 
remain declined. Finally, it said that accidental damage cover wouldnt apply as it didnt 
cover contents outside the home. 
Mrs F and X were given their referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said that the 
polytunnel had been in its location for 33 years. And had been secured by concrete and 
metal posts. His view was that the polytunnel was a permanent structure and as such could 
be defined as a building. 
He also said that a polytunnel didnt appear within the list of inclusions and was open to 
interpretation. So that the benefit of the doubt should be in favour of Mrs F and X. He 
recommended that QIC re-consider the claim under the remaining policy terms. He also said 
that QIC should pay Mrs F and X £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, due 
to the delay that occurred during the claims process. 
Mrs F and X accepted the view. QIC did not. It said that a polytunnel wasnt and couldnt be 
a permanent structure or considered to be a building, but a use of land. It said that the 
polytunnel wasnt covered under the policy and it wouldnt cover the claim. In addition, it said 
that the compensation for the delay wouldnt be paid either. So, it asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. 
And Ill explain why I think this is fair. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions to see whether QIC had dealt with the claim 
fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. And I note that it has made a number 
of detailed comments. I hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be 
taken as a discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with 
reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt 
necessary for me to respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
Mrs F and X made a claim for damage to their polytunnel following a storm. QIC declined the 
claim on the basis that the polytunnel was not and could not be considered to be a 
permanent structure. It accepted that there had been storm conditions. But it said that the 
policy terms and conditions meant that the polytunnel couldnt be defined as a building. And 
as such, it would be considered to be contents. And as the polytunnel was outside, contents 
cover didnt apply. 
QIC also relied upon case law. In that it said that due to the transient nature of the 
polytunnel, it couldnt be deemed to be a building as planning permission wasnt required. 
And for all these reasons, QIC declined the claim. 
The main issues are whether the polytunnel can be considered a permanent structure and 
whether the polytunnel meets QICs definition of a building.
QIC said that the polytunnel couldnt be considered a permanent structure and that it didnt 
meet the definition of a building as per the policy terms and conditions. And as such didnt 
require planning permission. 
Mrs F and X said that the polytunnel had been installed for around 33 years and was 
constructed out of metal which had been secured with concrete footings. They also said that 
the storm merely twisted the frame of the polytunnel, rather than moved it. So, this meant 
that the structure could be considered as permanent.
Given that the polytunnel had been in situ for around 33 years and more importantly the way 
in which it was attached to the land  namely with concrete, Im persuaded that it could 
reasonably be considered to be a permanent structure. So, Ive next looked at whether the 
polytunnel met QICs definition of a building. 
The terms and conditions define a building as: 
Buildings - Any permanent structure within the boundaries of your property. 
This includes: - The structure of your home; - Permanently installed septic tanks, cesspits 
and domestic fixed central-heating gas or oil tanks; - Drives, patios, footpaths and terraces; - 
Boundary and garden walls; - Gates, fences and hedges; - Permanently installed swimming 
pools, fixed hot tubs and their fixtures and fittings, covers, enclosures and accessories; - 
Permanently fixed, professionally installed wind turbines as long as you have told us about 
these and are following the manufacturers guidelines when using them; - Hard tennis courts; 
- Plants, trees, flowers and shrubs not in moveable pots or containers; - Radio and television 
aerials, satellite dishes, their fittings and masts; and - The underground services, inspection 
hatches and covers supplying your home which you are responsible for.
Buildings also includes the permanent fixtures and fittings in or mounted upon the buildings 
that could not easily be removed and reused, such as fixed solar panels (that have been 
professionally installed), fixed sanitary fittings (for example, toilets, sinks and baths), and 
laminated, wood effect or vinyl floor coverings. All items must belong to you, or be your legal 
responsibility, and must be used for domestic or business administration purposes. Buildings does not include: 1. Marquees and their accessories; and 2. Swimming pools, hot 
tubs, Jacuzzis and their fixtures and fittings, covers, enclosures and accessories which are 
not permanently installed.
From the definition that QIC has relied upon to decline the claim, what is of note is that there 
is no specific mention of a polytunnel. But, as the list within the terms and conditions state: 
this includes rather than this is limited to means that the list doesnt appear to be 
exhaustive and as such is open to interpretation. And as I think it is open to interpretation, 
any doubt would be in favour of Mrs Fand X . Also, there are a few items such as plants, 
shrubs, flowers, which I think are easily moved (yet are covered). Whereas the polytunnel, in 
my view is not so easily moved as it is concreted into the ground, including metal posts.
Consequently, I do think that the polytunnel can be considered to be a permanent structure 
within the boundaries of Mrs F and Xs property, that could not easily be moved or reused. 
And on a fair and reasonable basis, I think it fits within QICs broad definition of a permanent 
structure. And so, it follows that I dont agree with QICs conclusion that the polytunnel isnt a 
building either. 
QIC also said that as planning permission wasnt required for the polytunnel this meant that 
it couldnt be deemed as a building. But, having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, I 
cant see reference made in them about planning permission. Consequently, I dont think its 
fair or reasonable for QIC to rely on this point as a reason for the claim to be declined. 
Taking all of the evidence into consideration, Im persuaded that the polytunnel is a 
permanent structure and that it could reasonably be defined as a building. Accordingly, I 
think that QIC were not fair by declining the claim for those reasons. So, to be fair to both 
parties, I think it would be reasonable for QIC to reassess the claim, within the remaining 
policy terms and conditions.
I also note that there were avoidable delays during the claims process and that Mrs F and X 
said that they lost valuable growing time due to not being able to use the polytunnel. As 
such, I think QIC ought to recognise the trouble and upset that this wouldve caused to Mrs F 
and X. And for this, I recommend that QIC pay compensation of £250 to reflect this. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct QIC as below. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mrs F and Xs complaint. 
To put matters right, QIC Europe Limited to:
Reassess the claim under the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Pay Mrs F and X £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
QIC Europe Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mrs F and X accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.If QIC Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs F  and X how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs F and X a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman