DRN-2109904
The complaint
The estate of Mr L complains about Zurich Assurance Ltd. Theyre unhappy Zurich hasnt 
paid out the sum assured under his life insurance plan.
The complaint has been brought by Mr Ls daughters, Mrs L and Mrs P, the executrices of 
his estate. For ease of reference, Ill mainly refer to Mrs L.
What happened
Mr L sadly passed away in August 2019. Mrs L contacted Zurich to make a claim on his life 
insurance plan but she was informed that no payment was due as the plan had lapsed 
without value in May 2019.
Mrs L called Zurich in September 2019 to question what had happened as she said her 
father made his payments by direct debit and he wouldnt have cancelled the plan as he took 
it out to cover his funeral expenses. Zurich explained the direct debit was cancelled in May 
2019, with the last payment being received on the first of that month, and so as the missed 
payment wasnt received the plan stopped. Zurich also confirmed they wrote to Mr L to 
inform him they couldnt take the monthly premium due the direct debit being cancelled.
Mrs L remained dissatisfied and asked for this to be looked in to further. She explained her 
father had dementia and that a power of attorney had also been set up around May 2019. 
She also asked where the letter was sent, as her father had moved property and it hadnt 
been received.
Zurich didnt change their position and they wrote to Mrs L in November 2019 to explain why. 
They said they were told by Mr Ls bank on 13 May 2019 that the direct debit had been 
cancelled which meant they could no longer collect any payments. And, although theyre not 
contractually obliged to do so, they wrote to Mr L on 13 June 2019 to inform him of this. 
Zurich acknowledged that this letter had been returned undelivered  which explained why 
they didnt hear anything from Mr L  but they had no record of being informed of the 
address change (or the power of attorney being put in place). So, the plan lapsed due to the 
premium not being paid and Zurich confirmed it couldnt now be reinstated  thereby 
allowing the benefits to be paid.
Mrs L brought the matter to our service but our investigator didnt think Zurich had to do 
anything further. In short, he thought Zurich acted reasonably by writing to Mr L to inform him 
the June payment had been missed. And that, as there wasnt anything to show Zurich were 
informed of his change of address, they werent responsible for the letter not being received. 
He also added that although Zurich mentioned the possibility of the plan being reinstated in 
the September 2019 call, this wasnt guaranteed. And so, he didnt think it was unreasonable 
for Zurich to consider the request for reinstatement before ultimately declining to do so.
Mrs L disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly pass my condolences on to Mrs L and Mrs P. I realise this will be a very 
difficult time and I dont underestimate the financial impact the cost of the funeral has had on 
them. But what I must consider here is whether Zurich is required to pay out a claim as a 
result of Mr Ls passing. I know this will come as a disappointment to them but, for the 
reasons Ill explain, I dont think they do.
The terms of Mr Ls plan said:
2. The aim of the plan

When we wont pay
We wont pay a life cover claim if:
You havent made all the payments that were due
and;
5. Making payments
You must make all the payments that are due until a claim is made on the plan. 

If you dont make a payment when its due, the plan will continue providing cover for 
30 days. At the end of the 30-day period the plan will end and you wont get any of 
your payments back.
I think the above makes it sufficiently clear that the plan requires all premiums to be paid or 
cover will cease to be provided after 30 days from the last payment. And, in this case, as the 
last premium paid was on 1 May 2019 it meant the plan stopped providing cover before Mr L 
passed away.
Zurich has shown the June 2019 premium wasnt paid due to the direct debit being cancelled 
and that this was actioned by Mr Ls bank (not themselves). Mrs L says her father wouldnt 
have knowingly cancelled the direct debit as the plan was set up to cover his funeral 
expenses. But if he had cancelled it, then he wouldnt have known what hed done as he was 
suffering from dementia at the time. Ive carefully taken what Mrs L has said in to 
consideration. But while its unclear how the direct debit came to be cancelled, Ive not seen 
anything to show Zurich is responsible. So, although Im sympathetic to Mrs Ls situation, I 
dont think I can fairly conclude that Zurich is to blame for the June premium not being paid.
I understand Mrs L thinks Zurich ought to have gone to greater lengths to contact her father 
about the missed payment at the time, particularly given the importance of life insurance. But 
I think its important to explain that the responsibility of paying the premiums lies with the 
plan holder, not Zurich. And I think it was reasonable for Zurich to write to Mr L to inform him of the situation. Its unfortunate this letter wasnt received. But I dont think I can hold Zurich 
responsible for that given theres nothing to show Mr L (or someone acting on his behalf) 
informed them that hed changed address. Ive also not seen anything to show Zurich were 
made aware Mr L was suffering from dementia or that a power of attorney had been put in 
place in May 2019. Because of this, Zurich wouldve had no reason to believe it necessary to 
contact a third party about the matter. 
On a final note, Im aware Mrs L says she was informed in the September 2019 call about a 
90-day reinstatement period. The terms of the plan say:
Although your plan will have formally ended and you will therefore have no rights 
under the plan, you can ask us to reinstate cover up to 60 days after your plan 
ended. To help us consider your request, well ask you for details about your health 
and activities. If we agree to reinstate your plan, you will need to send us a cheque 
for the payments you have missed. We do not have to reinstate your plan.
I appreciate Mrs L may have been hopeful reinstatement would be possible in her fathers 
case. But I think the above clearly explains Zurich isnt obligated to do so. And it also says 
that details about the plan holders health and activities will be asked as part of the request. 
So, given Mr L had already passed away at this point this was no longer possible. I therefore 
dont think it was unreasonable for Zurich to decline Mrs Ls request for the plan to be 
reinstated. 
I realise this isnt the outcome Mrs L and Mrs P were hoping for but I dont think Zurich has 
acted unfairly, or outside the terms of the plan, by cancelling it due to the missed premium 
payment. It therefore follows that I dont think they have to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr L 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman