DRN-4172093
The complaint
Mr K complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) have unfairly applied a 
default to his account.
What happened
Mr K had a credit card account with JLFS. He said hed an unresolved complaint with them. 
But hed been harassed to make payments and without any notification a default had been 
added to his credit file. He complained to JLFS.
JLFS said they hadnt received any payments from Mr K after June 2022. They said theyd 
sent letters to him about the arrears including a default notice and final demand in January 
and February 2023. They said the letters had been sent to the address theyd on record for 
Mr K. JLFS said the default had been applied as it was an accurate record of Mt Ks account 
status.
Mr K didnt agree and referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said that JLFS had acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr K.
Mr K didnt agree he said a default couldnt be added as JLFS hadnt sent one to him. He 
asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I understand that Mr K had another complaint raised with JLFS but this was brought  
too late for us to consider. So, in reaching my decision I only need to consider Mr Ks 
complaint about a default being added to his credit file. 
JLFS has provided us with system information and call recordings regarding this complaint. 
And Ive considered Mr Ks testimony. If I dont comment on every point its because Ive 
considered in my decision what I consider to be relevant. I mean no disrespect by this.
Ive listened to a call made in June 2022 between Mr K and JLFS. In this call Mr K says he 
wants to clear the balance on his credit card account in full. And is told this is £530.26. The 
reasons for Mr K falling behind with his payments was discussed to which Mr K said he 
didnt have any financial difficulties but had needed to rearrange his finances. An attempt 
was made to discuss possible repayment plans but Mr K immediately rejected this 
suggestion. I think its explained clearly to Mr K that his card has been revoked and on his 
clearing the balance the account would be closed, and that hed have to wait several months 
before he could request a new card.
Mr K is told that his account being in arrears JLFS would put a hold on any interest fees 
being applied for 60 days. But that the status of his account would be reported to the credit 
reference agencies. Its explained to Mr K that if he didnt settle the arrears a default would 
be sent. It was also explained that a default would remain on the account for six years. As 
Mr K was told that he wouldnt be able to use the card he decided not to clear the balance in 
full. And he pays the arrears and the minimum payment for the month in total £61.10. As the 
card is revoked a new direct debit couldnt be set up and Mr K is advised to set up a 
standing order to clear the remaining balance which was around £470. Mr K confirms hed 
need to make the minimum payments each month.
During the call Mr K said he hadnt been getting his account statements. His email, mobile 
phone and address details were checked and confirmed those on record were correct. Mr K 
was told that it was his responsibility to monitor his account and that this could be done 
through the App or by direct contact. And that JLFS werent responsible for non-delivery of 
his post as they were sending correspondence to his correct address.
JLFS has shown that no further payments were made to Mr Ks account after the £61.10 in 
June 2022. And have shown collections letters were sent to Mr K including a default letter in 
January 2023 and a final demand in February 2023.
 A default is when someone fails to meet certain financial obligations under an agreement. It 
is generally when the arrears have built up to an unacceptable level. Most often this is when 
the consumer is between three and six months in arrears. I cant see that Mr K made any 
payments to his account for several months. And hed been made aware during the call that 
the balance on the card after hed made the payment of £61.10 was around £470. He was 
also aware that he needed to make at least the minimum payment each month to prevent his 
account falling into arrears. 
As outlined above itd been made clear to Mr K that late and missed payments would be 
reported to the credit reference agencies, and a default notice would be sent. I know Mr K 
says he didnt receive the letters and so doesnt agree that a default should have been 
recorded on his credit file. Ive considered whether it was fair for JLFS to apply this default 
because of this. But I think that even if Mr K had received the default letter, the situation 
would be unlikely to be different now. 
JLFS has shown that the default notice was sent by them to Mr Ks correct address, so I 
dont think its likely to be their fault if letters werent received. And If there was some 
repeated problem with Mr Ks post, which from the call he was aware of Id expect that Mr K 
would know to call JLFS to check how much his minimum payment should be. I havent seen 
anything to make me think he wasnt able to do that.
And whether Mr K received the default notice or not, I  think he ought reasonably to have 
known that his account was in default. So, I dont think its unreasonable, given the number 
of missed payments for JLFS to have taken steps to record an accurate picture of Mr Ks 
financial status to the credit reference agencies. 
And for these reasons I dont think it would be fair to ask JLFS to remove the information 
recorded on Mr Ks credit file about his account. As even if a key letter wasnt delivered to  
Mr K  I dont think that its likely to have made a difference in this case.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman