DRN-2338884
The complaint
Mr T complains that Citibank UK Limited (Citibank) deducted custody fees for his investment 
account at the wrong time and from the wrong account.
What happened
Mr T had various accounts - a GBP current account, GBP savings account, USD savings 
account and an investment account  with Citibank Europe plc, UK Branch (CEP). Under the 
terms and conditions applying to his investment account he had to pay a global custody fee 
for his investments. This was initially payable quarterly but as from the end of 2014 was paid 
monthly in arrears.
In September 2019 CEPs existing UK consumer business was transferred to Citibank, a 
new legal entity, on the same terms and conditions that existed before the transfer. The 
global custody fee for August 2019 was deducted from Mr Ts USD saver account on 12 
September 2019.
Mr T complains that the fee was debited earlier than it shouldve been. He also complains 
that the payment shouldnt have been taken from his USD savings account but shouldve 
been taken from his GBP current account or GBP savings account both of which he says 
had enough money in them.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in which I said I thought the complaint 
should be upheld. In short, I made the following findings:
I wouldnt necessarily expect there to be a specific date or period for payment of fees 
set out in the key facts document or terms and conditions but that doesnt mean there 
wasnt some agreement as to when the fees would be taken.
There was an email to Mr T which refers to fees being taken at the end of the month.
In response to me questioning Citibank about this it said that its process had been to 
deduct fees towards the end of the month for several years, but this changed when it 
moved clients to a new legal entity in September 2019.
Although there as a change to a new legal entity there was nothing to indicate it 
wasnt business as usual as far as Mr T was aware.
Citibank has not provided an explanation why notice of the change of legal entity 
wouldve made Mr T aware it was going to change the existing process for the fees 
so these would no longer be taken at the end of the month.
Mr T had a reasonable expectation that the fees would be taken at the end of the 
month and if Citibank was going to change the process it had followed for several 
years it shouldve given notice. It wasnt fair or reasonable to change the process 
without forewarning.
The fee being taken early meant it was taken from Mr Ts USD savings account 
rather than his GBP current account. If the fee had been taken towards the end of the 
month Mr T wouldve had enough in his GBP current account.
It isnt appropriate for me to tell Citibank it is limited to taking the fee towards the end 
of the month as I think it can take it at some other time if it chooses to and gives 
notice of this.
There is no reason that Mr T couldnt have transferred money from his GBP current 
account into his USD savings account. So, I dont think it is appropriate to ask 
Citibank to repay the fee taken from the USD account with interest and then take this 
from the GBP account.
The money that remained in the GBP current account wouldve earned interest.
The complaint is better dealt with by way of an award for distress and inconvenience 
and an amount of £150 is reasonable.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Citibank said it would respond by the end 
of the deadline for responding but didnt do so. It was chased for a response and said on 30 
October 2020 it would contact us the following week but didnt then do so. It has been given 
enough time to provide its response and there is no reason to delay this complaint further.
Mr T responded to the provisional decision and, although he agreed with the award of £150 
for distress and inconvenience, he wanted me to revise certain findings I had made.
 He said that interest wasnt earned on his GBP current account as I had said. He also said 
that in taking fees from the USD savings account Citibank charges foreign exchange fees for 
conversion from USD to GBP which increases the cost to the customer. He also pointed out 
that if he had transferred the money from his GBP current account to his USD savings 
account to cover the costs of the fees taken, he would also have incurred foreign exchange 
fees. 
He said that Citibank had since reversed the fees taken from the USD savings account and 
taken the fees from his GBP current account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge the points made by Mr T about interest not being payable on the GBP current 
account and the potential foreign exchange fees payable and I accept that he couldve 
ended up being out of pocket because of this as a result of what Citibank did wrong. 
I dont think it is necessary for me to comment further on this as Citibank have now reversed 
what it did and have taken the fee from the right account, so he is in the position he wouldve 
been in if it hadnt got things wrong. Mr T has also accepted the £150 I said it should pay for 
the distress and inconvenience caused and confirmed he isnt looking for any further 
redress.
Save for the clarification I have set out above my findings are as set out in my provisional 
decision. I think this complaint should be upheld for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision. Mr T was caused some distress and inconvenience as a result of what Citibank got 
wrong for which it should pay £150.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint for the reasons explained in my provisional decision and above. 
Citibank UK Limited has to pay Mr T £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman