DRN-4302924
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) unfairly
declined a claim under their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy.
For ease of reading, Ive referred to only Mr B throughout my decision.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are known to both parties, so Ive summarised whats 
happened.
In January 2023, Mr B sought cover under the property protection section of his LEI
policy because he said an enforcement agency had trespassed on his property and
threatened to seize goods from him, which he said it didnt have the authority to do.
DAS declined the claim saying the policy wasnt designed to respond to the 
possibility of a trespass and said it instead needed to be current and ongoing.
Mr B disagreed and brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it
and said he didnt think DAS had applied the policy terms fairly.
DAS responded and said as the enforcement agencys attendance at Mr Bs home 
was related to a dispute about another property there wasnt cover under the policy. 
And it referred to the following exclusion which says: we will not pay for any claim 
relating to the following [] b. any building or land other than your home.
The Investigator considered this and was persuaded the exclusion applied in the 
circumstances  so he thought DAS decision to decline the claim was fair.
Mr B disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2023, which said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont consider it fair for DAS to rely on the exclusion it has to 
decline Mr Bs claim - Ill explain why.
DAS has said that because Mr Bs legal dispute relates to another property  in so far as the
enforcement agency was only on his property because an order had been made against
him to pay an outstanding sum of money connected to another property  there isnt cover
under the policy.
But Im not persuaded by this reasoning. Whilst it can be argued that - in the broad sense 
the legal dispute is connected to another property, Mr Bs legal dispute itself is about an
alleged trespass to his home and whether the enforcement agency can lawfully enter his
property and land. And its on this point that DAS needs to seek legal advice  which it hasnt
yet done.
So, I dont think its fair for DAS to say the legal dispute relates to another property and rely 
on this exclusion to decline the claim.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited to:
Reconsider Mr and Mrs Bs claim without relying on the exclusion.
In doing so, it must seek legal advice to determine if a trespass has occurred and 
whether Mr and Mrs Bs legal claim enjoys reasonable prospects of success.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. DAS accepted it and said it would 
arrange for the legal dispute to be legally assessed in terms of cover and prospects of 
success. 
Mr B replied saying he thought my direction to DAS should be for it to accept the claim - 
subject to an independent legal opinion confirming the legal dispute enjoys reasonable 
prospects of success. His rationale being that hes concerned DAS will find another ground 
upon which to exclude his claim. 
Mr B added that the policy covers any legal nuisance or trespass and so DAS needs to 
consider both  not just whether a trespass has occurred. He also considers DAS to have 
already been provided with the opportunity to do so, and it hasnt been able to demonstrate 
that a legal nuisance or trespass hadnt occurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered both parties responses, but my final decision remains the same as that set 
out in my provisional findings. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate Mr B has concerns about DAS relying on another exclusion to decline his claim, 
but simply put, its entitled to do so. So, I wont be directing DAS to accept the claim. 
DAS has now agreed to obtain legal advice as to whether there is cover and reasonable 
prospects of success in respect of Mr Bs legal dispute and Im satisfied this is fair. In doing 
so, Id expect DAS to consider whether a nuisance or trespass has occurred as this is the 
section of the policy Mr B considers his legal dispute to fall under.
Mr B has said he wants an independent legal opinion as to whether cover and prospects of 
success exists, but Im not persuaded this is necessary. As things stood, DAS hadnt sought 
legal advice from its panel solicitors as to whether Mr Bs claim was covered  which is what 
it now needs to do. And as Ive not been provided with any evidence to persuade me that an 
independent legal opinion is required at this stage, Im satisfied DAS can rely on the legal 
advice of its panel solicitor when deciding if Mr Bs claim is covered. If Mr B is subsequently unhappy with the outcome of that review, hed need to complain to 
DAS about that in the first instance before referring the matter to this Service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Reconsider Mr and Mrs Bs claim without relying on the exclusion.
In doing so, it must seek legal advice to determine if a trespass or nuisance has 
occurred and whether Mr and Mrs Bs legal claim enjoys reasonable prospects of 
success.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman