The complaint
Mr G complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined his pet 
insurance claim and added an exclusion to the policy which it wouldnt remove. My 
references to Red Sands include its agents.
What happened
Mr G took out pet insurance for his dog on-line. The policy started in June 2018 and gave 
lifetime cover subject to the policy terms and limits so long as the policy was in force. The 
insurer was Red Sands.
In November 2018 Mr Gs dog had a lump on his left upper lip removed by the vet and Mr G 
claimed for the treatment.
Red Sands declined the claim. Mr Gs dogs vet notes said the lump had been noted in 2017, 
before the policy started. The policy didnt cover a pre-existing condition so Red Sands said 
the lump was excluded from cover. Red Sands also added three exclusions to the policy to 
take effect retrospectively from the start of the policy. But after Mr Gs vet wrote to Red 
Sands it removed two of the exclusions. The exclusion for cover on all claims with respect to 
growths and tumours and resulting conditions with effect from 10th June 2018 remained.
Mr G complained to us. He said hadnt told Red Sands about the lump when he took out the 
policy as the lump wasnt of any concern in 2017, the vet hadnt told him there was anything 
wrong. Mr G also said the remaining exclusion Red Sands had added was too wide and 
could include cancerous tumours when all his dog had removed was a sebaceous adenoma 
(a benign mass). Mr G wanted Red Sands to pay the claim and remove the specific 
exclusion relating to growths and tumours and resulting conditions.
Our investigator thought Red Sands had fairly declined the claim and it was reasonable to 
add the specific exclusion. He also noted Red Sands had told Mr G in its final response letter 
that it would not exclude cancerous tumours regardless of the specific exclusion.
Mr G then told us that while we were investigating his complaint sadly his dog had to be put 
to sleep due to cancer. Hed claimed for that treatment which Red Sands declined. It said the 
claim was a continuation of the first claim and the cancer was a pre-existing condition so not 
covered by the policy. Red Sands also told Mr G his complaint about the decline of the 
second claim would form part of our investigation about his complaint on the first claim.
Our investigator asked Red Sands to explain why it considered the cancer as pre-existing 
and why it appeared to be applying the specific exclusion to the second claim when it had 
told Mr G the exclusion wouldnt be applied to cancerous tumours. Red Sands didnt give a 
substantive response to all the issues. Our investigator recommended Red Sands disregard 
DRN-1844635the specific exclusion for the second claim, reassess the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms and pay Mr G £200 compensation for his distress.
Red Sands disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said it hadnt told Mr G it 
would cover treatment for cancer as the specific exclusion would decline any growth or 
tumour whether cancerous or benign.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold this complaint in full.I said:
I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined the first and second 
claims and retrospectively added the specific exclusion with respect to growths and tumours 
and resulting conditions, and I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
first claim
The policy is clear Red Sands doesnt cover any claim for a pre-existing condition that first 
showed clinical signs at any time before the start of the policy.
Mr Gs vet notes of 21 November 2018 say:
Mass on left upper lip, Was noticed last year but has increased in size recently  ulcerated 
needs removal.
Red Sands have relied on that note to say the lump on Mr Gs dogs lip was a pre-existing 
condition in 2017, before the policy started.
However, Mr G says there was no concern about the lump in 2017. His vet wrote to Red 
Sands saying whilst the mass was noted at the last appointment for the dogs annual 
vaccination:
it was not discussed in the clinical notes as it was not expected to be of clinical concern.
I generally say that for an insurer to fairly and reasonably apply the pre-existing condition 
exclusion the consumer must have reasonably known there was something wrong with their 
pet which could likely lead to some investigation or treatment.
Theres no evidence of any problem with the lump on the lip before the policy was taken out. 
The vet evidence is there was no concern. Im satisfied that when Mr G took out the policy 
there was no reason for him to have reasonably known the lump would need investigation or 
treatment.
So I dont think Red Sands fairly relied on the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the 
claim for the removal of the lump.
I also dont think Red Sands can fairly add, backdate and apply the exclusion for growths 
and tumours and resulting conditions.
The comparison website through which Mr G bought the policy asked him if his pet was 
currently suffering from or has your pet ever been examined or treated by a vet for anything 
other than routine vaccinations or neutering. I think Mr G reasonably didnt mention the lump 
in response to that question as theres no evidence the dog had been examined or treated 
for the lump at that time.When Mr G was transferred to the Red Sands website it didnt ask Mr G about pre-existing 
conditions or vet treatment when he bought the policy. If it had, and Mr G misrepresented 
the answers, it might be fair for Red Sands to apply exclusions retrospectively  if thats what 
it would have done had it known the true position. The law allows this in some circumstances 
where theres been a relevant misrepresentation.
But as Red Sands hasnt shown me it asked Mr G those questions there isnt an issue of 
misrepresentation. During the sales process the assumption Red Sands told Mr G it had 
made was  please note your policy will exclude any pre-existing condition. Ive explained 
above why I think Mr G could reasonably understand the lump on his dogs lip wasnt a pre-
existing condition.
Another presumption in the sales process is that Red Sands reserves the right to apply an 
exclusion in respect of any illness or conditions it subsequently learns were pre-existing at 
the start of the policy. As I dont think there was a condition that Red Sands could fairly say 
was pre-existing I dont it could fairly apply any specific exclusion in relation to the lump on 
the dogs lip.
Red Sands cant rely on the exclusion relating to growths and tumours and resulting 
conditions to decline the claim. It should remove the exclusion from the policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the above means Red Sands didnt fairly add and apply the 
exclusions for all claims with respect to skin tags, polyps and papillomas and sebaceous 
glands and resulting conditions, which Red Sands removed from the policy before Mr G 
complained to us.
Red Sands must pay Mr Gs claim for removal of the mass from his dogs lip in line with the 
remaining policy terms and limits and subject to any excess and co-payments. If Mr G has 
already paid the vet Red Sands must add interest as Ive detailed below.
second claim
Red Sands declined the claim relating to cancer saying it was continuation of the declined 
first claim.
Ive seen no vet evidence about whether the cancerous tumour which caused Mr Gs dog to 
be put to sleep was related to the benign lump on his lip. Even if it was related as I dont 
think the begin lump was a pre-existing condition when Mr G took out the policy Red Sands 
couldnt fairly and reasonably use the pre-existing condition exclusion to exclude the claim 
for cancer.
As Ive decided that Red Sands didnt fairly apply the specific exclusion to the policy for 
growths and tumours and resulting conditions it cant fairly use that exclusion to decline the 
claim relating to cancer.
Red Sands must pay the claim in relation to Mr G's dog's cancerous tumour in line with the 
remaining policy terms and limits and subject to any excess and co-payments. If Mr G has 
already paid the vet Red Sands must add interest as Ive detailed below.
There's also the issue that, contrary to what Red Sands told us, its final response letter to Mr 
G did say it wouldnt apply the specific exclusion for claims relating to growths and tumours 
and resulting conditions to any cancerous tumours. Red Sands letter says:
You queried what you were covered for, therefore we informed you of what would be 
covered alongside informing you that we had not excluded cancerous tumours.I think Red Sands gave Mr G very poor service in dealing with his second claim and 
complaint about the decline of that claim. There was no recognition by Red Sands of the 
previous reassurance about cancerous tumours it had given to Mr G. Its very poor service 
was at a time when Mr G already had the upset of his dog passing away. Red Sands must 
pay Mr G £200 compensation to acknowledge the distress it caused him by its very poor 
claim handling'.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both Red Sands and Mr G accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision Ive no reason to change my mind. 
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I uphold this 
complaint and direct that Red Sands pay both claims, plus interest and compensation as 
detailed below. 
Putting things right
Red Sands must pay:
the claim for removal of the mass from Mr G's dogs lip in line with the remaining 
policy terms and limits and subject to any excess and co-payments, and
the claim in relation to Mr G's dog's cancerous tumour in line with the remaining 
policy terms and limits and subject to any excess and co-payments, and
£200 compensation to Mr G for the distress it caused him by its very poor claim 
handling.
 
 Interest must be added as I've detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay:
the claim for removal of the mass from Mr G's dogs lip in line with the remaining 
policy terms and limits and subject to any excess and co-payments, and
the claim in relation to Mr G's dog's cancerous tumour in line with the remaining 
policy terms and limits and subject to any excess and co-payments, and
£200 compensation to Mr G for the distress it caused him by its very poor claim 
handling.
 
If Mr G has already paid the vet Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must add 
interest at 8% simple a year from the date of the payment/s to the date of settlement.
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mr G how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman