DRN-2818102
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) declined his request to have a 
coronavirus test. He says he paid for a policy which hasnt provided the level of cover he 
expected and therefore would like a refund of his premiums.
What happened
Mr D has a BUPA Global Elite private medical insurance policy. 
He contacted BUPA on 16 March 2020 to inform it of the symptoms he was experiencing. He 
thought they were similar to the coronavirus symptoms. He explained that he called NHS 
111 but was told to contact his health insurer for a coronavirus test. BUPA advised Mr D that 
private clinics werent carrying out the testing as the UK government had mandated all 
testing was to be done through the NHS. 
The advisor did say they would call other clinics within Mr Ds area to see if there were any 
private clinics providing a testing facility. They also transferred him to one of its doctors. 
Later that day, the advisor called back and said no clinics in Mr Ds area were offering tests. 
They explained that Mr D could call back if he was worried about his health. Mr D said he 
was happy with the advice from the BUPA doctor he spoke to. 
In May 2020, Mr D received an email from BUPA about his policy. This prompted him to 
make a complaint to BUPA due to it not being able to provide the testing facility in March 
2020. BUPA said at the time, in mid-March 2020, there was little it could assist Mr D with 
except provide guidance on what Mr D could have done in the situation. Coronavirus testing 
was very limited at this point in the UK. It was reserved mainly for front-line staff and for 
patients admitted to hospital. BUPA apologised to Mr D for not being able to meet his 
expectations at the time and offered him £50 compensation.
Mr D referred the complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with BUPAs response. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it. She said she thought BUPA did 
as much it possibly could at the time. Testing for coronavirus was very limited at the time 
and private clinics in the UK were only taking referrals from the NHS and, UK residents were 
being asked to contact NHS 111. She also said Mr D was advised by NHS to contact his 
health insurer and, when he spoke to BUPA, it referred him to a doctor to discuss his 
symptoms. Our investigator didnt think BUPA could have done any more at the time. 
Mr D disagreed with the investigator and has asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
Hes said coronavirus testing was available privately in London and so hes struggling to see 
how BUPA acted reasonably. It didnt fulfil its role as a private healthcare provider in 
accordance with the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue I need to decide is whether BUPA treated Mr D in a way that was not fair or 
reasonable in terms of not being able to offer the testing he requested. 
Id like to acknowledge firstly that I understand how worrying it must have been for Mr D 
when he thought he was suffering from coronavirus symptoms. So, I can see why he 
contacted BUPA as he had a private medical insurance policy with it.
NHS advice, at the time, was to stay at home if people had symptoms of a high temperature 
or a new continuous cough. If symptoms persisted and lasted longer than 7 days, had got 
worse or they couldnt cope at home, people were told to contact NHS 111.
Mr D has said he felt he had the symptoms and when he called NHS 111, he was advised to 
self-isolate. He was also advised to call his health insurance provider, which is why he called 
BUPA.
From the available information, I can see BUPA informed Mr D that they had no facility for 
testing and advice to it was that NHS were doing the testing. At the time, testing was 
predominantly being carried out on people who had been admitted to hospital or front-line 
staff. BUPA did try to find a private clinic which might have been able to provide testing for 
Mr D, but none were available in his area. In the meantime, BUPA referred Mr D to a doctor, 
and he spoke to them. Although BUPA couldnt provide the testing, Im satisfied it did do 
everything it could at the time to assist Mr D. While I appreciate this isnt what Mr D 
expected, that doesnt mean though that BUPA did anything wrong.
Mr D has said because BUPA couldnt provide the testing for him, he wanted a refund of the 
premiums he paid on his policy. Im not persuaded this is appropriate. Mr D has a policy 
which covers him for eligible treatment worldwide and those benefits continue to be available 
to him and havent been excluded. So, while the policy wasnt able to cover him for a 
coronavirus test at the time, generally, policies were unlikely to include any such terms and 
conditions because it was only declared a pandemic by the World Health Organisation 
(WHO) on 11 March 2020. 
I acknowledge Mr D comments that there were private clinics in London which were able to 
carry out the coronavirus test. Hes provided information on one such clinic. Ive considered 
this carefully and while I appreciate this was available, I can see that there was a clear 
message which confirms that approval for the testing hadnt been received from Public 
Health England (PHE) and at the time, the testing should not be considered as a 
replacement test for the NHS test. Also, while the testing may have been available, in so far 
as what BUPA could do, it did attempt to find private clinics for Mr D in his area but there 
werent any available at the time. And, although the conversation was limited because of the 
situation, Mr D did speak to one of the BUPA doctors at the time. The evidence Mr D has 
provided of the clinic that did provide testing wasnt approved by PHE, testing wasnt widely 
available through private clinics at the time and Im not persuaded BUPA could have done 
anything more. 
Having considered everything available to me, Im not persuaded that BUPA declined Mr Ds 
request for a coronavirus test inappropriately. Im also not persuaded BUPA treated Mr D 
unfairly or unreasonably. As such, I dont think BUPA needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against BUPA Insurance 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman