DRN-2645865
The complaint
Mrs C has complained to us about her home insurer Fairmead Insurance Limited as it has 
declined her claim made after she found water damage in her spare bedroom.
What happened
Mrs C was at home one day when she noted her neighbour was jet washing their path. The 
path and patio, along with an outside toilet had been installed against the external wall of 
Mrs Cs detached home. Mrs C noted the carpet in the spare bedroom on the inside of that 
external wall had become wet. She called her insurer. 
Mrs C was asked to provide a cause of damage report. She obtained an estimate for repairs 
and sent this to the insurer. The insurer said this referred to rising damp which the policy did 
not cover. It also said that Mrs C did not have accidental damage cover for her contents 
items. The claim was declined. 
Mrs C said the problem had arisen because, that day, when she was home, the neighbour 
had jet washed the air vents of her property causing water to flood into the spare room. She 
provided a further report but the insurer was not minded to change its decision to decline her 
claim. Mrs C complained to us.
Our investigator felt that a flood had occurred at Mrs Cs property. She said the insurer 
should accept the claim for buildings and contents damage, particularly as Mrs C couldnt 
have known about damage which had been occurring below the floor. She recommended 
that compensation was also paid. 
The insurer disagreed with the findings. It challenged the idea that this should be classed as 
a flood. In response to our investigators finding, Mrs C indicated she was pleased that the 
claim outcome would change, but she said £200 was not enough as shed been through a lot 
with her neighbour as a result of the insurer not stepping in to assist. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide. I felt the damage at Mrs Cs home likely wasnt 
covered by the policy. I issued some provisional findings explaining my view that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. I said:
Having done so, and with regret for the upset I know this will cause Mrs C, Im not 
persuaded her claim should be upheld. Ill explain.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it were then 
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the 
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, storm, flood, escape of water, accidental 
damage etc.  is covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming 
for is caused by one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the 
insurer can rely on one of the policy exclusions to defeat it. The two events relevant here are 
flood and accidental damage.
I havent seen any sign of a flood occurring at Mrs Cs property. Whilst photos show that the 
carpet and sub-floor are wet, there is no sign that a body of water was present in Mrs Cs 
home. Not such that built up gradually over time because of the altered ground conditions 
outside (which were beyond Mrs Cs control), or because of a one-off event caused by the 
jet washing. Whether or not Mrs C knew what was going on below the floor, without even so 
much as a puddle of water, I cant reasonably find that a flood occurred. 
Mrs C had cover for accidental damage as part of her buildings cover, but not for her 
contents items. Whilst terms and exclusions for accidental damage vary between policies, its 
fair to say that, generally, accidental damage cover applies to damage that happens by 
chance and occurs on one occasion. Ive considered then, whether the insurer should have 
accepted a claim under the accidental damage cover for buildings.
I dont find the first report provided by Mrs C to be particularly persuasive. This seems to 
mainly be talking in general terms about rising damp. But the photos that appear to be 
attached to it do suggest damage has been occurring at Mrs Cs property for some time. For 
example, rotten floor timbers. And even some gradual damage which is visible within the 
room in its normal state, such as salt deposits on the walls. 
Mrs Cs second report is more specific. It concludes that the current damp proofing for 
Mrs Cs property is not working effectively. It notes other inherent issues with the 
construction of the property also need resolving  such as the ventilation. I appreciate that 
issues like the ventilation have been affected by the work the neighbour did. But a lack of 
ventilation causes problems over the long-term, such as damp below the floor. A one-off 
incident of hosing would not cause rot and damp, nor salt deposits to form on the walls. 
So Im not persuaded that the buildings damage suffered at Mrs Cs home can reasonably 
be classed as accidental damage. It seems to me that the insurers decline of this part of 
Mrs Cs claim was fair and reasonable. 
 
I do think the carpet may have been damaged during this one incident with the hose. It is not 
showing as being mouldy on the reverse, which is what I would expect to see if it had been 
affected by the on-going damp problems manifesting below the floor and on the wall.
Unfortunately for Mrs C, the insurers decline of the part of the claim for contents items is fair 
and reasonable because there was no flood and there is no cover for accidental damage on 
the policy for contents items. 
I know this has been a difficult and stressful time for Mrs C. However, as I said above, 
insurance policies are not designed to offer cover for every type of damage or situation that 
might occur at a property. And here, even if the insurer had felt able to assist under the 
policy, I cant see that would have alleviated the tension that has arisen between Mrs C and 
her neighbour. 
Mrs C, understandably, was disappointed with my findings. In summary she said:
There was a lot of water which came in causing a flood.
Fairmead didnt even attend to look at what had happened, if it had it would have seen 
clearly there had been a flood.
Her surveyors report which used the word flood had been dismissed.
She did have contents cover and there was no mould on the carpet, as shown by photos.
Following involvement from the water authority, the neighbours insurers were persuaded 
to pay for or towards drains being installed.
Fairmead should have involved itself with the neighbours insurer, if it had this could 
have been sorted sooner and with less stress for Mrs C.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry my findings have upset Mrs C. With regret for the further upset I know this will 
cause her, whilst Ive considered her points made in reply to my provisional decision, my 
view on her complaint has not changed. 
I understand that a lot of water came in on the day of the incident. And I dont doubt that 
Mrs C considers that was a flood. But as I explained in my provisional decision, for there to 
be a flood in insurance terms there has to be a body of water which causes damage. Here, 
whilst the carpet was soaked, Ive seen nothing that makes me think there was standing 
water. And the damage to the timbers and salt deposits on the walls would not have been 
caused by a one-off instance of a short-term flood.
An insurer doesnt have to attend to inspect all instances of damage reported to it. If it feels 
there is no cover, or the cause of damage hasnt been established by the policyholder such 
as to suggest the policy should likely respond, it usually wont do so. Further, even if it thinks 
the cause has been established and/or there might be cover, it wont always feel it is 
necessary to assess the damage itself. I dont think Fairmead acted unfairly here.
Mrs Cs surveyor referred to the reported flooding of Mrs Cs property. He did say he found 
water was pooled on the neighbours patio slabs outside of Mrs Cs property. But I note he 
attended months after the loss and didnt make any finding of his own that there had been a 
flood in Mrs Cs property. Regarding her property he found issues with the damp proof 
course and other internal or external defects which were in his view a further source of 
moisture penetration.
I said provisionally that there was no mould on the carpet. As there was no flood the soaked 
carpet could only be covered by accidental damage. Whilst Mrs C has cover for contents 
items, accidental damage is an optional extra. The policy schedule Mrs C provided to this 
service shows that cover for accidental damage to contents was not selected.
Im glad Mrs Cs situation has improved somewhat with the installation of drains at the 
neighbours property. I understand why Mrs C thinks Fairmead could have assisted with this. 
But one insurer cant reasonably just ring another and ask it to complete works, not when 
there is no valid damage claim under the policy. 
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Fairmead Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman