DRN-4522779
The complaint
Ms O complains about the way that two members of staff at a branch of Santander UK Plc 
treated her when she wanted to make a cash withdrawal. She also complains about the way 
her complaint was dealt with.
What happened
In March 2023 Ms O went into her local branch of Santander to make a cash withdrawal. 
She showed the adviser her phone, on which was displayed the amount she wanted to 
withdraw. She says the adviser refused to serve her and asked the manager to serve her. 
She then went to a different adviser who also refused to serve her. She says they shouted at 
her and were rude to her. She was eventually able to complete her withdrawal.
She made a complaint to Santander and spoke to a complaints handler, who she says was 
also rude to her and said that referring to the Ombudsman would not make any difference. 
Santander says it tried to contact Ms O but was unable to speak to her. It sent her a final 
response letter indicating that the matter had been passed onto the branch for them to 
review and carry out an internal investigation. It said that all care was taken when dealing 
with a customer who requests a large withdrawal under its scam prevention policy, which 
can lead to some difficult conversations and decisions. It noted that she was able to carry 
out the withdrawal.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Santander said the branch had no record 
of the incident and the staff didn't recall the event as it happened eight months previously. 
Also members of staff have left. It also said that it had no recordings of telephone calls with 
Ms O about the incident.
Our Investigator said that in the absence of persuasive evidence from either side he was 
unable to say whether there had been a failing or an error on Santander 's part.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Santander had not handled Ms Os complaint 
very well and that it should pay £50 compensation.
Neither Ms O nor Santander responded substantively to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below, in italics:
On reviewing such evidence as there is of the complaint from Santander's notes, I can see 
that it attempted to call Ms O on 15 March 2023 and got no response. Its adviser called 
again on 16 March when Ms O said she was busy and asked for a call back. The adviser 
called back later but got no response. This was followed by the final response letter which 
I've mentioned above.
Santander advises that it has no call recording (nor, it would appear any note) of Ms Os 
complaint. It's not obliged to record calls but I think it usually does, as the notes mention a 
former complaint on another matter by Ms O where the calls were recorded. 
I think that, having told Ms O that the matter had been referred to the branch to carry out an 
investigation, Santander should have told her the results of that investigation. When our 
investigator raised the matter with Santander, it said that its staff could not recall the incident 
as by then it had happened some eight months previously and staff had left. This leads me 
to believe that either Santander did not refer the matter back to the branch or that the branch 
failed to carry out any sort of investigation.
Whilst I note that Ms O was able to carry out her withdrawal, if the matter had been looked at 
by the branch when it was referred to it, the staff would more likely have been able to recall 
the incident and a proper response could have been given to Ms O.
So I don't think that Santander handled Ms Os complaint very well. I can't do anything about 
requiring it to carry out an investigation now that the staff cant recall the incident and/or 
have left. But I think it should pay Ms O £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her by the way it handled her complaint.
As neither party has responded substantively to my provisional findings, I remain persuaded 
by those findings. They are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Santander should pay Ms O £50. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Santander UK PLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman