DRN-1158421
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Miss C says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 1996 Miss C took out PPI at the same time as taking out a high street store card. Both the 
card and the PPI were taken out in-store.
The policy provided protection for Miss Cs store card payments in the event she 
couldn't work because of accident, sickness or if she was made unemployed. It offered to 
repay 15% of the account balance a month upon successful claim and it would do so until 
Miss C returned to work, or the balance was repaid  whichever happened first. It cost no 
more than £1.00 for every £100 Miss C owed on the card.
At the time Miss C was employed and in submitting her complaint she said she had sick pay 
of less than three months and no other means to make her card repayments. Later on she 
said she had 12 months or more sick pay and had help from friends and family equivalent to 
12 months pay. She said she was in good health at the time of the sale.
AXAs records show Miss C paid just over £40 in total for PPI.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. They said Miss C chose to take out PPI and 
there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Miss C, through her representative disagrees so the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant her in deciding Miss Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss C's complaint because:
I think AXA made it clear that Miss C didn't have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant now remember this.
This was a sale in a store. AXA has provided a copy of Miss Cs store card application 
and agreement. And here I can see there was a separate section for PPI headed: 
Protection For Your Payments & Your Purchases where next to the statement: Yes, I 
want my account covered by PPI... Miss C ticked the box to take out the policy.AXA didn't recommend the PPI to Miss C  Ive not seen anything to show me that it 
did - so it didn't have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss 
C got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
 
I accept its possible the information AXA gave Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. For example other than a brief outline of what the PPI covered, 
the store card application didn't say anything about the significant exclusions on or 
limits to the cover. And I cant see the information about the cost was made clear. But 
she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesn't look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
This means I find Miss C hasn't lost out as a result of having PPI with her store card, so AXA 
doesnt have to pay back to Miss C what she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Miss C has said - including what she said initially about being 
told that she had to have PPI to get her staff member discount; that she now says she 
doesnt remember ticking anything extra on her card application; that it didn't serve her any 
purpose because she got pregnant shortly afterwards; and what shes latterly said about her 
sick pay and other means being worth more than 12 months of her pay. But these points 
dont change my decision.
Im mindful that Miss Cs testimony about what happened has changed. And while this isnt 
necessarily surprising given how long ago the sale happened, I dont think I can place much 
weight on what she says happened at the time.
In relation to Miss Cs original testimony about having to have PPI to get a staff discount  as 
the adjudicator told Miss C, her account was not a staff account. And Ive seen nothing to 
support what she said about being told she had to have PPI.
As I said above, Miss Cs application shows she ticked a box to take out PPI, so I think she 
agreed to take it out.
Miss C has said the PPI didn't serve her any purpose because shortly afterwards she got 
pregnant. While Miss C has not defined shortly afterwards Im mindful that AXA 
didn't provide advice to Miss C - so it didn't have to understand her demands needs and 
circumstances at the time to assess the policys suitability.  It was for Miss C to decide that. 
And it was also for Miss C to decide whether a change in her circumstances after the sale 
might affect whether the policy was right for her. And she couldve cancelled the policy 
without penalty if she did decide it was no longer of benefit to her. 
In relation to Miss Cs sick pay and other means  Im not persuaded what shes most 
recently said. Given Miss Cs occupation at the time, and in my experience I think what she 
said when she first submitted her complaint most likely reflects what she had at the time. 
And I think the same for her other means.
In any event the policys monthly benefit was 15% and it had the potential to repay Miss Cs 
outstanding account balance in full. So I dont think Miss C wouldve likely acted differently 
and declined the PPI had AXA done anything more. My final decision
For the reasons above, I've decided not to uphold Miss C's complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman