DRN-3125452
The complaint
Mr S complains about Allay Claims Ltd and the way they chased him for payment of their 
settlement fee when he hadnt received his refund from the lenders.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr S instructed Allay to pursue claims for mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) against Lender N on his behalf. Allay submitted several claims and four of 
these were upheld. Three were upheld in October 2019 and the fourth in July 2020. So, Allay 
proceeded to invoice Mr S for their settlement fees. 
But there was a delay in Mr S receiving the PPI refunds from lender N. So, Mr S didnt have 
access to the refunds when he received the invoices and because of this, he didnt pay the 
invoices straight away. But Allay continued to chase Mr S for payment and in January 2020, 
sent Mr S a payment demand. Mr S was unhappy with this and he called Allay to complain.
Mr S didnt think it was reasonable for Allay to send him demands for payment when he 
hadnt received a refund from lender N. So, he wanted Allay to provide him with a formal 
written apology before he paid their fee. Initially, Allay explained the demands had been sent 
through their automated process but offered a verbal apology for any distress he was 
caused.. But they explained if Mr S remained unhappy with this, hed need to email them to 
complaint.
Mr S was unhappy at the need to do this. And Mr S was also unhappy at the service hed 
received on the calls he made. So, Mr S thought the fees Allay were charging were too high 
for the service he received. So, he wanted the fees to be reduced to recognise this as well 
as an apology. Allay didnt think theyd done anything wrong and thought their full fees 
remained payable. So, Mr S referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She explained our service is 
unable to consider Mr S complaint about Allays complaint handling as its an unregulated 
activity. But she did consider the service Mr S received and the way Allay chased him for 
payment. And having done so, she didnt think Allay had acted unfairly and the fees they 
charged fell in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement. So, she didnt think Allay 
needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree and maintained his view that Allays automated processes were 
unreasonable and needed to be changed. Because of this, he maintained his view that their 
invoices were too high and felt they should be reduced. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr S. I recognise that at the 
time he received a payment demand from Allay, he hadnt received the funds from lender N. 
So, I can understand why he thinks this communication from Allay was unfair and 
unwarranted. And I appreciate Mr S has spoken to Allay on several occasions about this and 
hasnt always been satisfied with the service hes received. So, I can appreciate why Mr N 
may question the outstanding fees and the value of them against the service thats been 
provided.
But for me to say Allay have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied theyve failed to 
act in line with their terms and conditions when calculating, invoicing, and chasing Mr S for 
their fee. And if I think they have acted in line with these, Id need to be satisfied the service 
they provided was unfair due to an error they made or could reasonably control. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I want to make it clear exactly what Ive been 
able to consider. A large part of Mr S complaint relates to Allays complaints handling 
process. Unfortunately, Ive been unable to consider this aspect of Mr S complaint as 
complaint handling is an unregulated activity and falls outside of our services jurisdiction. So, 
I wont be commenting on that any further.
But I am aware our investigator commented on the calls held between Mr S and Allay when 
he attempted to query the demands and raise a complaint. And I think this point can be 
considered as I think this issue falls under the general service Mr S received. Im aware Mr S 
says agents hung up on his unfairly. And I can see calls were terminated on two occasions 
and Ive listened to them both. In the first call, I was unable to determine who terminated the 
call. And Allays call notes state it was Mr S who did so, which Mr S disputes. I think its clear 
the call ended early but as Im unable to say for certain why it did, I dont think itd be fair for 
me to say Allay acted unfairly because of this.
And for the second call, Allay did terminate the call. But Ive heard the handler explain to Mr 
S why she did so. And although I understand why Mr S would be unhappy, I dont think this 
was unfair as I think the conversation had become repetitive and there didnt seem to be a 
way forward. So, I dont think I can say Allay acted unfairly on these calls and because of 
this, I dont think they need to do anything more regarding them. Ive then turned to Mr S 
concerns regarding the fees Allay have charged and how they chased for payment.
It's not in dispute that Mr S instructed Allay to submit claims on his behalf. And it isnt 
disputed that the refunds Mr S eventually received arose from the work Allay completed. So, 
I think Allay are able to invoice Mr S for their settlement, in line with the terms and conditions 
of the agreement Mr S accepted.
Mr S doesnt think the fees Allay have charged are fair due to the upset hes been caused 
when Allay have chased him for payment. So, he thinks the fees should be reduced. But 
these terms and conditions explain clearly that the agreement is no win no fee agreement. 
So, Allays fee is a fixed percentage of the refund Mr S receives and isnt based on the 
amount of work Allay complete or the quality of the service they provide. So, I dont think the 
way Allay chased Mr S for their fees impacts the validity of the invoices. And as Allays fees 
fall in line with the charging structure set out within these terms, I dont think I can say Allay 
have acted unfairly and I think they remain payable. 
But I have still considered the way Allay chased Mr S for payment of their fees as Im still able to direct Allay to compensate Mr S for any upset and inconvenience hes been caused, 
if I think theyve made an error.
And I have seen that Allay issued demands for payment when Mr S hadnt yet received his 
PPI refund from lender N. So, I do understand why Mr S would be both worried and upset by 
this. And I dont think its wrong for Mr S to question why this happened. But crucially, I dont 
think these demands mean Allay acted unfairly on this occasion.
Ive seen lender Ns win letters offering Mr S a PPI refund. And these explain that lender N 
would endeavour to make payment to Mr S within 28 days of receiving an acceptance form. 
And I can see Allays collection process takes this into account, as any payment chasers and 
demands they sent were issued after this time period had elapsed. So, I dont think itd be 
fair for me to say Allay acted unfairly as I dont think they couldve pre-empted lender Ns 
delay in making payments, nor could they control it.
Allay have confirmed in January 2020, the same month they issued the payment demands to 
Mr S, they were made aware of industry delays for businesses such as lender N to pay 
customers their refunds. And because of this, they placed a hold on further payment chasers 
for a month. And I can see this was honoured. And by the time this hold has elapsed, Mr S 
had received two of the three refunds offered in October 2019. So, I think Allay were fair to 
restart collection activity at this point. 
So, because of the above, I dont think it would be fair for me to hold Allay responsible for 
the upset Mr S was caused by their payment demand as I dont think they couldve been 
reasonably aware that Mr S hadnt received payment. And so, I dont think they need to do 
anything more on this occasion.
Im aware Mr S has also stated hes unhappy that the first letter he received from Allay was a 
payment demand and that this wasnt commented on by our investigator. But Ive seen that 
for all the successful claims, Allay issued Mr S with a win letter and an invoice before any 
demands were sent. Im aware Mr S is disputing these were received but I can see they 
were sent to the correct address and the same address the demands were sent to. So, Im 
unable to say Allay did anything wrong for this point as well.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. But I hope it goes some way to 
explaining why I dont think Allay acted unfairly and brings some closure Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint about Allay Claims Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman