DRN-2630962
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) declined his claim for 
damage to his laminate floor. 
What happened
Mr R had contents insurance with RSA. He had buildings cover with another insurer. 
Mr R suffered an escape of water which damaged his laminate flooring. He claimed under 
his contents policy with RSA, but it said he should claim under his buildings policy. Mr R 
followed its advice and claimed under his buildings policy, but the insurer said laminate 
flooring should be covered under contents insurance. He complained to RSA because he 
thought it shouldve accepted his claim under his contents policy.
RSA issued a final response, stating that it was industry practice to cover laminate flooring 
under buildings insurance as its considered to be a fixture and fitting. Mr R didnt agree.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair that RSA declined Mr Rs claim. He explained that the 
laminate floor wasnt permanently attached, and it could be removed without damaging the 
structure of the building. Therefore, our investigator thought the claim fell under the contents 
policy. He said RSA should consider it under the contents policy and, if the claim is covered 
and Mr R has already completed the work, RSA should pay 8% simple interest. 
RSA didnt agree. It repeated that market practice is to consider laminate flooring under 
buildings insurance because it forms part of the structure of the building and its difficult to 
remove without causing damage. RSA said the purpose of laminate is as a floor, not a floor 
covering. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain.
Its likely that the damage Mr R claimed for is covered under one of his policies. The issue is 
whether it was fair for RSA to decline his claim under his contents insurance and refer him to 
the buildings insurer. 
I understand that it isnt as clear as it could be to identify whether laminate flooring falls 
under buildings or contents insurance, so Ive looked at Mr Rs policy with RSA to see 
whether it offers any clarity. 
Although Mr R doesnt have buildings insurance with RSA, Ive looked at this part of the 
policy as well as the contents section to see whether the laminate flooring wouldve been 
covered under buildings. The policy defines buildings as:
Buildings
The home, fixtures and fittings, patios, terraces, footpaths, tennis courts, drives, walls, 
swimming pools, fences, gates and hedges.
And contents as:
Contents
Household goods, high risk items, personal belongings, business equipment and money all 
owned by or the legal responsibility of any of your family.
Visitors personal belongings in your home.
Fixtures and fittings which your family are responsible for as occupier and not
owner of the buildings including aerials.
The most we will pay for any one claim for high risk items, business equipment, money and 
visitors personal belongings is the limit shown on your schedule.
Contents does not include the following:
motorised or mechanically propelled or assisted vehicles including childrens vehicles 
whether licenced for use on public roads or not (other than garden machinery and 
motorised or electric wheelchairs), boats, sailboards, surfboards, jet skis and other 
similar items which are water-borne, aircraft, gliders and hang gliders, caravans, 
trailers or any parts or accessories for any of these items;
fixtures and fittings other than as occupier and not owner of the buildings;
credit cards;
animals;
anything used for any trade, professional or business purposes other than business 
equipment.
Unfortunately, the policy is silent on laminate or any type of floor covering, so I can see why 
Mr R made an assumption based on his understanding of his contents cover.
RSA says that laminate is the floor, not a floor covering, therefore its part of the structure of 
the building. I dont agree. Laminate is laid on top of an existing floor  whether that is 
concrete or floorboards  for aesthetic reasons. If the laminate is removed, the floor is still 
there and can be covered with an alternative flooring to suit personal preference. I dont think 
that describes a structural part of a building.
Mr Rs laminate was kept in place under a strip of beading held by sealant. The laminate 
itself was joined together using the click system, which can also be taken apart. It was not 
stuck down to the floor, so it wasnt a permanent fixture.
I accept that it might be unusual for a home owner to remove their laminate flooring if they 
move to a new house. But I dont think carpets are usually removed either. Carpets are floor 
coverings insured under a contents policy, and I cant see any significant difference between 
the two types of floor covering which would lead me to think that laminate flooring should be 
covered under a buildings policy.   
 
In summary, Im satisfied that RSA shouldve considered Mr Rs claim for his damaged 
laminate flooring under his contents policy. If Mr R has already paid for repairs to his floor, 
and the claim is covered, RSA should pay him 8% simple interest from the date of repair to 
the date of settlement.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc 
should:
consider Mr Rs claim for the damage to his laminate flooring in line with the policy 
wording, and
if the claim is covered and Mr R has already carried out the repairs, add 8% simple 
interest* per annum from the point Mr R had the repairs carried out to the point of 
settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
*If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr R a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman