DRN-3470120
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Shop Direct Finance Company, trading as Very (Shop Direct), lent to 
her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs T applied for credit with Shop Direct on 10 April 2010. The catalogue shopping account 
was opened with a credit limit of £150. Over the period from June 2011 to November 2015 
Mrs Ts credit limit was increased a total of 15 times, with the highest limit being £4,700.
Mrs T says that she struggled with the repayments. She intimates that she was in financial 
difficulty and asks Shop Direct refund her the interest on her payments. 
Shop Direct accepted that it shouldnt have increased Mrs Ts credit limit in August 2012 and 
beyond, but it didnt offer any compensation because Mrs T hadnt ever exceeded the limit 
that was in place before this time. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint. He didnt think Shop Direct had done 
anything wrong in its lending decisions and he agreed that Shop Direct didnt need to pay 
any compensation in relation to the interest and fees charged after August 2012.
Mrs T disagreed. As Mrs T did not agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mrs Ts complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Shop 
Direct acted unfairly and lent to Mrs T irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs T 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Mrs Ts borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Shop Direct has provided a list of the checks it completed when opening Mrs Ts account. It 
says these show that it was reasonable to lend to Mrs T in the way that it did.
I can see from this list that Shop Direct saw that Mrs T had missed some repayments on 
other credit in the preceding two years but it also showed that Mrs T hadnt ever defaulted, 
was up to date with all her repayments and had no other credit open at the time. 
Based on this a credit limit of £300 appeared affordable and Mrs T didnt appear to be 
overindebted. Overall, Im satisfied that the checks Shop Direct completed were reasonable 
and proportionate in the circumstances and it didnt make an unfair lending decision here.
Shop Direct increased Mrs Ts credit limit twice between June and October 2011. In October 
it was £900. I think it would have been reasonable for Shop Direct to have made enquiries 
about Mrs Ts income and expenditure when it made these increases to make sure Mrs T 
could manage the repayments in an affordable and sustainable way. I dont have information 
from Mrs T about these matters so I cant say for sure what Shop Direct would have seen. 
But Mrs T was managing her account well and so I dont think Shop Direct shouldnt have 
increased her limit at this point.
Between January and April 2012 Shop Direct once again increased Mrs Ts credit limit: first 
to £1,000 and then to £1,300. I think Shop Direct should have verified information about Mrs 
Ts income and expenditure at this point. And it should have looked at her overall financial 
position to make sure she could afford the repayments in an affordable and sustainable way.
We asked Mrs T to provide information about her circumstances at this time. She was not 
able to provide any bank statements or proof of income. She did provide some screenshots 
of parts of her credit file but other than a single month of arrears in October 2012 they didnt 
show anything that would have been of concern. So, even if Shop Direct had asked Mrs T 
about her financial circumstances I dont think it would have made a difference to its lending 
decisions.
On balance, I dont think Mrs T lost out as a result of anything Shop Direct did wrong. 
Mrs T also complains that Shop Direct wasnt helpful when she was struggling with her 
payments. But I havent seen any evidence that Mrs T contacted Shop Direct to tell it she 
was struggling. As she was generally making the repayments (and often overpaying the 
minimum repayment) I dont think Shop Direct needed to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint. It follows that Shop 
Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, does not have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman