DRN-2151899
The complaint
Mr H complains that he received defaults on his credit file which wouldnt be there had he 
not called MBNA Limited (MBNA) to request a temporary arrangement to pay due to 
financial difficulties. He says he was told hed be given notice before the accounts were put 
in default and to ignore the letters and that he could make whatever payment he was able to 
on the account. Mr H wants the defaults removed, a letter of apology and compensation.
What happened
Mr H says that MBNA agreed to change the payment dates of his two credit cards on 1 May 
2019. He contacted it on 9 May requesting a short-term arrangement to make reduced 
payments as he was aware that he was about to experience temporary financial difficulties. 
MBNA wouldnt make a formal agreement but agreed to freeze interest and accept him 
making payments on the account, which he did. On 10 May MBNA wrote a letter informing 
that the account was being passed to its recoveries team as agreed for both accounts. Mr H 
says this was not agreed at any point. 
Mr H says that he received a default notice on 17 May for account 5814 demanding payment 
by 4 June. He says this was the old payment date and not the formally agreed payment date 
of 15-18th. On 24 May Mr H received a default notice for account 1102 demanding payment 
by 11 June. He says this was despite a formal agreement that the payment date would 
change to 20-25th. On 4 June he received a final demand letter for account 5814 indicating it 
was now two months in arrears and requesting payment as soon as possible but Mr H says 
the amount wasnt due until 15-18th. 
On 11 June he received a final demand for account 1102 indicating it was two months in 
arrears but he says this payment wasnt due until 20-25th. Mr H says MBNA then defaulted 
the two accounts (1102 on 18 July and 5814 on 26 July) despite him sticking to the 
agreement and that the default was based on the old payment dates and not the new ones 
which were agreed. 
Mr H says he was told hed be given notice before the accounts were put in default and to 
ignore the letters and that he could make whatever payment he was able to on the account. 
He says MBNA falsely reported three months arrears for both accounts. Mr H complains that 
MBNA then passed the debt to a third party despite saying theyd only do this if he didnt 
make an arrangement with them. He says that he was able to make arrangements with other 
companies  all of which have now ceased and are the accounts are back to normal status. 
MBNA says that Mr H called it on 9 May 2019 to provide it with details of his income and 
expenditure. As a result of this it reduced his interest rate to 0% and waived future fees and 
interest on both of his accounts. During the call it says Mr H was told that letters would 
continue to be sent and that when they became three to four payments in arrears a notice of 
default would be sent. He was also made aware that one of his accounts would show as two 
months in arrears as the statement was due to be printed the following day.
MBNA sent a notice of default in respect of each account requesting payment as per the 
dates set out above. However, it says that as Mr H was in financial difficulties, it would not 
have expected him to make these payments. As the payments were not received a final 
demand letter was sent on each account asking him to repay as soon as possible. No such 
payments were received and the accounts were defaulted. The debts were subsequently 
both sold to a third party as of 19 August.
MBNA says that it is satisfied that it has not made an error by defaulting the accounts and is 
therefore unable to remove the defaults from his credit file. However, it did give Mr H £50 for 
distress and inconvenience due to a delay in sending him a copy of the call recording from 9 
May which he had requested. I havent considered this aspect as its not something Mr H 
has complained to this service about; his complaint is only in respect of the defaults. 
Our investigator looked at the case and concluded that MBNA wasnt at fault for Mr Hs 
accounts defaulting. He found that the account defaulted as Mr H was unable to meet the 
contractual repayments and his credit file was updated to accurately reflect this. The 
investigator also found that MBNA had offered Mr H support and was sympathetic to his 
circumstances when made aware of his financial difficulties. So he didnt identify that MBNA 
had made any errors or treated Mr H unfairly.
Mr H disagrees so the case has come to me to make a decision. Mr H says that he was told 
he could make payments to the account but that the next day recovery action was started. 
Mr H says that MBNA agreed to change the payment dates but the defaults were not on the 
dates agreed and are therefore incorrect on his credit file. He also says that he was advised 
upon the accounts defaulting that he could create a payment plan, otherwise the debt would 
be sold. But MBNA refused to do this and just sold the debt to a third party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the evidence I share the investigators view for broadly the same reasons. 
Ill explain why.
Ive listened to Mr Hs conversation with MBNA on 9 May. The advisor explained that whilst 
the account was in arrears, this would be reflected in Mr Hs credit file until it was brought up 
to date and that it would eventually default if it was not brought up to date. Mr H was told that 
he could continue to make payments as and when he was able, which would come off the 
balance owed. However, he was also told that the minimum payment needed to be made to 
stop the accounts going further into arrears and that the account would eventually default 
and the whole balance would become due if this wasnt done. 
The advisor told Mr H that he would receive a notice of default and then a final demand letter 
so the account wouldnt default without him knowing. The advisor said that if Mr H got a 
notice of default he could get in contact and discuss other options. At no point during this call 
did the advisor tell Mr H to ignore the letters. 
As Mr H was unable to meet the minimum payment on the accounts, MBNA was entitled to 
continue with its usual collections and recoveries process and treat the account as being in 
default once it was sufficiently in arrears. Im satisfied that the process was explained to Mr 
H during the call that this would be what would happen and that the debt would then all 
become payable and would eventually become sold on. Whilst Mr H understandably made it 
clear he didnt want this to happen, I dont think that MBNA have done anything wrong by 
following its usual procedures.MBNA was required to give Mr H notice of default before it terminated the agreement or 
demanded the full balance on his accounts. I can see that Mr H was given notice about the 
accounts going into default by way of a notice of default and then a final demand on each 
account. As the payments remained outstanding the accounts then went into default. I cant 
say that MBNA have done anything wrong in respect of defaulting Mr Hs accounts or that it 
gave him the wrong information in relation to this. 
Mr H says that both accounts were showing as three months in arrears in August but 
believes that they were only one month in arrears at the time the debts were sold to a third 
party and it would be highly unusual for an account to be defaulted due to being one 
payment in arrears. Whilst I appreciate that Mr H says he had made payments to each of his 
cards in June and July, these payments werent sufficient to clear the outstanding balance 
as required under the formal demands. This meant that the accounts were still in arrears 
throughout this period (albeit to a lesser amount) and, as set out above, I think MBNA was 
entitled to put the accounts in default at this stage.
Ive considered what Mr H has said about the default notices requesting payment by the old 
payment dates despite the new dates having been agreed by MBNA. I can see that the 
letters sent by MBNA on 1 May 2019 say that the statement dates on the accounts have 
been changed  with future statements on account 5814 being moved to 21-23rd and 
payment due on 15-18th and on account 1102 being moved to 26-28th with payment due on 
20-25th each month. However, both letters make it clear that Mr H would still need to pay the 
current statement by the due date. So the minimum payment set out in the April statements 
which had already been sent would still have been due on the original payment dates in 
May. I also note that Mr H was informed during the call on 9 May that one of his accounts 
would show as two months in arrears as the statement was due to be printed the following 
day.
I think its most likely that any new statements issued by MBNA after it agreed to change the 
payment dates would have had the updated payment dates agreed had Mr H been able to 
make the minimum payments due in May. However, because these payments werent made, 
the account fell into arrears and the default notices therefore related to requests for 
payments outstanding from statements before the new payment dates had come into effect. 
They werent new statements as such. So I dont think MBNA has done anything wrong in 
terms of the dates it requested the outstanding amounts on the default notices.
When Mr H alerted MBNA to his financial difficulties on 9 May, MBNA was required to treat 
him fairly. The advisor during the call carried out an affordability assessment and was unable 
to offer Mr H a formal payment arrangement as he was already over-committed financially. I 
think this was reasonable as putting a formal arrangement in place would not have left Mr H 
with enough money for his other commitments in these circumstances. As Mr H didnt have 
any disposable income with which to make a proposal, MBNA couldnt reasonably set up a 
payment plan which would be bound to fail. As Mr H was unable to afford the minimum 
payment the interest on the account was frozen. The advisor during the call also referred 
him to organisations which may have been able to help. In light of this, I think MBNA has 
treated Mr H fairly when it became aware of his financial situation.
I understand that Mr Hs intention in contacting MBNA to inform it about his financial 
difficulties was to try and keep his credit file intact, which is understandable. However, 
MBNA is obliged to provide factual information to credit reference agencies so any arrears or 
defaults would still need to be reflected as such on his credit file. 
I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr H, but I can't fairly say that MBNA 
has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case. So I won't be asking it to do 
anything more. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and dont require MBNA 
Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman