DRN-4432874
The complaint
Mr C complains that Amtrust Europe Limited rejected a claim on his legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr C had a legal expenses insurance policy which started in April 2021. He made a claim on 
the policy to cover the legal costs of bringing a medical negligence claim against his GP. 
Amtrust said the claim wasnt covered, because the incidents that led to the claim had 
started before he took out the policy, and the insurance didnt provide cover in those 
circumstances. Mr C disagreed and lodged a complaint but Amtrust didnt change its 
decision, so he referred his complaint to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the policy started in 
April 2021 and there had been a series of events dating back to May 2020 which led to the 
claim.
Mr C has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says the negligent act which caused him 
harm and would form the basis of his legal action took place in July 2021  after the policy 
started.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy with Amtrust provides cover for medical negligence claims but only where the 
insured incident takes place within the period of cover. Theres no cover if the insured 
incident started before he bought the insurance. 
The policy defines Insured incident as the incident or the first of a series of incidents which 
may lead to a claim under this insurance. Only one insured incident shall be deemed to have 
arisen from all causes of action, incidents or events that are related by cause or by time. 
Terms like this are not unusual in legal expenses policies, since the insurance is designed to 
cover the risk of something happening in the future. 
Mr C says:
the negligent act was the event which caused him physical harm, which happened in 
July 2021 and led to him being removed as a patient and left without medication; 
this event began with him being incorrectly labelled as having a learning difficulty and 
a mental illness in May 2020, but he didnt know about that until 2021, after he 
obtained his records  the only event which may have been of a level of 'medical 
negligence' prior to [the policy] was a label of 'Learning Difficulty' and I did not have 
access to that information until 09/08/2021
Mr C had registered with the GP practice in May 2020. There followed a series of incidents 
that he was unhappy about. In August 2021 he obtained details of the records held about 
him and says this showed the practice had wrongly labelled him as having a learning 
difficulty and mental health issues, which wasnt the case. He says this is the first he knew 
about it.
I appreciate Mr C says that while he was unhappy with various incidents before April 2021, 
the specific incident that he wishes to take legal action on didnt happen until after he took 
out the insurance. But that incident needs to be seen in context. 
By his own account, the problems stemmed from what happened in May 2020. Even if he 
didnt know specifically what had caused the issues (the way he had been labelled) he did 
think he was not being treated correctly. So he knew something was wrong even if he didnt 
know the specific reason for it. 
And when he made the claim to Amtrust, he said the matter came to a head when I was 
referred to. who changed my medication, ultimately leaving him without medication. 
So the incident in July 2021 didnt happen in isolation; it was the latest in a series of ongoing 
events relating to the way he was treated and problems with his medication which, in his 
own words came to a head in July 2021. That series of incidents had started before he took 
out the policy. 
Taking all of the circumstances into account, I think it was reasonable for Amtrust to say the 
sequence of events started before he took out the policy and so the claim wasnt covered.
Amtrusts claims handlers considered whether the claim might be covered by the insurance 
Mr C had in place the previous year. As that policy was provided by a different insurer, its 
not something I can consider in this complaint though I note Mr C has in any event said he 
accepts that policy wouldnt have covered it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman