DRN-4036812
The complaint
The estate of Mr D complains about the service John Henshall Ltd provided when it sold a 
buildings insurance policy.
Mr D and Mrs P have brought the complaint on behalf of the estate of Mr D. For ease I shall 
refer to them below. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full.  
again here. 
But in summary Mr D and Mrs P took out a policy for the estate of Mr D, in which John 
Henshall was the broker.  
When Mr D and Mrs P later needed to make a claim on the policy, the Insurer told them they 
were underinsured, as it said the total rebuild value was around £425,000  but Mr D and 
Mrs P had insured it for only £140,000. As a result, the insurer was only paying a percentage 
of the claim value.
Mr D and Mrs P said John Henshall didnt do enough to explain matters regarding rebuild 
values during the sale. Mr D and Mrs P said if it had, they would have had taken further 
steps when answering the question.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I can see following the initial sales discussion, John Henshall provided a statement of 
fact to Mr D and Mrs P. It warns of the importance of reviewing the information on it is 
correct and the policy may not be valid, or offer cover at all, if it isnt.
As a commercial customer, under the Insurance Act 2015, it is the responsibility of 
the customer to make a fair presentation of the risk  meaning it was for Mr D and 
Mrs P to make sure the information provided was accurate and ask questions of 
anything they were unsure of. 
One of the questions in the statement of fact is what is the cost of rebuilding this 
property? to which I can see the answer provided was £140,000. I think the question 
asked here was clear that it relates to the cost of rebuilding the property. 
Mr D and Mrs P said they assumed this was the same as the Market Value of the 
property and said this to John Henshall during the call  who, they think should have 
explained how it differs. John Henshall said had it been asked questions about the 
rebuild value, it would have provided guidance.
John Henshall has been unable to provide a recording of the call, however it has 
provided a copy of its sales scripts and a note from the time of the call, which notes a 
script had been used. 
Having reviewed the information available, I think its more likely than not the 
question about the rebuild cost would have been asked as it is presented on the 
statement of fact. But Ive not seen anything to persuade me Mr D and Mrs P queried 
this question, or what it means, with John Henshall. 
I can see Mr D and Mrs P responded in an email regarding the statement of fact to 
provide further information about the roof however, I think there was an opportunity to 
ask about the rebuild value here. But they didnt do so. 
I appreciate Mr D and Mrs Ps comment they gave the answer they did, from the 
information they had. But as Ive set out above, under the relevant legislation it was 
the customers responsibility to provide correct information. So, I would have 
expected them to enquire if unsure, and Ive seen nothing to persuade me they did.
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the estate of Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of X to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman