DRN-2985215
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint about Evolution Money Limited (EML) relates to a secured loan 
they took in order to do some home improvements and consolidate some mortgage arrears 
and credit card debt. They feel the loan ought not to have been granted as it was 
unaffordable.
What happened
In early 2017 Mr and Mrs S obtained, through a broker, a secured loan with EML for £15,000 
over 120 months for home improvements and debt consolidation. 
Mr and Mrs S say that EML told them that after 12 months they would be able to apply to 
transfer the loan to EMLs sister company (MSL) on more favourable terms. They say they 
were told the interest rate would be better and the loan would become unsecured. Mr and 
Mrs S also say that EML told them that their credit score would be enhanced if they took the 
loan, and it would increase their chances of MSL agreeing to any loan transfer request in the 
future.
Mr and Mrs S did apply to transfer the loan to MSL but it was refused because of their poor 
credit rating. Mr and Mrs S complained to EML as they said they were then tied into the EML 
loan for a further six years on an interest rate which was not favourable. 
Mr and Mrs S also complained that EML should never have given them the loan in any event 
as they knew of their poor credit history and also that one third of Mr and Mrs S monthly 
income was overtime pay which was not always guaranteed.
EML said that MSL are not their sister company and that they did not say that the loan could 
be transferred after 12 months or that upon doing so it would become unsecured and on a 
better interest rate. They did however agree that in September 2018 they directed Mr and 
Mrs S to MSL when they were seeking additional finance, but that MSL is a third-party 
company. As such they rejected Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with EMLs final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there was no 
evidence to suggest EML had made the assurances Mr and Mrs S claimed. Further, having 
looked at Mr and Mrs S income and expenditure, at the time of their application for the loan, 
she thought the loan was affordable and EML hadnt done anything wrong or dealt with them 
unfairly.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In so far as any assurances said to have been given by EML, I think the best evidence 
available is in the form of the four recorded calls between EML and Mr and Mrs S which all 
took place prior to the EML loan being agreed and the loan illustration document sent to Mr 
and Mrs S. 
From the calls I can see that EML completed a verbal income and expenditure assessment 
for Mr and Mrs S. Mr S said his basic annual salary was £21,800 but that he never had a 
basic month and his net average monthly income was £2,441. Nothing was mentioned 
about his overtime being one third of his monthly salary.   EML gave Mr and Mrs S a 
quotation for a £15,000 secured loan over 120 months. The APR was 33.87%; the monthly 
payment £390.25; there was an acceptance fee of £1,500 and a set-up fee of £1,200; the 
total charge for interest was £29,130, with the total amount repayable being £46,830.
There was no mention during any of the calls of any potential transfer to MSL in the future.
Mr and Mrs S received a secured loan illustration from EML on 2 February and they 
subsequently confirmed that they wished to proceed with the loan. There is nothing on the 
face of that document which indicates there was to be any future transfer or the possibility of 
such a transfer of the loan to MSL. 
Having considered all the evidence I cannot fairly say that EML told Mr and Mrs S that they 
would be able to transfer their loan after 12 months. If that had been agreed I would have 
expected to have seen it written down by way of confirmation in the loan illustration 
document, but it was not. It was not mentioned either when the terms of the loan were 
discussed on the phone.
The second part to this complaint relates to whether the loan was affordable for Mr and Mrs 
S. EML undertook a fact find, a credit search and an income and expenditure assessment. 
EML also discussed Mr and Mrs S credit file and the three defaults and mortgage arrears 
that appeared. Mr S explained this had been caused by him previously being self-employed 
with limited work. Also discussed were some missed payments to Mr and Mrs S unsecured 
loan which they said were being disputed with the lender.
So, I can see that EML obtained a breakdown of Mr and Mrs S income and expenditure and 
Mr S confirmed in one call that his basic salary was £2,400 per month. That said, Mr S then 
confirmed his annual salary was £21,800 but that their average monthly income was £2,441. 
EML were also provided with three months of Mr S payslips from which they calculated that 
Mr S had a year to date income of £2,096.08 per month.
From all of this information EML produced a recommendation letter for the loan which they 
sent to Mr and Mrs S, and which they signed to confirm they were happy with. This showed 
that Mr and Mrs S combined income was £2,865.64 per month with an expenditure of 
£2,363.98. Based upon these figures Mr and Mrs S had a disposable income of just over 
£500 per month which meant they had sufficient income to cover the loan of £390.25 per 
month.
I understand Mr and Mrs S believe EML ought not to have relied on the overtime element of 
Mr S salary. EML had calculated his salary at £2,096.08 per month from his payslips but it 
was clear he was earning more than that from his November and December payslips. So, I 
think this demonstrates that EML was aware of his overtime and hadnt taken it into account.
Based on this I am satisfied that EML completed reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr and Mrs S would be able to repay their loan in a sustainable way.After our investigator issued his view, Mr and Mrs S told this service that they had received 
multiple calls from EML regarding the potential for them to borrow more money. I can 
confirm that I cannot consider this as part of this complaint and that if Mr and Mrs S wish to 
pursue a complaint in this regard they must make a formal complaint to EML.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman