DRN-3246417
The complaint
Mr L complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) didnt provide 
adequate support when he fell into arrears on his hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In December 2019, Mr L acquired a new car using a hire purchase agreement from VWFS. 
He was required to pay 48 monthly repayments or around £520 followed by a final optional 
payment of around £12,000 if he wanted to own the car at the end of the agreement. 
In early April 2020, Mr L contacted VWFS requesting a payment holiday of three months 
because his income had been affected by the global covid-19 pandemic. VWFS responded 
to say it was liaising with the government and regulator and told Mr L not to worry if his 
account fell into arrears as they were taking steps to assist customers. 
Mr L contacted VWFS again in July 2020 to say that he had missed the last three payments, 
would likely miss one more, but would then be able to resume his normal payments again 
from August. Mr L also said hed noticed missed payments had been recorded on his credit 
file while he had been in a payment holiday and wanted these removed. 
VWFS responded to say that Mr L hadnt been in any payment holiday, so the missed 
payments wouldnt be removed from his credit file. It said that because Mr L was in arrears 
on his agreement, he wasnt eligible for a payment holiday. 
Mr L continued making his monthly contractual repayments from August 2020 onwards. 
VWFS sent him a message about the arrears in August. It says it also contacted him once in 
October and November. In February 2021, VWFS sent Mr L some text messages and emails 
asking him to contact them about his account. It also sent him a notice of default in the post 
due to the four months of arrears. The post was returned undelivered as Mr L had moved 
address. VWFS says Mr L didnt tell them about his change of address. 
The agreement was terminated at the end of March 2021. Mr L got in contact with VWFS 
soon after to discuss the account. He said that he had maintained payments and the four 
months of arrears were from a time he should have been given a payment holiday. He said 
he wanted to continue paying his repayments and carry on with the agreement. VWFS didnt 
agree to this so Mr L raised a complaint. As VWFS still didnt agree, he referred his concerns 
to our service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought that VWFS acted 
unfairly by not giving Mr L a payment holiday between April and July 2020. This is because 
Mr L appeared to have been eligible for one as set out in the regulators guidance 
concerning consumers affected by the pandemic. She said VWFS should re-instate the 
credit agreement and allow Mr L to continue on the same terms as before and pay him £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
VWFS didnt agree. In summary, it said that after Mr L initially requested a payment holiday, 
he didnt contact VWFS again for over 100 days. This was despite VWFS not having agreed 
to a payment holiday. It says that Mr L never applied for a payment holiday at any time. It 
said Mr L made no reasonable attempts to contact VWFS after the arrears notices were sent 
to him or when it sent emails and text messages asking him to contact them to discuss the 
account. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS says that Mr L never applied for a payment holiday, but Im not persuaded thats 
entirely correct. Ive reviewed VWFS contact notes and I can see that when Mr L contacted 
it in April 2020 (prior to any arrears having accumulated) he said that his income had been 
impacted due to the covid-19 pandemic and he was hoping that VWFS would assist him by 
giving him a payment holiday of three months. 
VWFS responded by email to say that if Mr L fell into arrears or financial difficulty he 
shouldnt worry as VWFS were taking steps to help affected customers. VWFS said it would 
contact Mr L to discuss what support was on offer as soon as possible. VWFS notes 
following that contact state Set Cov19 for 3 Months and VWFS made no contact or took 
any action with the account for the next three months. So, it seems to me that Mr L did 
request a three month payment holiday and VWFS effectively accepted that request. 
In July 2020, Mr L got in touch with VWFS again to say that he required a further month of 
support until he could maintain his regular monthly repayments again. At this time VWFS 
told Mr L he wasnt eligible for a payment holiday because his account was in arrears. 
However, as Ive set out above, it seems VWFS had for all intents and purposes accepted 
Mr Ls request for a payment holiday already. And even if it hadnt, Im satisfied that VWFS 
should have approved a payment holiday for him between April and July 2020. 
I say this because the regulators guidance to firms around dealing with consumers impacted 
by covid-19 set out that those in circumstances such as Mr Ls ought to be given a three 
month payment holiday (later increased to a maximum of six months). Its clear that Mr Ls 
financial difficulty was short-term and caused in isolation by the covid-19 pandemic. VWFS 
were also made aware prior to the arrears accruing that this is what caused Mr Ls financial 
difficulty. Further, VWFS didnt at that time tell Mr L that he needed to take any other specific 
steps to apply for a payment holiday. I therefore see no reason why he wouldnt be eligible 
for an initial three month payment holiday, followed by a further month when he asked for it 
in July 2020. 
Had VWFS correctly applied the payment holiday between April and July 2020 then it ought 
never to have sought to terminate the credit agreement. For this reason, I think its fair that 
VWFS now either re-instate the credit agreement, or if that isnt possible, it should allow Mr L 
to keep the car under the same terms as were originally contained in the credit agreement. It 
should also remove any adverse information it has recorded against his credit file. Lastly, I 
think finding out VWFS had been recording adverse information for several months after he 
was led to believe VWFS would ensure it provided adequate support for him would 
understandably have been distressing for Mr L. In the circumstances, I think VWFS should 
pay Mr L £150 for the upset it caused. 
VWFS says that Mr L wasnt proactive in contacting it about the arrears nor did it correctly 
update VWFS with his new address. It says it tried to contact Mr L by text message as well 
as email about the arrears, but Mr L didnt respond. It says for these reasons it didnt act unfairly in terminating the agreement. However, as Ive set out above, I think it was VWFS 
initial error that led to their being a situation where arrears were being recorded when they 
shouldnt have been. Had VWFS done as it should  which was to provide Mr L with a 
payment holiday  he would never have been in the position whereby VWFS might terminate 
the agreement. This is because Mr L continued to make his contractual payments from 
August 2020 onwards. 
Ive noted from VWFS contact notes that its possible Mr L did update them with his new 
address but that it was VWFS error as to why it wasnt updated. However, the evidence 
surrounding this is unclear. In any event, I do agree with VWFS that Mr L could have 
contacted VWFS sooner when text messages and emails were sent to him. So, I dont think 
Mr L did all he reasonably could to mitigate his current position of having the agreement 
terminated. It is for this reason Ive considered compensation of £150 to be fair and 
reasonable, rather than a larger award. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
Re-instate Mr Ls hire purchase agreement, or if this isnt possible, to allow Mr L to 
keep the car under the same terms as previously agreed under that agreement and 
as if a payment holiday had been accepted between April and July 2020. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file. 
Pay £150 compensation for the distress caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman