DRN-1379955
The complaint
Miss E complains that she hasnt received funds sent to her account held with Advanced 
Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus (Cashplus).
What happened
In May 2019, Miss E made two international transfers into her Cashplus account  one for 
£3,000 and one for £3,500. These were made from another account held by Miss E with a 
third-party business.
Cashplus confirmed it received the payment for £3,000 on 29 May 2019 but says the 
reference on the payment didnt make it clear which account the finds were intended for so it 
requested proof of payment from Miss E. Cashplus says, it never received sufficient 
evidence to allow it to credit the funds to Miss Es account. And on 5 June 2019 it says 
Miss E closed her account and asked for the funds to be returned to the senders account. 
Cashplus says the funds were returned. The business that holds the account where the 
funds were originally sent from say it has never received the funds back.
Cashplus has confirmed that it never received the payment of £3,500 and Miss E has 
confirmed that this issue has now been resolved and she has traced these funds.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said he didnt think 
Cashplus had been unreasonable to request proof of payment before the funds were 
released as the payment instructions werent sufficiently clear. And he said that he had seen 
evidence that the funds had been returned to the sending account.
Miss E didnt agree. She said that the third-party business had confirmed that it had not 
received the returned funds, and she believed they were still with Cashplus. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator.
Miss E has confirmed that the issue with the £3,500 payment has now been resolved, so I 
havent commented on that further in this decision.
The payment was sent as an international payment using an International Bank Account 
Number (IBAN). Cashplus has explained that when it receives this type of payment, the 
payer needs to provide the receiving UK sort code and account number in the reference field 
to allow it to identify where the payment should be allocated. And if this isnt provided, the 
funds will be returned to the sender.
The screenshots Miss E has provided dont evidence that she entered the account number 
and sort code. And Cashplus has informed us that the reference provided was one word, 
which isnt associated to any of Miss Es accounts. So it requested proof of payment to ensure that the funds were intended for Miss Es account. As I havent seen any evidence 
that Miss E sent the funds with the correct reference, I dont think Cashplus was 
unreasonable to carry out further checks to ensure the payment was allocated to the correct 
account. 
Miss E provided Cashplus with some evidence but Cashplus explained to her that it wasnt 
sufficient to show proof of payment and explained what evidence it would need to see to 
release the funds into her account. I think it was clear what information it required and why - 
so  I dont think it made a mistake here.
Miss E didnt provide the evidence Cashplus required but asked for the funds to be returned 
to the sending. Cashplus has provided both this service and Miss E with evidence that these 
funds were returned on 14 June 2019.
So taking everything into account, I haven't seen any evidence that Cashplus has made a 
mistake in handling these payments, so it follows that I don't think this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman