DRN-3552931
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) are holding him liable for a loan he didnt 
apply for and for two payments from his account that he says he didnt authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In July 2020 a £20,000 loan in Mr S name was applied for, approved, and the funds credited 
to his BoS account. Soon after an attempt was made to transfer £6,000 from the account. 
This payment was held by BoSs security systems and Mr S was advised to contact their 
fraud team  he attended a branch to do so. Following a conversation with BoS Mr S 
account was unlocked. Two £10,000 payments were then made from his current account. 
In October 2020 Mr S contacted BoS to say he had no knowledge of the loan or the 
payments from his account. BoS investigated but concluded Mr S had applied for the loan 
and authorised the payments. The matter was referred to our service and one of our 
Investigators didnt recommend that it should be upheld. Mr S disagrees and has asked for 
an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr S complaint is that hes being held liable for the £20,000 loan that he says he 
didnt apply for. He also says he didnt make the two outgoing payments of £10,000 each 
that followed. 
Ive listened to the call that took place between Mr S and BoS call handler when he was in 
branch. The call handler also spoke to a member of staff in branch who confirmed theyd 
verified Mr S identity through the use of Chip and PIN and that theyd seen his driving 
licence. So, Im satisfied its more likely than not that it was Mr S on that call. 
During the call Mr S indicates he has knowledge of the loan and that hed taken it to make 
home improvements. And that the payment hed attempted to authorise was to builders for 
work. 
This clearly contradicts what Mr S later said about the loan. Mr S hasnt provided an 
explanation for this. Given this contradiction, I dont find Mr S testimony to be credible 
evidence. 
Beyond this, there is also no plausible explanation for how a third party wouldve been able 
to obtain enough of Mr S private security information to allow them to log into his online and 
or mobile banking to both apply for the loan and to make the payments that followed. 
As such, I dont think BoS concluding Mr S applied for the loan and authorised the payments 
was unreasonable or unfair. Mr S has also questioned the affordability of the loan. If Mr S 
now accepts that he did apply for the loan, but he believes that BoS were irresponsible in 
lending to him, this is something he should take up with them in the first instance. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman