DRN-3285266
The complaint
A sole trader business, which Ill refer to as S, complains about Clydesdale Bank Plcs 
recently introduced internet banking platform. S says the new platform is inferior to the old 
and has caused it a number of problems, which Clydesdale has been slow to resolve.
What happened
In October 2020, Clydesdale notified S that it was to be moved to a new internet banking 
platform. S found the platform less user-friendly and its functionality inferior. 
In November 2020, S complained to Clydesdale about the new system. It said the system 
wasnt as good as the old one and the service during the transition had been poor. S raised 
specific issues regarding an international payment, which had been delayed, the way BACS 
payment authorisations worked in the new system and a cancelled payment that got stuck 
in the system.   
Clydesdale largely upheld the complaint. They apologised for the time taken in resolving Ss 
issues and for their poor communication. They paid £80 into Ss account as compensation 
for the inconvenience caused. 
S wasnt satisfied with the banks response, so it referred the complaint to our service. S said 
Clydesdale had been unwilling to address the issues raised and the compensation was 
inadequate. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and concluded that the bank should 
have done more to resolve the issues arising from its new platform promptly. She 
recommended increasing the compensation to £200. 
Clydesdale accepted our investigators recommendation. S said that, whilst our assessment 
was fair, it wanted an ombudsman to look at the amount of compensation again, as it didnt 
think £200 was enough. It provided some further submissions regarding the time spent and 
relevant hourly rates. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, for essentially the 
same reasons. So Im not going to award any additional compensation beyond her 
recommendation. I know this will be a disappointment to S, so Id like to explain why. 
I can understand how frustrating it is for S, that for their particular business needs, the new 
internet banking platform is less user-friendly than the old. But Im afraid I consider the 
introduction of the platform to be a commercial decision the bank is entitled to make. I say 
that because Im satisfied theres nothing in Ss contract with the bank that prevents 
Clydesdale from making such a change. And S is free to leave the contract at any point if the 
new platform no longer meets its needs. 
When banks introduce changes such as this, they are balancing the requirements of a wide 
range of customers and other stakeholders. Unfortunately, this means that there tend to be 
winners and losers. But that doesnt mean that the bank has acted unfairly or done 
something wrong. 
I can see that the specific problems raised with the bank include some relating to individual 
transactions. But I note that these seem to have been resolved, so Im not going to comment 
on them further in this decision. Ss complaint also concerned some general features of the 
system, which the bank isnt going to change. For the reasons Ive already given, Im not 
going to ask it to change these. 
I agree with our investigator that where the bank should have done better is in its response 
to Ss problems when they were raised. It was foreseeable that a new platform would result 
in business customers needing increased support initially. So the bank should have had 
resources in place to deal with queries. S shouldnt have had to chase for help. In particular, 
it shouldnt have had to wait nine months to get a stuck transaction cancelled from the 
platform. And the bank should have told S, as theyd promised to do, when theyd finally 
sorted it out.   
Putting things right
The bank has already paid £80 and apologised for their poor service. I agree with our 
investigator that this isnt enough. 
I havent seen any evidence of any direct losses caused to Ss business by the change. I 
note that when our investigator enquired about losses, Ss representative replied with 
submissions regarding the amount of time he and an accountant had spent and a request to 
consider compensation based on their respective hourly rates.
Ive thought about this carefully, but Im not persuaded that the sum claimed is a direct cost 
to the business caused by Clydesdales customer service errors. I think much of this time 
related to time spent on tasks that I consider were just part of the normal administrative 
burden of running a business, for example, changing the system over and communicating 
with other parts of the group. I also dont think it would be fair to award compensation for 
time spent in making the complaint, as this would apply to every complaint we see. So Im 
not going to make an award along those lines. 
I agree with our investigator that the banks poor service and communication did cause some 
inconvenience above and beyond that which a business should generally expect. I dont 
think there is an exact way of arriving at a figure for this. But on balance, I think the amount 
of £200 suggested by our investigator is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay 
S an additional £120, giving total compensation of £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 Ombudsman