DRN-4008807
The complaint
Mr B complains about the response of John Lewis Financial Services Limited to the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, in relation to a credit card payment 
made to partly fund the purchase of a solar panel system.
What happened
Mr B had a credit card account with John Lewis. In January 2013 he used this card to partly 
fund the purchase of a solar panel system. The credit balance on the account was paid off a 
few months later and the account was closed. 
In 2022, Mr B contacted John Lewis to make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (s.75). Mr B said misrepresentations were made by the supplier which led 
him to make the purchase. He said the supplier of the solar panels had told him the system 
would be self-funded via a payment scheme called Feed-in-tariff. However, Mr Bs said 
the payments he ended up receiving were not enough to cover the cost of the system. 
John Lewis responded to Mr Bs s.75 claim, saying that as the transaction was completed in 
2013, Mr B was outside the six-year timeframe in which a claim had to be made. So, it would 
not look further into his claim. John Lewis provided referral rights to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, and Mr B brought his complaint to us. 
However, our Investigator agreed that as the s.75 claim had been brought outside the 
six-year timeframe, John Lewis had been within its rights not to consider the claim further. 
She also did not consider we could ask John Lewis to do anything further under 
section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.140A), as Mr B had repaid the balance of 
account in full more than six years before he had raised his concerns. 
Mr B understood that he had brought the matter up outside of the relevant period, but as he 
had never been informed of the timeframes, he wanted to pursue the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as our Investigator, largely for the same 
reasons. 
Ultimately, the key issues in relation to Mr Bs complaint are the relevant time limits that exist 
in relation to him making a claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and in relation to him 
bringing a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Ill deal with each of these in turn.
S.75
Mr B has said that the supplier of the solar panels misrepresented the benefits of the 
system, and this led him into the purchase. A s.75 claim can be made where an appropriate 
relationship exists and where a relevant purchase has been made using credit. The claim 
can, essentially, make the creditor  in this case John Lewis  responsible for the actions of 
the supplier when the sale took place. However, there are time limits that apply to claims that 
can be made under s.75.
These time limits are largely speaking, set out in the Limitation Act 1980. In coming to my 
decision, I am required to take into account  amongst other things  relevant law. And I 
consider the Limitation Act 1980 to be relevant to this complaint. 
The Limitation Act 1980 says that a claim such as the one Mr B is making needs to be 
brought within six years of the date on which the cause of action accrued. If a claim is 
made to a creditor after this period, the creditor has no obligation to investigate the claim. 
The date on which the cause of action accrued in relation to Mr Bs s.75 claim, is the date 
Mr B paid the supplier and entered the contract for the solar panels, which was in 
January 2013. 
There are some potential extensions to this time limit. These can occur in certain 
circumstances, such as where a fraudulent misrepresentation has been made. Should such 
circumstances have taken place, the time limit for bringing a claim is either the same as 
above or, if later, three years from when the claimant was, or ought reasonably to have 
been, aware of the cause for the claim. 
Mr Bs claim is based, generally speaking, on him not receiving enough money under the 
Feed-in-tariff scheme to cover the costs of the solar panels. He has said he was told he 
would receive this, and I think when he discovered he was not receiving this level of money 
he ought reasonably to have been aware something was wrong. It may have taken a couple 
of annual statements for Mr B to have realised this. But certainly by the time he had received 
three such statements he ought reasonably to have known he wasnt receiving the benefits 
hes said he was told to expect. This would likely have happened in early 2016. Meaning that 
the three-year extension to the time frame for bringing a claim, would not have been (at least 
significantly) longer than the standard six-year time frame. 
I note Mr B has said he was not aware of this time limit. But this does not change the fact 
that it exists.
Under the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980, Mr B had six years from early 2013 to bring 
his s.75 claim. As he did not raise it for around nine years, Mr B made his s.75 claim too late. 
So, I do not consider it would be fair or reasonable to ask John Lewis to consider the claim 
further. And I do not uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint. 
S.140A
Mr B did not raise any concerns under any other part of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
However, as part of our inquisitorial remit, we have considered whether or not John Lewis 
should have considered the issues raised further, including whether Mr Bs concerns should 
be considered under s.140A. 
S.140A is different to s.75, and focusses more on the relationship between the creditor and 
debtor (i.e. between John Lewis and Mr B). 
However, similar to the time frames for bringing a s.75 claim, there are time limits for making 
a complaint relating to s.140A. These time limits are actually those set out in the jurisdiction 
rules that the Financial Ombudsman Service is required to follow and can be found in the 
Dispute Resolution: Complaints part of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook (DISP). DISP 2.8.2 R says, in part:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:

(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in 
DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional 
circumstances
Both a complaint involving s.75 and a complaint involving s.140A are subject to these 
jurisdictional time limits. This difference is the event being complained about and thus when 
this time limit starts.
The time limit for bringing a complaint about a creditors response to a s.75 claim usually 
begins when the response is made. This response is the event being complained about in 
relation to the s.75 claim. So, the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider Mr Bs 
complaint about John Lewis response to the s.75 claim as this was made shortly before the 
complaint was referred to us. And I have set out my findings on this above.
However, the relevant event for Mr Bs complaint relating to s.140A, would be the 
relationship between John Lewis and Mr B as it related to the solar panels. This relationship 
ended when Mr B paid off the credit used to purchase these panels, which happened in 
March 2013. And I think Mr B ought reasonably have become aware he had cause to 
complain after having received a few years of financial statements. 
So, whilst the rules setting out the timeframes are different, that actual period for bringing a 
complaint about s.140A is similar to that for bringing the s.75 claim. And I consider the 
complaint should also have been brought no later than early 2019. As it wasnt brought until 
2022, it is not within our jurisdiction to consider. 
I have thought about whether there are any exceptional circumstances which meant Mr B 
was unable to bring the complaint within the time limits. However, Mr B has not indicated 
that there were any. He has said that he did not raise his concerns until he read about others 
doing similar. And that he was not made aware of the time limits for raising these concerns. 
But I do not think this means Mr B ought not to have reasonably been aware of the cause for 
complaint. This would have happened when he ought to have realised he was not getting the 
return he says he was promised, which as Ive said wouldve been after having received a 
few annual statements. And it is the knowledge of a cause for complaint, not the knowledge 
of an ability to complain or that there is a time limit for doing so that is relevant. I do not 
consider the lack of knowledge about the potential complaints process to be an exceptional 
circumstance.Ultimately, I dont consider Mr B brought a complaint about s.140A within the timeframe set 
out in DISP 2.8.2 R, so I dont consider I have the necessary jurisdiction to consider it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold those parts of this complaint that I have jurisdiction to 
consider.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman