DRN-3190075
The complaint
Mrs P has complained to Better Retirement Group Ltd (BRG) about advice to transfer 
pension benefits from her defined benefit Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) to a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). Mrs P has said that she didnt think that the transfer of 
guaranteed benefits was in her best interests and that, had she fully appreciated the high 
risks involved in the transfer, she wouldnt have proceeded.
What happened
Mrs P initially held discussions with a separate advisory firm  Firm B  in late 2016 and it 
undertook a review of her personal financial situation. It determined Mrs Ps circumstances 
to be as follows:
She was 50 years old and was employed with an annual income of around £31,300.
Mrs P owned her home, which was valued at £185,000, and with a mortgage of 
£116,000.
She had £1,000 in savings and £100 in an Individual Savings Account (ISA).
She had outstanding debts of around £7,800.
She had a planned retirement age of 60, with no expressed desire to retire before 
then.
She was in good health.
She had a low/medium attitude to investment risk.
Mrs P held deferred pension benefits from a period of prior employment, and she was 
recorded as wanting a review of this due to concerns that they may not be safe where they 
were.
Mrs P had received a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) from that OPS membership of 
£306,472, and she was then referred to BRG by Firm B so that she could receive advice on 
her options, specifically a potential transfer of benefits.
In December 2016, BRG issued a suitability report, which, within a section entitled A guide 
to our recommendations said that it had been based upon the information provided to it by 
Firm B. BRG set out its understanding of Mrs Ps objectives as follows:
Reshape her benefits to enable her to take an enhanced level of flexible income to 
fund the early years of her retirement.
Lump sum death benefits for Mrs Ps partner.
Maximum amount of tax free cash.
BRG said that Mrs P could expect an annual income from the scheme benefits at age 60 of 
£11,139. It had also conducted a transfer value analysis (TVAS) which had determined that, 
to match the scheme benefits at age 60, the transferred benefits would need to achieve an 
annual return of 7.68% - the critical yield. BRG said that this should be possible to achieve, 
given the investments available to Mrs P on the basis of her attitude to risk.
BRG also calculated how long Mrs Ps pension benefits might last if the transfer proceeded. 
In doing so, it made certain assumptions, including that Mrs P would take the same level of 
income from the SIPP at age 60 as she would from the scheme.
This determined that, on the basis of 2% pa growth, Mrs Ps pension funds would run out at 
age 83. At higher growth rates of 5% and 8%, the funds would run out at ages 99 with a 
surplus of £12,723 and at 99 with a surplus fund of £1.97m.
BRG said that, as the pension funds would be actively managed, it thought that 5% pa 
growth was achievable, taking into account Mrs Ps attitude to investment risk  which had 
been recorded as being 6 on a scale of 1 to 10, where 1 was the lowest risk attitude and 
10 was the highest. This was, however, higher than that which had been determined by 
firm B, recorded as being 5 out of 10.
In terms of capacity for loss, Mrs P was recorded as being able to tolerate small to medium 
losses and that she wouldnt mind taking a degree of risk for the sake of higher future 
benefits.
BRG recommended that Mrs P transfer her deferred benefits, which would then be managed 
by Firm B. But as the deadline for the transfer had been missed, a revised lower amount of 
£271,000 was transferred to the SIPP.
The funds were invested with a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM), but Mrs P then moved 
her funds elsewhere as they were sustaining significant losses. My understanding is that 
they had reduced to around £210,000 when transferred out for the DFM.
Mrs P then complained about the advice to transfer, initially to Firm B, and then to BRG as 
the business which had conducted the suitability assessment for the transfer.
BRG didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint and so the matter was referred to this service. One of 
our investigators assessed the matter and set out their findings as follows:
He said that, on the basis that it was clear that investment advice had been provided 
by Firm B, the issue to determine was whether the transfer advice given by BRG was 
suitable.
He confirmed his view that, given the available evidence, which included reference to 
Mrs P as BRGs client, fee details, a description in the agreement that it would restrict 
its service to the advice on the transfer, and confirmation of this to the receiving 
product provider, BRG directly advised Mrs P on the transfer. 
In accordance with the regulators requirements, the starting point of providing advice 
should have been the assumption that the transfer wouldnt be suitable, and to 
overcome this, BRG would need to demonstrate that a transfer would be in Mrs Ps 
best interests.
Mrs P had a small amount of surplus income each month, and a very small amount 
of savings. In contrast, she had £116,000 outstanding on her mortgage for a property 
valued at £185,000. She also had other liabilities in terms of loans and credit cards of around £7,800. Mrs P therefore didnt have the capacity to sustain large losses.
Mrs P was a member of her current employers defined benefit pension scheme, and 
would have a further ten years service by the time of her retirement at age 60  a 
total of 20 years. But the defined benefits which would be the subject of the transfer 
would still constitute her primary pension. And she wasnt in a position to expose that 
pension to investment risk.
Mrs P was first assessed as having a 5 out of 10 risk rating where 1 would be the 
lowest risk and 10 would be the highest. But this was then changed, not by her own 
assessment, to 6 our of 10. This was described as matching the risk rating of the 
recommended portfolio. But she had little investment experience, and this, combined 
with her low capacity for loss, meant that she would realistically have been a low-
medium risk, or cautious, investor.
BRG needed to consider the overall suitability of the proposition, including the type of 
policy to receive the transfer and the investments then chosen. This was the case, 
irrespective of the notion that Firm B was responsible for the investment advice. But 
there was no consideration or justification of the suitability of the strategy chosen for 
Mrs P.
The investigator didnt think that a SIPP was a suitable product for Mrs P. It seemed 
to her that the only reason Mrs P was advised to transfer to a SIPP was so that the 
recommended portfolio could then be used. This wouldnt have been available within 
a stakeholder pension plan, for example.
But the investigator considered that the transfer, to whatever receiving type of plan, 
was unsuitable for Mrs P. In terms of death benefits, she noted that Mrs P wished to 
leave a lump sum death benefit to her partner. But whilst death benefits form part of 
an individuals retirement planning, the primary purpose of retirement benefits was to 
provide for that individual. And there was no indication that Mrs P had any health 
issues which might mean that she wouldnt benefit from the security of the scheme 
income.
Furthermore, on the assumption that Mrs P would reach normal life expectancy, 
there would in any case be a significantly reduced lump sum available. The scheme 
would, by contrast, provide an escalating 50% spouses benefit in the event of Mrs 
Ps death.
The investigator then considered the critical yield required to match the scheme 
benefits at age 60. This was 7.68% pa. The discount rate, which was used in loss 
assessments for upheld transfer complaints, for the nine years left to age 60, was 
3.7% pa. Although businesses werent required to refer to these rates in providing 
advice, they were nevertheless a reasonable indication of the growth rate which was 
deemed achievable.
For further comparison, the investigator noted that the regulators low, mid and upper 
assumed growth rate bands were 2%, 5% and 8% pa respectively. On the basis of 
these assumed growth rates and the discount rate, the investigator thought it 
unlikely, given Mrs Ps risk attitude, that shed be able to exceed the scheme 
benefits.
She further observed that, although Mrs P intended to retire at age 60, this was in 
any case the schemes normal retirement age. And by this time, her combined 
guaranteed income from the deferred scheme benefits and those produced by her current scheme membership would be around £21,000 pa, which would be sufficient 
for Mrs Ps expenditure needs.
The investigator said that, as hed concluded that the advice was unsuitable, BRG should 
undertake a loss calculation and pay redress if that demonstrated a loss.
BRG disagreed, however, saying the following in summary:
Although the investigator had correctly noted that Mrs Ps attitude to risk score had 
increased from 5 to 6, this was dealt with in a series of emails between Mrs P and 
Firm B  and it was agreed that this was the appropriate risk rating.
It undertook appropriate due diligence in terms of the receiving investments, as 
evidenced by the document it sent to the regulator after the collapse of the 
investment provider.
With regard to the suitability of the transfer, it addressed the high bar for 
demonstrating this, and this was reflected on a number of occasions in the suitability 
report.
It also looked at the total amount of Mrs Ps safeguarded benefits, in addition to her 
income and liabilities. In relation to the latter two, once the state pension had begun, 
this combined with the benefits from her current scheme membership would exceed 
her expenditure. Mrs P had expected that her mortgage would be repaid by that time 
(without needing to use tax free cash from her deferred benefits). Her safeguarded 
income would be in the region of £19,000 pa.
Although there might be an income gap, if Mrs P wished to retire at 60, this wasnt as 
negative an aspects as had been suggested.
The attitude to risk assessment had been an iterative and multi-faceted process 
and Mrs P had had direct involvement in the risk rating decision. BRG had assumed 
a lower rate of investment return than would have been likely from the level 6 
investment in normal circumstances. This provided Mrs P with a conversative 
realistic assessment on which to compare her safeguarded and risk based situation.
Since the introduction of the pension freedoms and flexi-drawdown, SIPPs had 
become suitable for mainstream investors, and BRG had undertaken its proper due 
diligence on the SIPP provider which would receive the transferred funds.
It also undertook due diligence on the discretionary fund manager used to invest the 
proceeds  and it was a suitable home for someone who had little investment 
experience of their own.
It had properly assessed the costs involved in the transfer, but considered that the 
actual cost difference between the SIPP investment and the DB scheme was 
exaggerated. It had also undertaken comparisons between SIPP providers to 
determine a suitable recipient for Mrs Ps transferred funds.
With regard to the death benefits, Mrs P had a partner (not a civil partner) at the time 
and her pension fund had, in 2010, been subject to a sharing order. This would have 
had an effect on the death benefits payable, and it was also worth noting that over 
50% of the fund related to GMP benefits. And although Mrs P was in good health, 
she was a smoker, which might impair her life expectancy.It wasnt unsuitable to suggest that having the potential to benefit from 100% of the 
remaining fund provided greater flexibility and reward than the scheme benefits.
It considered that the critical yield evaluation method was a flawed tool, and this 
had also been accepted by the regulator when it rectified the assessment process. 
The assumptions used werent reliable market indicators, and pension fund 
managers and trustees didnt use it when arriving at fair values for assessing 
liabilities.
It didnt agree that the pension fund would need to grow by 7.69% each and every 
year as this assumed that interest rates, gilt yields and annuity rates would be lower 
in ten years time than their historically low levels at the time of the advice.
The discount rate was relevant, which was why it determined as its hurdle rate in DB 
transfer advice a 5% gross rate of return. It understood that this services discount 
rate was net of charges, and so the 5% gross rate it used was directly comparable to 
the rate published by this service.
It then referred to the income drawdown report it compiled, noting that a 5% gross 
return (accounting for all costs) would provide benefits matching the scheme until 
Mrs P was over 99. 
On that basis, Mrs P passed its calculations test to proceed to the next stage of 
examining her personal circumstances and financial objectives.
Mrs P had initially raised a complaint against the investment provider and Firm B, but 
as the last man standing then referred a complaint about BRG, even though she 
had a clear understanding of who had wronged her.
BRG believed it was suitable advice to transfer to support an appropriate balance 
between the safeguarded benefits provided by her current scheme membership and 
the state pension, and a risk based pension with increased flexibility, better death 
benefits and improved tax free cash.
BRG believed that Mrs P would have made gains in her financial utility from pension 
savings as a result of the transfer, but this was of course without the benefit of 
hindsight in relation to the situation with the DFM. BRG rejected such transfer 
propositions in over 75% of cases, but in order to reach its decision in this case, it 
used considerations in the regulators consultation paper 19/25. This said the 
following:
There are some valid reasons why consumers may want to transfer their DB 
pensions. Health or crippling debt may drive a preference for transferring and these 
consumers are identified in our carve-out from the prohibition on contingent 
charging. Then there are those consumers, often more able to afford advice ones, 
whose preferences revolve around wealth management and inheritance planning. 
From our work, we consider that only a small number of these clients are likely to 
be suitable for a transfer.
The main categories of client suited to a transfer includes:
oConsumers in households with multiple DB or other guaranteed pension income 
sources that is sufficient to meet their needs so that they can accept investment 
risk to acquire additional flexibilityoConsumers in households with significant other assets, where a transfer allows 
better tax planning
oConsumers in households with significant DC pensions or other assets, and the 
DB scheme is not required to meet their needs
oIn rare cases, where employer solvency is at risk, consumers who have a 
DB pension that exceeds the Pension Protection Fund limit
oA small number of consumers who have emigrated so that currency matching 
of assets and liabilities and/or tax differences outweigh the loss of guaranteed 
income.
The above could be further illustrated by the FCAs process for assessing 
suitability.
BRG said it was disappointed by the trauma which had been caused to clients     
who had invested with the DFM, but it said that there was no doubt that it had 
been misinformed and misled by the lack of integrity demonstrated by the 
DFMs senior management, as confirmed by the regulator in August 2019.
The investigator considered the further points raised by BRG and replied as follows:
He accepted that BRG conducted due diligence assessments on both the transfer 
and the underlying investment, but he remained of the view that the transfer hadnt 
been suitable for Mrs P.
A primary point was that Mrs P wasnt planning to retire before the scheme 
retirement date, and so she could have simply waited for her defined benefits to 
begin. There was no benefit to her at the time from transferring into an arrangement 
which offered flexi drawdown.
He wished to point out that he hadnt concluded that a different personal 
arrangement to a SIPP would have been more suitable for Mrs P  rather it had been 
his view that Mrs P should have been advised to maintain her position in the scheme.
The investigator remained unconvinced that the suitability of the investment strategy 
had been properly assessed and set out to Mrs P. But he in any case considered the 
overall transfer proposition to be unsuitable, and so this point became of secondary 
importance.
Mrs P didnt need to take any action at the time of the advice  any flexibility option 
wouldnt in any case have been exercised until she was 60. And this was reflected in 
the recommendation in the suitability report that Mrs P not begin taking income until 
she was 60. 
It also seemed unnecessary that it would then simply be assumed that she would 
take the same income from flexi drawdown as she would, on a guaranteed basis, 
from the scheme. 
As to the matter of death benefits, the investigator remained of the view that the risks 
posed by transferring out the guaranteed benefits werent justified by the benefit of 
Mrs Ps partner receiving 100% of whatever fund value was left in the event of her 
death. Mrs P was the focus of the advice, rather than her partner, and so her needs 
took precedence. Furthermore, Mrs P had confirmed that she was engaged to her 
partner and has since married.
In terms of the critical yield, the investigator noted BRGs view that this was a flawed tool, but also noted that it had nevertheless dedicated an entire section of the 
suitability report to this. The suitability report also confirmed the critical yield required 
of 7.68%. It was therefore relevant and a good indicator of the viability of the transfer 
from a financial perspective. And if this was compared against the discount rate of 
3.7%, it was clear that the transfer wasnt financially viable for Mrs P.
He also didnt think that Mrs Ps recorded objectives, e.g. flexibility and death 
benefits, justified disregarding the lack of financial viability, for the reasons hed 
already set out.
He then addressed BRGs assertion that the transfer was suitable on the basis that 
underlying investment returns of 5% gross would sustain an income equal to that 
produced by Mrs Ps scheme until age 99. The investigator said that this may have 
been within the regulators range of acceptable assumed returns, but the point was 
that this nevertheless assumed a 5% non-guaranteed yearly return  whereas the 
guaranteed scheme benefits were exposed to no risk at all.
This meant that the appropriate comparator was a product on the market which 
would also produce a guaranteed income  an annuity. And the critical yield required 
to achieve the fund value to then pay that annuity from age 60 was more than double 
the relevant discount rate at the time.
As to some of the other considerations which BRG had said the regulator had cited 
as being relevant to the suitability of a transfer, the investigator said that Mrs P 
wasnt in bad health and didnt have crippling debt. Her household didnt contain 
multiple defined benefit scheme memberships or other guaranteed income sources. 
Further, she didnt have significant other assets and didnt have any periods of 
defined contributions membership. The scheme was fully funded and there was no 
risk to her ex employers solvency. And lastly, Mrs P hadnt emigrated.
And so the investigator remained of the view that, even taking those additional 
considerations into account, the transfer was still unsuitable.
But as agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, the investigator said that the complaint 
would be referred to an ombudsman for review.
BRG then made further submissions, as follows:
It reiterated that it had considered the whole transfer proposition, and its cash flow 
analysis then enabled Firm B to consider this in comparison with the existing defined 
benefit scheme, based upon conservative assumptions which were closely aligned to 
this services discount rate.
Income flexibility was more important to Mrs P than most other aspects of pensions 
freedoms  she wasnt seeking to enhance her retirement benefits, but wanted to be 
able to access them flexibly.
It maintained that, although it had set out the critical yield, as it was required to do, it 
was a flawed indicator and had been of limited use in helping Mrs P make her 
decision. BRG had explained its relevance, but hadnt endorsed its use in 
determining suitability.
The expectation of normality returning to interest rates and gilt yields  along with the 
likelihood of what might happen to CETVs in the future - informed its assessment of 
suitability.Mrs Ps primary reason for transferring was flexibility  and to lesser extent being a 
smoker. On the basis of what was a generous CETV at that time, it calculated that, 
on a 5% pa growth assumption, Mrs Ps pension funds would never run out.
Whilst the scheme benefits would also never have run out, this disregarded Mrs Ps 
desire for flexibility in retirement, and the fact that she would also have 20 years 
membership of her current employers scheme by age 60.
According to the regulators own internal suitability checklist, the primary concern 
was whether Mrs P needed the scheme income to meet her needs.
These needs would have come to just under £10,000 pa., which would have been 
amply covered by her state pension and her current period of defined benefit scheme 
membership. She wouldnt have been reliant on the deferred benefits in question.
The only reasonable conclusion which could be drawn was therefore that the transfer 
would be suitable, and the timing would not be likely to improve, i.e. transfer values 
would likely fall in the future.
It considered the investment to be used, and checked that it wasnt in any way 
unregulated and would be with an established FCA-regulated and approved 
stockbroker, investment maker, investment manager and DFM.
Mrs P hadnt lost out because of the transfer, but rather due to the regulator not 
realising that the DFM had been misleading and misinforming it (and BRG).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP, I need to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
This isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied, but provides 
useful context for my assessment of the business' actions here.
Within the FCAs handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time BRG advised Mrs P were 
set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated 
businesses, like BRG, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their 
clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond 
their investment objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, BRG 
needed to have the necessary information for it to be confident that its advice met Mrs Ps 
objectives and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement 
for a regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process. There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes  these were contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2 required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer 
out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to         
make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors 
that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no later 
than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and 
its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out 
to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
COBS 19.1.7 also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension 
opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to 
the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;    
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Ive therefore considered the suitability of BRGs advice to Mrs P in the context of the above 
requirements.
BRGs rationale for transferringMrs P wasnt categorised as an execution only or insistent client. Therefore, BRG could be 
confident that she would be acting upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, Firm B had completed fact finding for Mrs P, upon which 
BRG then based its evaluation of the options available to her. It then set out its assessment 
of her circumstances and objectives. The latter, as set out above, may be summarised as 
follows:
Reshape her benefits to enable her to take an enhanced level of flexible income to 
fund the early years of her retirement.
Lump sum death benefits for Mrs Ps partner.
Maximum amount of tax free cash.
As with the investigator and BRG, Ive noted above within the COBS rules that the starting 
assumption for an assessment of Mrs Ps options was that a transfer would be unsuitable, 
unless it could clearly be demonstrated that it was in her best interests in order to meet 
specific objectives. And so Ill therefore explore these objectives further below.
But before I do so, I think it would be useful to consider the viability of the transfer from a 
financial perspective.
The financial viability of the transfer
BRG undertook a TVAS for comparison purposes to determine the viability of the transfer to 
meet Mrs Ps objectives from a financial perspective. It produced the critical yield required to 
match the benefits provided by the ceding scheme.
The suitability report was issued before the FCAs revised guidance which was released in 
late October 2017, and provided discount rates for levels of growth which were deemed 
achievable for particular time periods until prospective retirement. But before that, similar 
rates were published by this service. As set out by the investigator, businesses werent 
required to reference these when providing advice on transfers, but they would nevertheless 
have been a useful indicator of the type of investment return deemed feasible at the time  
as has also seemingly been accepted by BRG.
The discount rate deemed achievable for the nine years left to the scheme retirement age of 
60 was 3.7% pa. 
The critical yield for retirement at age 60 with the scheme was 7.68%, and was therefore 
higher than both the discount (or growth) rate deemed achievable over the same period, and 
the mid-band growth rate  5% pa  deemed achievable by the regulator. BRG said it 
considered the critical yields to be achievable, given Mrs Ps attitude to investment risk. 
But as with the investigator, Im not persuaded that the critical yield was in fact achievable, 
year on year, for the number of years that Mrs P had until she reached retirement age. And 
as a reminder, these growth rates were required to just match the scheme benefits. There 
needed to be a realistic chance that the benefits of the scheme could be bettered through 
transferring. The transfer needed to be clearly demonstrated to be in Mrs Ps best interests.
And although BRG said in its suitability report that this level of required growth was 
achievable over the term to retirement, given Mrs Ps attitude to risk and the investments 
which would be available to her  and Ive also noted what BRG has said about returns to 
normality - I nevertheless have similar concerns to those expressed by the investigator as to 
the reliability of the risk rating attributed to her. Mrs P may well, as has been asserted by BRG, have been an active participant in the 
assessment of her attitude to investment risk, but nothing about her characteristics, 
circumstances, or experience with investments would be consistent with the level of risk 
appetite attributed to her. Its arguable that one mitigating factor in terms of elevating Mrs Ps 
appetite for risk beyond, say medium, is that she had ten years membership, with a likely 
further ten years up to age 60, of her current employers defined benefit pension scheme. 
And so it might be said that she had some capacity for investment loss. But I dont think this 
would have necessarily made Mrs P keen to take risks with what would have been her 
primary source  at least until the state pension began seven years later - of guaranteed 
pension income.
In my view, its more likely than not that Mrs P held a pragmatic view with regard to 
risk/reward, and may have understood such concepts, but this shouldnt have been 
interpreted as implying any particular appetite for taking investment risk with her pension, 
such that this would justify exposing the majority of her pension provision to investment risk. 
I think its also notable that, in the suitability report prepared by Firm B, Mrs Ps attitude risk 
from the fact finding process seemed to have been assessed as low-medium risk, which 
was then elevated to high-medium risk after shed completed a risk questionnaire. My view 
is that if there was doubt regarding this, the more prudent approach would have been to 
assume the lower risk rating. And this would also have been more consistent with her 
general set of circumstances.
I also note that, in the same risk questionnaire, the Risk and return expectations graph 
indicated that, even with a risk attitude of 6 out of 10 , the expected return per annum 
would be in the region of 3%. 
This is somewhat lower than the gross return of 5% pa which BRG said would sustain Mrs 
Ps income at the same rate as the scheme until she was 99. It was also considerably lower 
than the required critical yield to match the scheme benefits through the guaranteed form of 
an annuity from age 60. 
As such, my view is that the transfer couldnt be justified from a purely financial perspective, 
especially given the valuable guarantees which Mrs P would be relinquishing. 
And this is my view on the basis of the CETV of £306,472. The TVAS appears to have been 
undertaken on this basis, but as far as I can tell, the actual CETV was significantly lower 
than this. So if this was the case, the actual critical yield required to match the scheme 
benefits is therefore likely to have been correspondingly higher still.
But the feasibility of achieving a critical yield alone wouldnt in any case indicate suitability of 
a transfer, as set out in COBS 19.1.7B. And BRG has also itself commented that the basis of 
the recommendation was the benefit to Mrs P in terms of other objectives being met - 
including flexibility, along with the different format of death benefits with a PPP.
Before I assess those in greater detail, I think its firstly fair to say that BRG did provide 
warnings on the guarantees which would be relinquished, but as BRG will be aware, risk 
warnings alone wouldnt render unsuitable advice suitable. And as the investigator pointed 
out, irrespective of the detail contained in a suitability report, this also wouldnt make 
otherwise unsuitable advice suitable. BRG needed to be satisfied, before providing its 
recommendation, that relinquishing the guarantees and taking the investment risk was a 
suitable course of action for Mrs P.
Flexibility in accessing pension benefitsAs Ive said above, BRGs reasoning for the recommended transfer was that Mrs P required 
flexibility of income due to her particular circumstances and objectives. And so Ive given this 
argument careful consideration.
As a preliminary comment, I dont think the type of portfolio into which Mrs P was advised to 
place her transferred funds for the purpose of later flexible access was necessarily 
unsuitable for the risk rating which was attributed to her. Theres nothing inherently 
unsuitable in terms of DFM if this is more likely to produce the required returns and the likely 
benefits wont be outweighed by any additional costs. There may have been issues with the 
DFM after the transfer, but the investment assumption may not have been unreasonable on 
the basis of what was known (notwithstanding what Ive said above about Mrs Ps likely 
attitude to risk, and the type of DFM which should then have been applied).
And as Ive said above, I acknowledge that Mrs P was likely to have understood the principle 
of needing to take some risk to achieve the required reward.
However, I also dont think Mrs P in any case needed to take the associated risks here. In 
terms of the flexibility argument, I understand this to be that Mrs P would have control over 
her pension funds, and could alter the income she withdrew from a flexi-drawdown, 
arrangement to satisfy changing income needs. The suitability report indicated that Mrs P 
would like to access her tax free cash at age 60 without the necessity to also take income  
which wouldnt have been possible within the scheme. 
But its unclear as to why Mrs P would have needed such flexibility, especially given the 
investment risk associated with it, her likely attitude to risk, and apparent lack of any similar 
historical investment which might otherwise indicate a preparedness to take risks with her 
pension income. And its the role of the professional adviser to establish the rationale for 
such flexibility, especially when valuable benefit guarantees are being relinquished.
So Ive then thought about that likely rationale. In the first instance, Ive considered whether 
Mrs P could meet her objective of retiring at age 60 whilst also retaining the valuable 
guarantees offered by the scheme. I note that, in the suitability report, Mrs P was recorded 
as wanting to be able to retire at 60. And as observed by the investigator, the scheme 
retirement age was 60. And so there was no early retirement objective which needed to be 
taken into account.
Therefore, unless there was a realistic prospect of the transferred funds exceeding the 
scheme benefits at age 60, and Mrs P was prepared to take the risk required to achieve that 
 which for the reasons given above I dont think was the case here  the only advantage 
here would be Mrs Ps apparent desire to take the tax free cash without accessing the 
income.
As Ive said above, there was no facility for Mrs P to take tax free cash from the scheme 
without also starting to take an income. But I also dont think this advantage with the 
transferred pension funds was so great as to justify Mrs P relinquishing many years of 
guaranteed benefits accrued in the scheme.
Mrs P may have needed to access the tax free cash without taking an income  but theres 
no specific or detailed objective here, or reasons as to why surplus income might reasonably 
represent a good enough reason to transfer her guaranteed benefits. It was also envisaged 
that her mortgage would be repaid by age 60, or it was in any case noted that she wouldnt 
need to use the tax free cash from this scheme towards its repayment. 
The guarantees attached to the defined benefits would have been of considerable value and 
these benefits shouldnt have been relinquished lightly in favour of flexibility which, as far as I can tell, would have involved Mrs P simply deferring her income. But a surplus of income is 
perhaps an enviable and positive position to be in. And if Mrs P took the tax free cash from 
the scheme benefits at age 60 and found herself with excess income from her guaranteed 
benefits, she could have simply reinvested this as she saw fit. I cant see that, even 
combining all pension income sources, Mrs P is likely to have fallen into a higher rate tax 
bracket in retirement, which might under some circumstances have contributed towards a 
rationale for deferring income.
There may have been the prospect that Mrs P could take the same income from the SIPP 
and not run out of money. But she simply didnt need to take the risk of this not being the 
case, due to investment returns perhaps not achieving the assumed growth rates.
And although BRG has argued that Mrs P wouldnt have been reliant upon these defined 
benefits, and could afford to sustain loses with them, theres simply no compelling reasons 
as to why she should take those risks in the first place. She may have been able to live off 
reduced funds, but the point of the transfer shouldnt have been to place Mrs P in a position 
whereby, if investment returns were lower than expected, she could still afford to live off a 
reduced income. The transfer needed to be demonstrated to be clearly in her best interests. 
But it was unlikely that the SIPP income would be higher than that produced by the scheme. 
And theres really no sound or detailed basis for the flexibility argument, given the 
guarantees which Mrs P would be relinquishing.
I must also re-emphasise, as did the investigator, that Mrs P was still nine years away from 
retirement at 60 at the point of advice. My understanding is that there were no concerns 
about the viability of her ex-employer, or the funding of the pension scheme, but if there 
were, as the professional party, an IFA is tasked with rationally addressing those concerns 
and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available options. 
And so my view here is that Mrs P simply didnt need to make any decisions about 
transferring out her defined benefits at that point. As referenced by the investigator, her 
plans, including retirement, may in any case have changed significantly in the nine 
intervening years between then and Mrs P reaching age 60. BRG may have a point about 
CETVs perhaps reducing in the future, but this couldnt be known at the time of the advice  
it was speculation. And this only really in any case becomes relevant if Mrs P concluded that 
she wanted to transfer out at a later date. On the basis of what was known and recorded 
about her at the time of the advice, its difficult to reasonably envisage what might have 
prompted her to do so. And as Mrs P has confirmed, she has since married her partner, 
which, whilst admittedly not known at the time, might have been a reasonably foreseeable 
potential outcome. In which case, the spouses benefits within the scheme then become 
relevant and represent an additional reason for Mrs P to not transfer.
But if there were later flexibility requirements which for whatever reason meant that a 
transfer out of the scheme was in Mrs Ps best interests, these could have been addressed 
nearer to, or at, the point of Mrs Ps retirement. Any concerns over potential falls in future 
CETVs wouldnt in my view mean that Mrs P should reasonably transfer nine years from her 
intended retirement age, especially when the reasons for requiring flexibility - and why this 
would justify her relinquishing guaranteed benefits in favour of this - hadnt been articulated 
beyond simply separating tax free cash and income.
And so on the basis of what Ive said above, it follows that I dont think the requirement 
around flexibility of income was a sufficient reason for Mrs P to transfer her deferred benefits 
 and certainly not with nine years still left to her retirement. Any such needs could have 
been addressed nearer to, or at, that point.
Death benefitsOn the basis that Mrs P was at the time unmarried and with no financially dependent 
children, she was recorded as being keen, in the event of her death, for death benefits to be 
paid to her partner as a lump sum.
And its fair to say that, after the transfer, a lump sum would be payable to her 
beneficiary/ies, rather than in the form of spouses/dependants pensions from the scheme.
But I have concerns about this as a reason for transferring Mrs Ps benefits. Firstly, as noted 
by the investigator, she had no particular health issues which would mean that death 
benefits, or any likelihood to not benefit from a pension income derived of her scheme 
membership upon retirement for a reasonable amount of time, were of concern at that point. 
Secondly, as also noted by the investigator, the accrued pension provision is intended to 
provide for an individuals retirement rather than a desire to leave a lump sum legacy for that 
individuals partner or other dependants. The financial wellbeing of Mrs Ps partner would 
inevitably have been a priority for Mrs P, but the recommendation needed to be given in the 
context of  primarily - Mrs Ps best interests in terms of her retirement needs. And this was 
seemingly echoed in the suitability report as follows:
Although you have a partner, you only wished me to consider your own financial planning 
needs and only in respect of the pension transfer itself.
Had Mrs P married her partner, which she has confirmed she did, they would also have been 
entitled to a spouses pension equivalent to half of that which would be payable to her. As 
referenced above, it might reasonably be BRGs position that this couldnt have been known 
in 2016, but this is entirely consistent with the point above  Mrs P was nine years from 
retirement and, given that she had a partner, it certainly wasnt beyond the realms of 
possibility that she would marry before she retired.
Notwithstanding the above, a desire to leave a lump sum legacy for her beneficiaries cannot 
reasonably have subjugated Mrs Ps own personal requirement to benefit from her pension. 
And there was no detail about why a lump sum would have been so important to Mrs Ps 
partner that it would justify a transfer of Mrs Ps guaranteed benefits.
I therefore think that it was more likely than not an entirely understandable desire to leave a 
lump sum financial legacy to her beneficiaries, but not essential, and certainly not of 
sufficient importance, given the other death benefits which would be available if she married, 
to justify Mrs P compromising the security of her own retirement.
A lump sum may have its appeal  and I recognise that in some situations the ability to pass 
a lump sum to beneficiaries could be particularly advantageous when compared to an 
income stream through a spouses or dependants pension, but I dont think the right 
conditions for this to have outweighed the benefits of Mrs P retaining her deferred benefits 
were present here.
The objective to leave a lump sum legacy should have been properly weighed against the 
guaranteed benefits Mrs P was relinquishing, and BRG should have advised her that her 
own financial security in retirement took priority here.
So for the reasons given, I dont think the prospect of a lump sum benefit for Mrs Ps partner 
by way of transferring to the SIPP constituted sufficient reason to transfer and lose otherwise 
valuable guaranteed benefits for Mrs P. 
What should BRG have done  and would it have made a difference to Mrs Ps decision?My view is that it was the responsibility of BRG to explain to Mrs P why she didnt need to 
make any irreversible decision on relinquishing valuable scheme pension guarantees at that 
time. As Ive said above, there were no scheme funding issues, and so no imminent 
prospect of her scheme benefits entering the PPF, which would have ruled out a later 
transfer. 
Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service provided to Mrs P was a balanced 
appraisal of the options available to her. And looking at those options, her objective of 
retiring at age 60 was in any case matched by the scheme retirement age.
Further, for the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility of 
income outweighed the guaranteed benefits in the scheme, and Im satisfied that Mrs Ps 
income needs could have been comfortably met by accessing her two forms of defined 
benefit accruals by the time she came to retirement. Any excess income could have been 
reinvested as Mrs P saw fit. The available evidence simply doesnt support the position as to 
why flexibility would have been a sufficiently compelling reason for Mrs P to relinquish 
valuable benefit guarantees  especially with nine years to retirement still remaining. 
Tax free cash for the purpose of mortgage repayment (if indeed required) would have been 
available both from her accrued defined benefit schemes. Death benefits were also payable 
from the defined benefit scheme, albeit in a different format from those available from the 
PPP. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think these should have been a more 
important consideration than Mrs Ps own retirement guarantees which shed be 
relinquishing through the transfer.
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
And as the critical yield was higher than the discount rate and the mid band growth rate set 
out by regulator, I think it was unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match 
the scheme benefits. This position is supported by the graph of the returns which could be 
expected from an individual with a high-medium risk rating, even if Mrs P could reasonably 
be attributed this, which for the reasons given, I think is unlikely . 
And whilst I accept that the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the 
suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced by what BRG considers to have been the overriding 
justifications for proceeding with the transfer, for the reasons given above. 
Taking account of Mrs Ps circumstances, including her likely true attitude to risk, her 
objectives and the guarantees which the scheme offered, along with the critical yield to 
match the scheme benefits and her ability to retire at the desired age of 60 with a full 
pension, my view is that BRG should have advised against the transfer.
And I think that, had this happened, Mrs P would have followed that advice and not 
transferred her benefits to the PPP.
Summary
For the reasons given, my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads 
to a clear conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mrs P, nor 
was it in her best interests. The key contributing factors here are: Mrs Ps attitude to risk and 
its incompatibility with the type of investment risk which would have likely been required to 
match the scheme benefits  a failing under COBS 19.1.7. Furthermore, Mrs P was able to 
retire at age 60 with full scheme benefits, and the need for flexibility hasnt been either 
articulated or demonstrated to be so compelling that it would have reasonably justified 
relinquishing the scheme guarantees. Mrs P also didnt need to make any decision about transferring her benefits, especially on the basis of prospective flexibility, with nine years still 
to go to retirement.
My view is that, taking account of the critical yields, Mrs Ps likely attitude to risk with regard 
to her pension funds and matching that with the likely corresponding investment returns, it 
was unlikely that the benefits available from the scheme could be bettered through the 
transfer. As the other reasons for transferring were insufficiently compelling, when 
considered against the valuable benefits being relinquished, as required by COBS 2.1.1R 
and COBS 19.1.6, it would - or should - then have drawn, and conveyed, the conclusion that 
transferring wasnt in Mrs Ps best interests. 
Putting things right
My aim to is put Mrs P, as closely as possible, into the position shed be but for Better 
Retirement Group Ltds unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mrs Ps deferred benefits isnt 
possible. Therefore, Better Retirement Group Ltd should undertake a redress calculation in 
line with the pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
The calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the date 
of the actual calculation. Better Retirement Group Ltd may wish to contact the Department 
for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ps contribution history to the State Earnings 
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss 
should if possible be paid into Mrs Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax free cash and 75% would have been 
taxed according to Mrs Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs P within 90 days of the date 
Better Retirement Group Ltd receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes Better Retirement Group Ltd to pay compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Better Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mrs P the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Better 
Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mrs P any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Better 
Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mrs P any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Better Retirement Group Ltd pays Mrs P the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs P.
If Mrs P accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Better Retirement Group Ltd. 
My recommendation is not binding on Better Retirement Group Ltd. Further, its unlikely that 
Mrs P can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs P may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Better Retirement Group Ltd should 
undertake the above calculation and, if it demonstrates a loss, compensate Mrs P 
accordingly.       
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman