DRN-1370632
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited declined her claim under her home emergency 
policy. 
All references to Aviva include the agents it has appointed to handle claims.
What happened
On 15 October 2019 Mrs S asked a third party contractor to replace two radiators at her 
property. The contractor was unable to reinstate the heating or hot water and asked Mrs S to 
pay for a powerflush which would have cost £2,500 upfront to try and resolve the issue. Mrs 
S refused and decided to contact Aviva. 
Aviva sent out an engineer to Mrs Ss property the following morning but he was delayed 
and arrived late in the afternoon. He said he didnt think a powerflush was needed but he 
couldnt complete the work without the help of an assistant. Avivas engineer left and said he 
would complete a report. After waiting for the report for a few days and chasing Aviva, Mrs S 
decided to get her own private engineer to help. Her engineer discovered a cloth in the 
system which was blocking the water systems to the boiler. Aviva then contacted Mrs S and 
said it wouldnt cover her claim because it had been caused by third party interference. 
Unhappy with this decision Mrs S made a complaint on 19 October 2019. She said the error 
in sending an engineer and the subsequent delays caused by Aviva had left her without 
heating for four days when her and her husband were unwell. She added that as Aviva 
attended the property it should be liable for dealing with the emergency.   
Aviva investigated the complaint and issued a final response letter  dated 25 October 2019. 
Aviva said it was sorry the engineer was late for the appointment and for the delay and 
inconvenience that was caused. It also said it shouldnt have sent engineers to the property 
as Mrs S had told it about the work which had been done by the third party. So it offered to 
pay the call out charge of a private engineer totalling £144 in recognition of the way it had 
handled this claim. 
Mrs S remained unhappy so she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
reviewed the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said Aviva wasnt liable to pay 
the repair bill of £1,100 because the terms and conditions said it isnt liable for costs caused 
by third party interference. So he felt it was fair that Aviva had offered to refund the cost of 
the call out charge to Mrs S.  
Mrs S disagreed. She said it was the cloth that caused the problem with the system. And the 
third party contractor had written a statement to say it wasnt them who introduced the cloth 
into the system which was found well away from the work it did. She feels Aviva failed to 
handle the claim properly and left her without heating during a cold time of the year.
So this complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs S feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In order for me to ask Aviva to meet the cost of fixing Mrs Ss heating system I would need to 
be satisfied this cost is covered by her home emergency policy.  
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ss policy say she isnt covered for any defect, damage or 
breakdown caused by third party interference.  
I note both parties have mentioned that a piece of cloth was found in a pipe and was the 
likely cause of the issue with Mrs Ss heating at the time. I can also see - from the report by 
Aviva's engineer - that the feed and expansion tank had been disconnected and a filling loop 
had been added. He felt it was unsafe to attempt to refill the property without an assistant 
and that Mrs S had received a poor service from the third party contractor. 
After reviewing all the evidence, Im satisfied  on balance  its more likely than not the cloth 
got into the system after Mrs S asked the private contractor to replace her radiators. Mrs S 
has said her system was working before the private contractor was called. And she wanted 
two radiators - which werent giving off heat - replaced.  Mrs S feels the cloth was the likely 
cause of the issue. But it also appears from the engineers report that the private contractor 
hadnt left the heating system in a working condition before the cloth was discovered. And a 
lot more work was needed to repair her system when Avivas engineer arrived as a result.
So Im satisfied that the issue with the heating system and what Mrs S asked Aviva to 
resolve was caused by third party interference. Because the policy specifically excludes this 
type of event, I cant fairly ask Aviva to accept the claim here. 
I note Aviva has accepted it shouldve told Mrs S earlier that it wouldnt be able to help. As a 
result it has apologised and offered to pay Mrs S for the cost of calling out a private engineer 
(£144). I can understand why Mrs S was frustrated with the delays in the engineer attending 
her property and then the delay in waiting for the report. I think overall £144 is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman