DRN-4465116
The complaint
Mr R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) lent irresponsibly when providing 
him with a personal loan.
What happened
In August 2010, Mr R applied in-branch to NWB for a graduate loan of £18,000. NWB 
agreed to provide the loan over a term of 120 months.
In 2020 Mr R complained to NWB that it had lent to him irresponsibly when he applied for the 
loan. He said he was unemployed and it was unaffordable for him at that time. NWB didnt 
agree and, unhappy with NWBs response, Mr R complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and told Mr R they didnt believe NWB 
had lent to him irresponsibly. The investigator felt, among other things, that there wasnt 
enough evidence to show the lending was unaffordable for him.   
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings. As the investigator couldnt resolve the 
complaint informally, it was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Mr Rs complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, due to the length of time thats passed since Mr R took out the loan and that 
NWB stopped offering the product generally in 2011, the information thats still available from 
the sales very limited. I think this is understandable and that this shouldnt automatically 
count against either party, including NWB. 
As I understand it, Mr R was intending to continue his studies in 2010 after graduating from 
university, which is why he took out this loan. He wasnt employed and was living with his 
parents. On the face of it, I can see how it could appear that Mr R might have had difficulties 
making the monthly payments in those circumstances. However, it was a feature of this 
graduate loan  available, I gather, only to those studying for a legal or medical qualification 
 that no repayments were to be made until the 20th month of the 120-month term. The idea 
being this would allow Mr R time to complete his studies and defer having to start repaying 
the loan until he was fully qualified and in paid work. 
From experience, I dont think these loan features are unusual and they seem fairly typical of 
the types of student and graduate loans available on the open market.
All these years later, I cant be sure what was said at the time of the sale or how the loan 
was presented to Mr R by NWBs staff. But I can see that the terms were set out in the loan 
agreement Mr R signed in August 2010. So, Im satisfied Mr R ought broadly to have been 
aware of how the loan would operate.
That said, NWB had certain responsibilities to Mr R in providing the loan notwithstanding the 
product features Ive mentioned. NWB was required to complete proportionate affordability 
checks prior to advancing credit to Mr R. Whats considered proportionate will vary in each 
case as it is unique to each lending decision. In deciding how thorough a check should be, 
NWB needed to consider things such as (but not limited to) the amount of credit being 
advanced, the type of credit, the size and frequency of the repayments, the cost of the 
borrowing and Mr Rs personal circumstances.  
As Ive said, Im restricted in the information I can consider, as much of the paperwork from 
2010 is simply no longer available. I cant, for example, see what if any checks NWB carried 
out. This makes it very difficult for me to find that NWB did anything wrong or that it should 
have done more in that regard. I note that Mr R says he wasnt working at the time, but I 
dont think that would be unusual for an applicant for a graduate loan such as this one. And 
no repayments needed to be made until, in theory, well after Mr R had finished his studies 
and started working. Which means I dont think hes lost out because of that.
Ive gone on to consider what the remainder of Mr Rs financial situation looked like in 2010, 
and what NWB might have discovered through proportionate checks made back then. But 
this only tells part of the story since NWB couldnt have known for sure whether the loan 
would continue to be affordable for him when he was due to start repaying it 20 months later. 
What it did know was that Mr R was eligible for the loan and that he was due to start a 
requisite course of studies. In any event, I havent seen anything of major concern in the 
bank transactions Mr Rs provided in the lead up to the loan application. They support that 
he wasnt working, as already discussed, but for the reasons given I dont think that has a 
significant bearing here given the nature of the loan and the initial deferred period.
Its impossible to say with certainty that, back in 2010, the monthly payment of around £280 
would definitely have been affordable for Mr R from the 20th month of the loan. But I dont 
think that was an unreasonable conclusion to draw given the qualification Mr R had already 
gained prior to applying for the loan, and the further qualification he intended to obtain 
afterwards. It would have been fair for NWB to assume, in all the circumstances, that Mr R 
would have gone on to secure paid employment by month 20, at least to the extent that 
paying back £280 a month wouldnt have been a financial stretch for him.
Taking everything into account, I dont consider it was unfair for NWB to lend to Mr R as it 
did in 2010.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman