DRN-1349274
 
The complaint
Mrs D says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
her.                           
Background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Sunny provided to Mrs D between April and 
August 2016. Mrs D borrowed between £100 and £400 and each loan was repaid over six 
monthly instalments. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint and thought Sunnys checks for the loans 
went far enough. Mrs D disagreed and asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman. 
So, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs D could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Ds complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Sunny has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mrs D about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of £1,500. Sunny also checked Mrs Ds normal 
monthly living costs. Mrs D declared these to be between £624 and £1,001 per month. 
Sunny says it also searched Mrs Ds credit file. Ive seen a copy of those results and there 
werent any recent adverse entries like defaults, county court judgements (CCJs) or 
excessive borrowing from short-term lenders recorded on it at the time each of the loans 
were taken out.
Mrs Ds history of borrowing with this lender was relatively early on  she only borrowed from 
Sunny four times over a four-month period. And even though she had to make six monthly 
repayments, the highest repayment would have appeared affordable based on the 
information she declared to Sunny. And there wasnt anything in the information Mrs D 
provided which would have given Sunny cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of 
Sunny to have relied on what Mrs D told it. 
I think the time Mrs D had been indebted to Sunny and the information shed provided to it 
had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for Sunny to carry out. 
Given these, I think the checks Sunny carried out before lending the loans went far enough 
and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth checks. 
The information Mrs D declared to Sunny at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think Sunny was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Sunny knew about      
Mrs D, I wouldnt have expected Sunny to verify the information Mrs D gave it. This therefore 
means, I cant say that its done something wrong in lending Mrs D these loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mrs D, but I hope my explanation will 
help her understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Ds complaint and make no award against Elevate Credit International 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman