DRN-3345381
The complaint
Mrs D complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) misled her about its 
fees causing her financial loss.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in this case dated 4 February 2022, where I said I wasnt 
minded to uphold the complaint. The background to this complaint was set out in my 
provisional decision as follows:
On the recommendation of an SJP adviser (the adviser) Mrs D invested a total of £756,502 
in one of its Investment Bonds (the IB). Her initial investment was made in 2014 for 
£146,500. She then made two further investments in October 2015 for £400,000 and in April 
2018 for £210,001.
In 2020 Mrs D decided to change to a new provider, who Ill refer to as B, who wrote to SJP 
asking for details of her investments. In its response, SJP listed the Initial Advice Charges 
for all three investments in her IB. This showed initial advice charges were made in 2014 for 
£6,692, in 2015 for £18,000 and in 2018 for £9,450.
Mrs D complained about the initial advice charges applied for 2015 and 2018 because she 
said the SJP adviser had told her these fees would be waived.
SJP said its adviser had at no point agreed to waive the initial advice charges but had 
agreed to waive the Early Withdrawal Charges (EWC). SJP said this was supported by the 
documents that Mrs D was given in 2015 and 2018 which included a key facts document 
personalised for each of her investments.
Mrs D disagreed and referred her complaint to our service. She remained unhappy about the 
initial advice charges and about the impact this has had on her tax liability.
Our investigator considered SJP had correctly charged Mrs D because it had told her about 
the initial advice charges from the outset. She also thought that SJP had clearly told Mrs D 
about the tax implications that its advice fees could have. However, our investigator thought 
SJP could have been clearer with its explanations when addressing Mrs Ds concerns and 
thought it had caused her unnecessary confusion. She recommended that SJP pay Mrs D 
£350 for the confusion and upset this had caused her.
Mrs D disagreed with the investigators view. In summary, she made the following points:
SJP hasnt acted in line with the regulators Principles of Business such as to treat 
customers fairly and to provide clear, fair and not misleading information;
The detail of the charges that applied were not explained in the suitability report nor 
any subsequent emails from the adviser. She considers this was deliberately 
misleading;
The recommended redress isnt a fair reflection of her loss;
SJP didnt make it clear the fees would be using up 5% of her cumulative withdrawal 
tax allowance.
In support of her case, Mrs D highlighted correspondence from the adviser which included 
the following:
An email dated 29 September 2015 from the adviser said that there would be no 
initial charge on her investment and went on to say: To clarify, £400,000 is invested, 
the total ongoing charges known as annual management charges are 1.5% per 
annum plus external management charges which are detailed on page 3 of the Key 
Facts Document.
The adviser also said in his email dated 29 September 2015 that: As we do not have 
an initial charge on your investment we do have an encashment charge if you were 
to cash in your investments in total in the first 6 years. This is 6% in year 1, reducing 
to 1% in year 6 and zero thereafter.
In an email dated 9 October 2015, the adviser confirmed there would be no initial 
charge. He offered on this occasion to waive the EWC.
In the letter dated 14 October 2015 the adviser said that: There will be no initial 
charge from your investment of £400,000, namely £400,000 is invested. The adviser 
also confirmed the waiver of the EWC.
In relation to the 2018 investment, the adviser said in an email dated 6 April 2018 
that: To clarify, any additional investment into your Investment Bond have 100% 
allocation, namely, if £300,000 were invested, £300,000 is allocated to Units, there is 
no additional charge. As there is no initial charge, we do however have encashment 
charges, on a sliding scale of 6% in year 1, reducing to 1% in year 6, if you were to 
encash the policy. I have agreed to waive these potential fees.
Neither party provided any further information to my provisional decision but both 
acknowledged it had been received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, neither party has provided any further evidence. Having considered 
everything again, Im not upholding this complaint. My reasons for not upholding this 
complaint, as set out in my provisional decision, are as follows:
The starting point for this complaint is the key features and key facts documents which 
Mrs D was provided with at the time of the advice. Amongst other things, the key facts 
document dated 21 September 2015, which was personalised to Mrs Ds situation, said 
under the heading What are the charges? the following:
  When you invest with us you pay us charges for our advice and charges for the products 
we recommend. Details of these charges are set out below. The total of these charges is 
equivalent to an Annual Management Charge of 1.5% each year coupled with an early 
withdrawal charge of 6% in the first year reducing to nil after 6 years for each contribution 
you make.
Under the heading How much will the advice cost? the key facts said (bold is SJPs 
emphasis):
 Our advice is not free.The cost of the initial advice and our services is 4.5% of the amount you invest and 
will be £18,000.
Similarly, the key facts dated 16 April 2018 said: The cost of the initial advice and our 
services is 4.5% of the amount you invest and will be £9,450. Like the 2015 key facts, 
the 2018 document also listed the other charges that applied to Mrs Ds investment.
I can see that Mrs D has been charged £18,000 and £9,450 for the advice she received in 
2015 and 2018 respectively. This is what the key facts said she would be charged and these 
documents were provided to her before she agreed to take out the investment. If Mrs D 
hadnt gone ahead with the recommendations she would not have been charged for this 
advice but as she did accept the recommendations, I dont think SJP are wrong for charging 
her for the initial advice it gave her in 2015 and in 2018.
As noted above, Mrs D was also provided with the IBs key features document which also 
set out the charges that applied to her investments. Under Our advice is not free the key 
features gave an example of an investment of £100,000. It said that in this scenario the initial 
advice charge would be £4,500, which represented 4.5% of £100,000. This document also 
noted that: The costs of our initial advice and ongoing advice are paid for out of your 
investment. The specific amounts of the advice charges are set out in the personalised 
illustration that we will provide and discuss with you.
Mrs D has said she was only expecting to be charged £4,500 for the first investment advice 
in 2014 but this figure was clearly only given as an example in the key features. The key 
facts dated 20 January 2014 gave Mrs D the exact amount she would be charged as £6,692. 
I can see this is what she was ultimately charged, so again, I dont think SJP has done 
anything wrong in this regard.
So, I think Mrs D was provided with clear, fair and not misleading information about the initial 
advice charge as well as all other charges affecting her IB. I also note that the personalised 
illustrations contained in the key facts would have been discussed with Mrs D. And that in 
each of these documents was the exact amount Mrs D was liable to pay for the advice.
Based on what the adviser said in his correspondence with Mrs D, which Ive summarised 
above, Mrs D says she was misled by the adviser saying there would be no initial charge. 
She took this to mean that there wouldnt be any initial charges including the initial advice 
charge.
Whilst I understand where Mrs D is coming from, I dont think the adviser made any offer to 
waive the initial advice charge. What the correspondence summarised above shows is that 
there would be no initial charge levied on Mrs Ds investment meaning that 100% of her 
funds would be allocated to the IB units. I think the adviser made this clear in his 
correspondence to Mrs D. And from what I can see this did happen - the Additional 
Investment Schedules from 2015 and 2018 both show the full amounts of Mrs Ds 
investments of £400,000 and £210,001 respectively, being used to purchase units in the IB.
Mrs D says the suitability letters should have mentioned the initial advice charges. But I can 
see the adviser did refer to the Key Facts about our Services and Costs in his suitability 
letter dated 12 October 2015. In this letter the adviser said a copy of the key facts and key 
features had been provided and discussed with Mrs D. Both of these documents provided 
information about the initial advice charges. And as Ive said, the key facts set out the exact 
amounts Mrs D would be liable to pay for this service.Mrs D also says she remembers discussing the issue with the adviser and this is why he 
sent her a subsequent email on 15 October 2015. Whilst Ive taken on board what Mrs D has 
said, she is recalling a call that happened more than five years ago. From what I can see the 
follow up email didnt say that the initial advice fee would be waived. The only fee that was 
said to be waived was the EWC.
Overall, Im satisfied that SJP did provide Mrs D clear, fair and not misleading information 
about all of the fees that applied to her investments including the initial advice charge. I dont 
think SJP misled her about this, so I do think it has met with the regulatory duties that Mrs D 
has highlighted to this service.
I also note what Mrs D says about certain sections of the letter dated 12 October 2015 being 
fabrications. She also questions the suitability of the advice she was given in that letter. But 
Mrs D hasnt complained to SJP about these issues and Ive therefore, not considered these 
as part of this complaint.
I note our investigator considered SJP had provided confusing information to Mrs D about its 
fees, particularly when she (Mrs D) raised her concerns. But from what I can see, what SJP 
said was accurate. It told Mrs D the following:
However, the effect of the product and advice charges combined is equivalent in total to:
 The Annual Management Charge; and 
 An Early Withdrawal Charge (EWC) which applies to withdrawals and encashments made 
during the first six years on a reducing scale.
These two charges, together with the cost of managing and maintaining the underlying 
investments, are the total charges in respect of your IB. The costs of the initial and ongoing 
advice form part of these total charges and are not in addition to them. Therefore, as [the 
SJP adviser] agreed to waive the Early Withdrawal Charges, this is, in effect, an offer to 
waive any initial charges.
Whilst I know Mrs D doesnt think this was particularly clear, I dont consider SJP has said 
anything wrong or misleading. As the adviser agreed to waive the EWC this was, in effect, 
an offer to waive the initial charges as Mrs D would be able to withdraw her funds without 
any penalty. I note that SJP went on to clarify its position with Mrs D on several occasions. 
So, I cant fairly say that its response deliberately caused her confusion.
In terms of the tax implications of the initial advice charge, I can see this was explained to 
Mrs D in the key features document where it said:
Similarly, if you pay tax above the basic rate you may have to pay tax on any amount
withdrawn, including income distributions and the cost of our advice, in excess of your yearly 
allowance of 5% of your initial and any additional investments. You can carry forward any 
unused part of the 5% allowance to future years.
This information was repeated in the suitability letter dated 12 October 2015 which said: 
The advice fees referred to in the Services and Costs Disclosure Document will use part of 
your 5% tax deferred allowance. I know Mrs D thinks the adviser could have done more to 
make this clear to her, but Im satisfied SJP has provided clear, fair and not misleading about 
the impact the advice fees could have on her tax deferred allowance.
For all these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate Mrs D will be 
disappointed with this outcome.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman