DRN-2890950
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say their mortgage was mis-sold. They say they shouldnt have been sold a 
pension-backed interest-only mortgage and should have had a repayment mortgage instead. 
Theyve also complained about the service theyve received from Barclays Bank UK PLC 
since their mortgage term ended in 2017. They say Barclays sent a field agent to visit them 
at home without warning, and theyre unhappy about how Barclays dealt with Mrs D on the 
phone.   
Whilst the account was previously with a different lender, its now with Barclays so thats the 
name Ill use in this decision. Any reference to Barclays in this decision should be taken to 
mean the other lender where appropriate.
What happened
I issued a decision earlier this month setting out which parts of this complaint we could and 
couldnt consider. I said that we couldnt consider Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about the sale of 
the mortgage, but that we could consider the service theyd received from Barclays in 
respect of the field agent visit and the call.
Barclays had upheld Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, saying it should have notified them in 
advance of the field agents visit. For that omission it offered them £150 compensation, 
which Mr and Mrs D turned down. It didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about the call.
Our investigator said that he felt Barclayss offer of £150 for not notifying Mr and Mrs D in 
advance of the field agents visit was fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree and so 
it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses.
I cant consider Mr and Mrs Ds payment proposals or the potential legal action as part of this 
complaint, all Im able to consider are the complaints that Barclays responded to in April and 
June 2019 and those relate to the lack of notification about the visit from the field agent and 
the call Mrs D had with Barclays that she was unhappy about.
The mortgage term ended in early 2017 and Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage remains outstanding. 
I appreciate how Mr and Mrs D must be feeling as this is their home and theyve said they 
have no way to repay the full outstanding mortgage in one go (without selling their home), 
but Barclays is entitled to instruct a field agent in these circumstances. We would always 
expect a lender to work with the borrower to try and come to an agreement for the 
outstanding amount to be repaid and a visit from a field agent can be a useful part of that, 
especially in circumstances like this where the consumers have health concerns as it means 
the agent can be given information to provide to the lender, rather than the consumer 
needing to contact the lender and provide it directly themselves.
Having considered everything that happened Im satisfied Barclays did nothing wrong when 
it arranged for a field agent to visit Mr and Mrs D at home. That said, Barclays has accepted 
it should have given Mr and Mrs D prior notification of that visit, and for that omission it has 
apologised and offered £150 compensation.
Ive looked at all the contact notes and correspondence on file. Ive also taken into account 
Mr and Mrs Ds health concerns. Were not the regulator, and weve no power to fine or 
punish a business. Barclays cant take back what happened, and what I would expect it to do 
is apologise for its mistake in not notifying Mr and Mrs D about the visit and pay some 
compensation. Taking everything into account Im satisfied the offer of £150 made by 
Barclays was fair and reasonable for its omission when it didnt notify Mr and Mrs D in 
advance about the visit from the field agent. 
Mr and Mrs D are in a difficult situation, and understandably theyve found this all very 
upsetting. That can lead into some interactions being more difficult than they otherwise 
would be. Mrs D complained to Barclays that shed found a call handler rude, and that they 
were asking personal questions. 
Ive listened to that call very carefully and in its entirety and Im satisfied the call handler 
remained professional throughout. As Mrs D had mentioned a recent hospital visit the call 
handler asked if there were any changes to Mrs Ds health that Barclays needed to consider. 
Discussing health concerns is never an easy matter, and from listening to the call it doesnt 
sound like the call handler pushed Mrs D to disclose information that she wasnt comfortable 
to give, or that the call handler wouldnt have accepted it if Mrs D said she didnt want to 
discuss it. It was a long call and from an independent standpoint Im satisfied the call handler 
was trying to assist Mrs D, as there was confusion about what had happened and what was 
happening. Having listened to the call, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied the offer of £150 made by Barclays 
Bank UK PLC in its response to the complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
leave it to Mr and Mrs D to decide if now  on reflection  they want to contact Barclays 
directly to accept that offer. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman