DRN-3080548
The complaint
Mr U complains that TSB Bank plc unfairly recorded a default on his credit file.
 
What happened
Mr U opened a loan with TSB in 2012. In 2017 the loan fell into arrears and Mr U was 
referred to TSBs Collections Team. A debt advice charity (S) contacted TSB on Mr Us 
behalf and agreed a payment plan for £218 a month but the first payment was missed. It was 
made up at the end of April 2017. 
TSB says S next got in touch on Mr Us behalf in September 2017 and asked it to accept 
payments of £218 a month from October 2017. A payment arrangement was agreed. But in 
December 2017 S got in touch with TSB again on Mr Us behalf and asked it to agree a new 
payment arrangement that would mean interest and charges would no longer be applied to 
the loan. 
TSB agreed but says when a payment arrangement of that nature is accepted it closes the 
loan account and records a default on the borrowers credit file. Mr U made payments via S 
of £136 a month and in February 2020 increased them to £141. In March 2021 Mr U paid 
£402 and says he thought the loan balance was fully repaid at that point. 
TSB says a remaining balance of £890.51 remains outstanding and that it hasnt told Mr U 
the loan balance has been fully repaid. 
Mr U says he applied for a loan with another business but was declined due to adverse 
information recorded on his credit file by TSB. Mr U complained and asked TSB to amend 
his credit file. 
TSB issued its final response but didnt agree an error had been made. TSB confirmed an 
outstanding balance remained and didnt agree to make any changes to the information it 
reported to the credit reference agencies. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Us complaint but thought TSB had dealt with it 
fairly. Mr U asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The normal monthly payment for Mr Us loan was £346, which included interest. Mr U 
instructed S to act for him and agree payment plans with TSB as he wasnt able to maintain 
the normal monthly payment. S asked TSB to accept £218 a month, which it agreed to do. 
But in December 2017 S asked for a new arrangement that would mean no further interest 
could be applied to the loan balance. S offered £136, substantially less than the existing 
arrangement and normal monthly payment. 
TSB says when it agrees to stop charging interest to a debt it takes the decision to close the 
loan and record a default. TSB agreed to accept a lower monthly payment of £136 in 
recognition of what S told it about Mr Us circumstances and I think that was a positive step. 
At that point, the original loan terms hadnt been maintained and I think its fair for TSB to 
reflect that in the information it reports to the credit reference agencies. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr U but I dont agree TSB made a mistake when it closed his loan and reported 
a default on his credit file. 
I can see Mr U thought the loan balance was fully repaid and has sent us a statement from 
S. But TSB has provided its own statement that shows the payments Mr U made to the loan 
since he entered the payment arrangements. Our investigator has already set out the 
calculations showing how the outstanding balance remains so I wont repeat that here. But 
Im satisfied that Mr U hasnt repaid the outstanding balance in full. I agree with TSB and the 
investigator that an outstanding balance of £890.51 remains, for the same reasons. 
I understand the default and arrears information will remain on Mr Us credit file for six years 
from February 2018. But as that accurately reflects the circumstances under which his loan 
was closed, I dont agree its unfair for TSB to record that information on Mr Us credit file. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr U but as I havent found TSB has made a mistake or treated him 
unfairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman