DRN-3748798
The complaint
Ms C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund her for transactions she says she didnt 
authorise. Shed like the amounts refunded.
What happened
Ms C has a current account with Lloyds. In October 2015 she wrote to the bank to say that 
there were transactions on her account that didnt make sense to her. The bank attempted to 
contact her, and then wrote to ask for a list of any specific transactions she was concerned 
about. In January 2016 she wrote back highlighting many ATM withdrawals on her 
statements. Lloyds responded in March 2016 asking Ms C to contact their fraud department 
to discuss these further.
In December 2020 Ms C raised a complaint with Barclays about a large loss of funds 
between 2014 and 2018. She explained that she had attempted to raise the issue with 
Lloyds through various channels but had not been pleased with several responses. She felt 
there were many ATM transactions she didnt recognise, and she had had various financial 
documents and cards stolen. She realised it had taken a long time for this to be brought to 
her attention, but mentioned she had been suffering from ill health, and had been struggling 
with full time education. 
Lloyds responded in February 2021 but declined to refund any transactions. They could see 
Ms C had contacted them on several occasions about unrecognised activity, but they had 
been unsure which transactions were unrecognised. They said when raising fraud claims 
they go back a maximum of 13 months. They said theyd consider any exceptional 
circumstances, but theyd also need to know exactly which transactions she wanted to report 
as fraudulent. But they did pay her £50 compensation for a delay in responding to her.
Ms C referred her complaint to our service. But our investigator didnt think Lloyds needed to 
do anything further. They said Lloyds account terms said that the bank would not refund 
payments reported to them more than 13 months after it was made. The investigator said as 
Ms C hadnt contacted them with a clear list of transactions within 13 months, they could not 
take any further action. The investigator felt Lloyds had complied with terms, and their 
regulatory obligations, so didnt think theyd been unfair.
The investigator did get Ms C to provide a list of transactions she disputed and gave this to 
Lloyds, but the bank declined to look in to these further. The investigator thought this was 
reasonable. Ms C disagreed.
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulations in place are the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs). Across the 
period of Ms Cs complaint there are two sets of regulations (2009 and 2017). But both 
regulations say that a consumer is only entitled to a refund for unauthorised transactions if 
they report them to their bank without undue delay, and no later than 13 months after the 
transaction.
This is reflected in the terms of Ms Cs Lloyds account, where the bank say they wont refund 
transactions which took place over 13 months from when theyre reported. The expectation 
here is that a consumer would be expected to manage their account effectively, and if they 
notice a transaction which they dont recognise to report it without delay. Theres also an 
expectation that the consumer should provide information to the business to help them 
investigate any potential fraud.
Ive reviewed the correspondence between Ms C and Lloyds. While I can see Ms C has 
raised concerns about the balance on her account, she doesnt provide specific transactions 
she would like to report as fraud in her earliest letters. She instead talks about the balance 
being lower than expected. In the circumstances its reasonable for Lloyds to ask for specific 
transactions. 
When these were provided by Ms C several months later these appear to be ATM 
withdrawals from 2015 highlighted on paper statements. I think Lloyds could have been 
more proactive at this point in investigating these  but I can also see these were mixed up 
in amongst undisputed spending on her debit card. And there was no suggestion Miss C had 
repeatedly lost her card. From Ms Cs letter it would be difficult at the time to draw the 
conclusion these were unauthorised transactions. 
I can see why Lloyds would invite her to contact them to discuss this further, and I can see 
they sent her a letter explaining this. This was a reasonable response. I cant see that Ms C 
did provide any further information in a reasonable time to allow Lloyds to investigate. There 
is a note of a discussion in 2018, but again there isnt further explanation from Ms C about 
what is in dispute. 
In 2020 when Ms C raised her complaint all the transactions were over 13 months previous. I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms C, but Im satisfied that its not 
unreasonable for Lloyds to decline to investigate further  based on the relevant regulations, 
and their own terms. 
Lloyds had said theyd consider waiving this limit if there were any exceptional 
circumstances. Ive considered what Ms C has said about her circumstances at the time, but 
Im not convinced these would be exceptional circumstances. She was already in contact 
with Lloyds about the transactions on her account, so its unclear why she couldnt have 
provided further information on what specific transactions she was disputing at the earliest 
opportunity.
Lloyds have already paid £50 for a delayed response to Ms Cs complaint. I think this is 
more than fair, so Im not asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman