DRN-4210103
The complaint
Ms M, through a representative complains that Street (UK) C.I.C. (Street) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
What happened
Ms M was advanced six loans by Street and Ive produced an overview of her lending history 
in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
weekly 
instalmentsweekly 
repayment per 
loan
1 £400.00 04/11/2013 02/06/2014 48 £11.00
2 £400.00 30/05/2014 16/12/2014 52 £9.97
3 £400.00 16/12/2014 21/07/2015 52 £9.88
4 £400.00 20/07/2015 08/11/2016 52 £9.53
5 £400.00 07/11/2016 23/03/2018 52 £9.81
6 £400.00 23/03/2018 11/02/2020 52 £10.15
Following Ms Ms complaint Street wrote to her representative to explain that it wasnt going 
to uphold it. Although it does appear at this time, it only dealt with the complaint about the 
final loan. It explained the affordability checks that were carried out which showed the loan to 
be affordable. Ms Ms representative didnt accept the outcome and referred the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. She thought Street had made a reasonable decision 
to provide loans 1  3 so she didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint about these loans. The 
adjudicator said by the time loan 4 was granted the lending was now harmful for Ms M and 
so loan 4 and all future loans should be upheld. 
Street didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment and Ms Ms 
representative confirmed she accepted the outcome proposed by the adjudicator. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Street had to assess the lending to check if Ms M could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Streets checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Ms Ms income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Street should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms M.  These factors include:
Ms M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms M. The adjudicator thought this 
applied in Ms Ms complaint from loan 4. 
Street was required to establish whether Ms M could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms M was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M accepted the outcome the adjudicator had reached, which included not upholding her 
complaint about loans 1  3. I therefore no longer think these loans are in dispute. So, I say 
no more about them.
And as Street hasnt responded to the adjudicators assessment, I dont know what it thinks 
the adjudicator may have got wrong when she assessed the complaint. But as loans 1  3 
werent upheld Ive assumed it would also have accepted the outcome the adjudicator 
reached. So, instead this decision will focus on loans 4  6 only. 
Loan 4 - 6 
For these loans, Street has shown that it asked Ms M for details of her income and 
expenditure. And it does seem for each loan that Ms Ms partners income was included in 
the weekly income figure. So, for loan 4 the weekly income was recorded as being £512, 
£446 for loan 5 and then £214 for loan 6. 
An income and expenditure form has also been completed for each loan and the weekly 
outgoings including the existing credit commitments Street was aware of came to £318 at 
loan 4, £280 at loan 5 and £219 at loan 6. On top of this, by loan 6 Street knew Ms M was no longer working and her sole source of 
income was benefits  which likely explains the decrease in the weekly income figure Street 
has recorded for this loan. In addition it was also on notice of a recent default because there 
is a note on the paperwork to suggest that the loan couldnt be approved until an 
arrangement was put in place to repay what was owed. 
In addition, for each loan a credit search was carried out and Street also took copy bank 
statements from Ms M before each of these loans were granted. 
In terms of the credit file, it knew at loan 4 that Ms M had defaulted on at least four accounts, 
but these were between 2010 and 2012 and so I dont think it wouldve been too concerned 
by it. However, between loan 4 being granted and loan 6 being approved, Ms M defaulted on 
a further four accounts. So, I consider this to have been an indication, that while Ms M was 
using these loans, she was having difficulties managing and maintaining her existing 
commitments. 
In addition, during the course of Ms M repaying loan 5 a County Court Judgement (CCJ) was 
recorded against her. So, the credit checks alone ought to have highlighted concerns and 
suggested to Street that Ms M was having financial difficulties and therefore further lending 
may not have been appropriate.  
While it is arguable, purely on the information gathered by Street, that the checks may have 
been proportionate because it did gather quite a significant amount of data. This was only 
part of the consideration. And indeed, the credit checks ought to have indicated to Street that 
Ms M was having current and ongoing financial difficulties. The regulations also said the 
loans had not only to be affordable but also sustainable for her  which is what Ive gone on 
to consider below. 
So, in addition to looking at the checks that Street did Ive also looked at the overall pattern 
of Streets lending history with Ms M, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which 
Street should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Street should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Ms Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say 
this because:
At this point Street ought to have realised Ms M was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Ms M had taking out her fourth loan in 20 months. So, Street ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Ms M was having to borrow further to cover 
a long-term short fall in her living costs. 
From her first loan, Ms M was generally provided with a new loan around the same 
day a previous loan was repaid and / or was granted while another loan was still 
outstanding. To me, this is a sign that Ms M was using these loans to fill a long-term 
gap in her income rather than as a short-term need.  
Over the course of the lending relationship, Ms Ms weekly commitments stayed 
broadly similar. There was no time when her weekly commitment significantly 
decreased. However, the fact that these loans were lent in generally a consecutive 
and concurrent manner, ought to have led it to realise these loans werent 
sustainable anymore. 
Ms M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Street. Loan 6 was 
taken out over four years after Ms Ms first loan and was to be repaid over a similar 
term. Her final loan was for the same capital amount as all other loans and Ms M had 
paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Street over an extended 
period.Loans 4  6 were due to repaid within a year, but as can be seen from the repayment date, it 
took Ms M longer to repay them than contracted  a further sign in my view these loans were 
unsustainable for her. 
I think that Ms M lost out when Street provided loans 4 - 6 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time
the number of loans and the length of time over which Ms M borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Ms Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint about loans 4  6 and Ive outlined below what 
Street needs to do in order to put things right.  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Street should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it had stopping lending from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may 
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Streets liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Street shouldnt have provided Ms M with loans 4, 5 and 6. 
A. Street should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms M towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Street should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Street should pay Ms M the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Ms Ms borrowing for loans 4 - 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Street should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Street to deduct tax from this interest. Street should give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ms complaint in part. 
Street (UK) C.I.C. should put things right for Ms M as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman