DRN-3172687
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (Catlin) has turned 
down a curtailment claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had planned a worldwide trip. They took out a travel insurance policy through 
a broker to cover them between 7 January 2020 and 13 August 2020. They departed for 
their trip as planned and were in a country Ill call A. They were due to fly on to their next 
destination country on 31 March 2020.
However on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be 
a pandemic. And on 14 March 2020, As government announced that from 15 March 2020, 
all international arrivals would be required to self-isolate for 14 days. 
Mr and Mrs R were due to take a domestic flight within A on 15 March 2020, which was 
cancelled by the airline. Due to their concerns surrounding Covid-19, they decided to cut 
short their trip and return to the UK early. They booked new return flights on 16 March 2020 
and flew back to the UK. 
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office) advised UK nationals against all but essential travel abroad on 17 
March 2020. And on 23 March 2020, it advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK.
Following their return to the UK, Mr and Mrs R made a claim on their travel insurance policy 
for the costs associated with cutting short their trip.
Catlin turned down Mr and Mrs Rs claim. It said the policy specifically excluded claims 
which arose because of epidemics.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with Catlins decision. Thats because the policy term Catlin 
had relied on didnt refer to pandemics  it only excluded epidemics. So they didnt think it 
applied to the circumstances of their claim. They asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. She noted that the 
policy did cover curtailment claims if the FCDO, WHO or a similar body recommended 
evacuation from the country or specific area a policyholder has travelled to. In this case, she 
acknowledged the reasons why Mr and Mrs R had felt they needed to cut short their trip.  
But at the time theyd made curtailment arrangements, thered been no advice from the 
FCDO, the WHO or As government to evacuate A and return to the UK. So she thought itd 
been fair for Catlin to turn down the claim.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed. In summary, they said the situation both in A and in the UK had 
been becoming critical, so their decision to return home early had been a sensible one. If 
theyd delayed their return, their travel costs wouldve been much higher.  Theyd paid a 
premium to cover unforeseen and unavoidable events.  Theyd sought advice from Catlin as 
to what action they should take and hadnt been given clear information  theyd been told to 
claim when they got back to the UK. Catlin had also refused to refund their policy premium 
following their return home. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide. Its important that I explain that this decision 
will only consider whether it was fair for Catlin to turn down Mr and Mrs Rs claim. I 
appreciate theyve referred to the lack of clear information they were given after they emailed 
the assistance team and that they say Catlin refused to refund their policy premium. 
However, it doesnt appear that Catlin dealt with these complaint points in its final response 
to Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Our rules state that a financial business must be given an 
opportunity to investigate a complaint and issue a response before we can look into it. So Mr 
and Mrs R will need to raise these concerns with Catlin before we can potentially help. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R, I think it was fair for Catlin to 
turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Rs policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether Catlin 
treated them fairly. 
I understand that the situation in which Mr and Mrs R found themselves was completely 
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, that when the insurance was 
purchased in October 2019, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 
couldnt have been foreseen by either policyholders or by insurers. 
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, 
Catlins obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs R are limited by the terms, conditions 
and exclusions which are set out in the policy. 
Mr and Mrs Rs policy says that Catlin will pay for a policyholders additional travelling costs 
and their unused curtailment costs if they have to cut short their trip because of one of a list 
of specific insured events  in this case, the serious illness, death or accident of a 
policyholder, a member of their travelling party or a close relative. Mr and Mrs R paid for an 
Explorer policy which also includes a Travel Advisory Curtailment section. This says:
If you have selected the Explorer Plan, this Section 2.2 is extended to cover you if you have 
no option but to curtail your trip as a result of the Travel Advice Unit of the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO), the World Health Organisation (WHO) or a similar body in the 
circumstances recommending evacuation from the country or specific area in which you 
are travelling, providing the recommendation came into force after you purchased this 
insurance or after you have left the United Kingdom to commence the trip (whichever is the 
later). (Emphasis added).
I note that Mr and Mrs R feel it wasnt fair for Catlin to rely on the epidemic exclusion when 
their claim was caused by a pandemic.  I accept that the policy doesnt specifically refer to 
pandemics. And I also acknowledge that at the time Mr and Mrs R curtailed their trip, the 
WHO had classified Covid-19 as a pandemic, rather than as an epidemic. But Ive 
considered how the WHO defines a pandemic. It says its: an epidemic occurring worldwide, or over a very wide area, crossing international 
boundaries and usually affecting a large number of people. 
While the WHO may respond to pandemics and epidemics differently, it seems to me that it 
classifies a pandemic as a type of epidemic  one which has travelled internationally and 
which affects large numbers of people. In my view, it appears that a pandemic cant become 
a pandemic unless its started out more locally as an epidemic. Theres no dispute that the 
management of Covid-19 was placed under the direction not just of the WHO, but across 
international governments across the world. So I think it was fair for Catlin to draw a link 
between the original epidemic and the ultimate pandemic when it initially assessed Mr and 
Mrs Rs claim.
And in this case, Ive considered the timeline of events very carefully. Its common ground 
that on 11 March 2020, the WHO declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. And that on 14 
March 2020, As government announced travel restrictions which would apply to 
international arrivals from 15 March 2020. I also appreciate that Mr and Mrs Rs domestic 
carrier cancelled their pre-booked flight. Given the rapidly evolving situation, I can entirely 
understand why Mr and Mrs R wanted to return to the UK.
However, Mr and Mrs R booked their new return flights on 16 March 2020. At this point, the 
FCDO hadnt advised all but essential travel abroad and indeed, it didnt go on to advise UK 
nationals who were already abroad to return to the UK for a further week  on 23 March 
2020. Mr and Mrs R havent provided any evidence to show the WHO directed that 
international travellers should leave A and neither had As government instructed foreign 
nationals to evacuate the country. It seems to me then that there was no official advice for 
Mr and Mrs R to curtail their trip at the time they chose to do so.
Its clear too that Mr and Mrs R didnt cut short their trip for any of the other insured events 
Catlin covers. So on this basis, I dont think it was unfair for Catlin to conclude that the 
circumstances of the claim simply werent covered by the policy terms.
I have noted while the policy specifically excludes epidemics from cover, it also specifically 
excludes cover if a policyholder remains abroad following FCDO advice against travel. There 
may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and 
transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions relating to the impact of 
the epidemic and FCDO exclusions on claims following changes in FCDO advice, I might 
think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms 
and conditions. 
But in this case, having carefully considered the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy, I dont think any other section covered the circumstances of this claim. And for the 
reasons Ive given, I dont think that but for the epidemic exclusion, the circumstances of Mr 
and Mrs Rs claim would be otherwise covered under the Travel Advisory Curtailment 
section of the contract.  So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct Catlin 
to accept the claim on the specific facts of this case. 
Overall, while I sympathise with the position Mr and Mrs R found themselves in and I 
appreciate theyve been left out of pocket for reasons beyond their control, I find it was fair 
for Catlin to turn down this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive give above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman