DRN-3455013
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc cancelled a direct debit which was in place to 
repay the balance of her Sainsburys credit account, and also with the service she received 
from Sainsburys surrounding this matter.
What happened
Mrs R had a direct debit set up with her third-party current account provider to make monthly 
payments to her Sainsburys credit account when required. In August 2021, after maintaining 
the balance of the account at zero for some time, Mrs R used the account to make a 
purchase, and expected the direct debit to make the necessary payment  as had always 
previously been the case. 
However, in November 2021, Mrs R learned that the direct debit had been cancelled prior to 
the August 2021 purchase, and that her account was in arrears. Mrs R wasnt happy about 
this, and she wasnt happy with the service shed received from Sainsburys when shed 
spoken to them about this issue. So, she raised a complaint.
Sainsburys looked at Mrs Rs complaint. They confirmed the direct debit had been cancelled 
by Mrs Rs current account provider. However, they did acknowledge that the standard of 
service Mrs R had received when speaking to their agents wasnt to the level that Mrs R 
should reasonably expect. Sainsburys apologised to Mrs R for this and made a payment of 
£75 to her as compensation for any trouble and upset she may have incurred. Mrs R didnt 
feel that Sainsburys compensation offer went far enough, which led to Sainsburys 
reconsidering their position and offering Mrs R a further £40, which Mrs declined, before 
then referring her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the complaint response 
that Sainsburys had issued, including the offer of a further £40 compensation, already 
represented a fair resolution to what had happened. 
Mrs R remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied that the direct debit cancelation was initiated by Mrs Rs current 
account provider in July 2021, and as such I dont feel that Sainsburys can be fairly or 
reasonably held accountable for the cancelation of the direct debit.
Having reviewed the recorded telephone calls and correspondence between Mrs R and 
Sainsburys relating to this issue, I do feel that Mrs R didnt receive the standard of service 
from Sainsburys that she should reasonable expect, and that she should be compensated 
for this.
Sainsburys dont dispute this point, and theyve already apologised to Mrs R for the 
standard of service she received and paid £75 compensation to her, as well as offered a 
further £40 compensation which Mrs R hasnt yet accepted.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But upon 
review, I do feel that the compensation payments and offers totalling £115 that Sainsburys 
have already made are fair here, given the circumstances, and I can confirm that theyre 
commensurate with what I would have instructed Sainsburys to pay, had the not already 
offered to do so.
Im aware that Mrs R feels that the Sainsburys manager whom she spoke with on 30 
November 2021 was particularly rude and unhelpful. Ive listened to this call, and while I can 
appreciate how Mrs R might feel this way, I do note that the call suffered from technical 
problems which made communication difficult, and I dont feel that the manager was rude 
and unhelpful in the way that Mrs R contends. 
Indeed, having listened to all the telephone calls provided to this service relating to this 
matter, while I can appreciate Mrs Rs frustration at the inconsistency of the information she 
was provided, I dont feel that Sainsburys agents did speak to Mrs R in a manner that I 
would consider as being rude. 
In November 2021, when Mrs R learned of the direct debits cancelation, she reset it. Mrs R 
was then told incorrectly that the payment that would become due at the end of November 
would be covered by that reset direct debit. However, its also notable that on a telephone 
call that took place on 17 November 2021, Mrs R was advised by Sainsburys agent to 
monitor whether the direct debt payment scheduled for the end of November was 
successful, and to contact them to make a manual payment towards the account if it wasnt.
Mrs R did then telephone Sainsburys on 30 November 2021 following the direct debit 
payment not being taken successfully, and she did make a manual payment towards the 
account. But because the payment wasnt made until relatively late in the day, it missed the 
inter-day deadline by which payments must be made to be recognised as having been made 
on that day, and instead was recognised as having been received the following day, which 
led to a late payment marker being applied by Sainsburys to Mrs Rs credit file.
Sainsburys have already agreed with Mrs R that the application of this late payment marker 
isnt fair, and they instructed an amendment to Mrs Rs credit file accordingly. Im aware that 
Mrs R is unhappy that her credit file wasnt corrected in a timely manner. But unfortunately, 
such correction instructions can take some time to be processed by the credit reference 
agencies. Sainsburys also agreed to reimburse the late payment fees that had been 
incurred on the account up to that time. 
These corrective actions seem fair and reasonable to me, and I dont feel that any further 
corrective action should be required of Sainsburys regarding this matter.
But it does remain the case that Mrs R was given confusing information by Sainsburys 
surrounding why the direct debit had cancelled and the correct process to ensure that further 
payments were made to the account without incident. However, as explained above, I dont 
feel that Sainsburys agents were rude towards Mrs R in the manner that Mrs R contends, 
and as such Im satisfied that the payment of £75 and offer of a further £40 that Sainsburys 
have already made to Mrs R already provides a fair resolution for the service issues for 
which I feel Mrs R should receive compensation for here.
In arriving at this position Ive considered the impact that these matters have had on Mrs R as shes described them. But Ive also considered that Sainsburys didnt initiate the 
cancelation of the original direct debit that was the root cause of these issues. And Ive also 
considered that Mrs R, as the account holder, had a responsibility to have monitored her 
account on an ongoing basis, including whether required monthly payments were made, and 
was provided with monthly statements and online access to her account by Sainsburys to 
enable her to do so. 
It follows from the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Sainsburys to 
take any further action here, beyond that to which theyve already agreed. Its my 
understanding that the offer of a further £40 compensation remains open for Mrs R to 
accept, and should she now wish to accept that offer I would encourage her to contact 
Sainsburys to do so. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome Mrs R was wanting, but I hope that shell understand, 
given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman