DRN-4354350
The complaint
Ms K complains that Experian Limited allowed a third party to set up an account and 
fraudulently gain access to her credit file. 
What happened
Ms K has explained she is in a legal dispute with a family member. On 5 March 2021 Ms K 
received a notification that her credit report had been accessed via an Experian subscription 
she had no knowledge of. Ms K contacted Experian on the same day and it raised a fraud 
investigation. On 9 March 2021 the subscription account was closed by Experian. 
Ms K has explained that when she spoke with an agent at Experian on the phone they 
advised that an email address and bank card in a family members name was used to set up 
the subscription account and obtain her credit file. 
Ms K went on to raise a number of complaints with Experian and asked it to confirm the 
details, including email address and bank details, used when setting up the new account. 
But whilst Experian was willing to confirm some of Ms Ks basic information, it wouldnt give 
the details she requested. Experian didnt uphold Ms Ks complaints. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Ks complaint. In its file submission, Experian 
made an offer of £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Experian told the 
investigator that it would provide the information Ms K requires to the Police if its contacted 
directly as part of an active investigation. Experian added it couldnt be held responsible if a 
third party fraudulently used a consumers information to open an account and gain access 
to Ms Ks credit file. The investigator thought Experians offer was fair and didnt ask it to do 
anything else.
Ms K responded and asked to appeal. Ms K gave detailed background concerning how the 
release of her credit file had impacted the legal dispute with the family member. As Ms K 
asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
In response to the investigator, Ms K gave us a lot of details concerning her legal dispute 
and how she feels the information Experian has provided is being used against her. But Ms 
Ks dispute appears to be longstanding and subject to ongoing legal action. If Ms K feels her 
details have been improperly used during the legal dispute, its ultimately something shell 
have to bring up with the courts. Im sorry but Im unable to compensate Ms K on the basis of 
how the legal dispute has progressed. 
Experians explained that to open the new subscription, the third party must have had 
access to personal identifying information for Ms K. I think thats a reasonable point as 
information like full name, detailed address history and date of birth are required to open an 
account. So whilst I understand that Ms Ks email address wasnt used to register the new 
account, Im satisfied the third party wouldve had to provide a substantial level of identifying 
information to open the subscription. Whilst I understand the subscription wasnt opened by 
Ms K, Im satisfied Experian wouldve carried out the necessary checks before proceeding. 
Experians explained it wont release the third party email address or card number to Ms K 
and we cant force it to. As Ive noted above, Experians explained the agent Ms K spoke 
with shouldnt have given her those details during a call. We cant force Experian to release 
that information to Ms K. Ive reviewed the application screen print provided by Experian and 
whilst I cant give Ms K the details she wants, I can say the email address used doesnt 
match the one we hold for her.  
In addition, Experians told us that if it receives a request from the Police for the details Miss 
K wants as part of an active investigation it will provide them. I leave it to Miss K to decide 
how she wishes to proceed. 
Experian has agreed to pay £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms K. Whilst I 
know my decision is likely to disappoint Ms K, Im satisfied that a payment of £75 reasonably 
reflects the impact of the way Experian dealt with her case and is a fair way to resolve her 
complaint. As a result, Im going to proceed on that basis and uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Ks complaint and direct Experian Limited to settle by paying 
her £75 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman