DRN-2548179
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of a car he was financing through an agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr S. The car here 
was around five years old and had completed about 122,546 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would consider a car, even of this age and mileage, to 
be of an acceptable quality if the gearbox wasnt working properly and as Mr S reported that 
fault so soon after taking receipt of the car I think that fault was very likely to have been 
present when he received the vehicle; when MotoNovo were responsible for its quality.
MotoNovo have taken the car back, terminated the finance agreement and refunded Mr Ss 
deposit as I think they should have done.
Theyve also agreed with the investigators view that they should reimburse the
cost to change the car insurance; the cost of the private taxi plates that Mr S wasnt able
to fully utilise; the cost of having to remove and re-fit the car camera; the cost of the car
mats and boot liner and £180 for the cost of the hire car Mr S had to source. MotoNovo have 
also agreed to pay Mr S £150 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
that hes experienced.
Ive reconsidered each aspect of that redress and I agree that its reasonable.
What is still in dispute is whether MotoNovo should pay Mr S any money in respect of the 
loss of earnings he says he missed out on.
Mr S has explained that he is a taxi driver and because he didnt have the car for 17 days at 
the end of 2019 and into 2020, MotoNovo should refund the £1,462 he would have earned 
doing his regular taxi school run. Hes provided bank statements to show his loss of 
earnings.
Im not persuaded Mr S has provided sufficient evidence. Hes not been able to provide the 
invoices for the work he was doing on the school run in order to clearly demonstrate the 
shortfall. Id also expect Mr S to have made efforts to mitigate any loss. Sometimes its not 
possible to mitigate the loss but here I can see that Mr S was able to hire a car with taxi 
plates for a short period in December 2019. It seems reasonable to suggest that if he wanted 
to benefit from the school run work he could have extended that agreement. In those 
circumstances I dont think it would be fair to ask MotoNovo to refund any lost income. 
Putting things right
Im not asking MotoNovo to refund any lost income, but I do think the resolution proposed by 
our investigator is a fair one and Im asking MotoNovo to adhere to it.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to:
reimburse Mr S £28 for the cost to change his car insurance;
reimburse Mr S £131.58 for the cost of the private taxi plates that he wasnt able to 
fully utilise;
reimburse Mr S £48 for the cost of having to remove and re-fit his car camera;
reimburse Mr S £52.89 for the cost of the car mats and boot liner;
reimburse Mr S £180 for the cost of the hire car;
pay Mr S £150 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman