DRN-2598538
The complaint
Mr R complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr R acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr R. The car here was around 
nine years old and had already completed about 104,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear. But I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect the engine to fail after only four months and about 1,800 miles of additional driving. 
The independent inspector said the the engine appears to have been operated with
depleted oil and that he considered this vehicle has at some point been operated with 
depleted oil or may have been low on oil at policy inception. 
He went on to explain that the dealership had told him the oil level was at maximum when 
the car was taken to them and that there were no warning lights on the car. Given that 
information I think its unlikely Mr R would have been aware of the problem on the car until 
he heard the knocking noise. I think its therefore more likely than not that any operation of 
the car with depleted oil happened before he received the car and the damage was therefore 
present at the point of supply.
The business have suggested that Mr R contributed to the damage by driving it to the 
dealership. But Mr R has explained that he was told to bring the car in to them and that he 
wasnt told the car would need to be recovered to avoid damage. I dont think I have enough 
information to suggest Mr R was negligent and I therefore dont think it would be fair to ask 
him to contribute to any repair costs.
Mr R has explained that the car has subsequently developed electrical problems as the 
battery has been depleted. I wont comment any further on those issues as they havent 
been explored, but I think its understandable that the battery on a car, that has sat idle for 
many months, would discharge and Id expect Close Brothers to be sympathetic to any 
electrical issues that have subsequently developed. 
Putting things right
The relevant legislation explains that where a fault develops that was present at the point of 
supply the business should be allowed one opportunity to fix it.
Close Brothers should therefore collect the car at no cost to Mr R and arrange for the engine 
repairs to be carried out at no cost to Mr R.
Mr R had to arrange to have the car stripped down to identify the faults with it. I think this 
strip down was unavoidable and that Close Brothers should therefore refund the £822 it cost. 
They should add 8% simple interest to that refund as Mr R has been deprived of that money.
Mr R hasnt been able to use the car since July 2020 and its therefore unfair for him to have 
been paying instalments on his finance agreement to fund a car he has not been able to 
drive. So, Im asking Close Brothers to refund any instalments hes paid since July 2020 and, 
again, theyll need to add interest to this refund as Mr R has been deprived of the money.
Its clear that Mr R has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take the car to the 
garage and has had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it could have been 
resolved earlier. In the circumstances I think Close Brothers should pay him £100 to 
compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Mr R has asked me to consider whether there should be a refund of the insurance hes been 
paying whilst the car has been off the road. Im not persuaded to refund this insurance cost 
as I think the car would always have needed to be insured whether it was working or not. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
collect the car and arrange for repairs at no cost to Mr R;
refund any finance instalments Mr R has paid since the car failed in July 2020. Add 
8% simple interest per year to this refund from the date of payment to the date the 
car is returned to Mr R;
pay Mr R £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
refund the £822 Mr R spent having the car stripped and investigated and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman