DRN-4395897
The complaint
Y, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money it lost 
when it was the victim of a scam.
Y is represented in this case by Mr A, its director.
What happened
Ys director, Mr A, met a woman on a social media website in early 2021. They messaged 
for some time and the woman then told Mr A that she worked for an investment company 
and could teach him how to trade. As Mr A trusted the woman by this point, he agreed and 
so made a number of payments to the investment company from personal accounts he held 
with other banks  as the woman instructed him to do.
A number of payments were also made to the investment company from Ys account with 
HSBC, as set out below:
Date Amount
30 April 2021 £2,000
1 May 2021 £5,000
1 May 2021 £2,000
4 May 2021 £5,000
Unfortunately we now know the woman and the investment company were scammers.
The scam was uncovered after Mr A tried to withdraw some of the profit he was told he had 
been making. The woman told him he couldnt withdraw it and, when he queried why he 
hadnt been told this before, she blocked him. Y then reported the payments made out of its 
account to HSBC as fraud and asked it to refund the money it had lost.
HSBC didnt agree to refund the money Y had lost, so it referred a complaint to our service.
I sent Y and HSBC a provisional decision on 7 September 2023, setting out why I wasnt 
intending to uphold this complaint. An extract from my provisional decision is set out below:
This decision is solely in relation to the payments made out of Ys account. In these 
circumstances, Y is the eligible complainant who can bring a complaint to our service. Mr A 
is considered a separate legal entity  distinct from Y.
Y accepts that it made the payments out of its account here. So while I recognise that it 
didnt intend for the money to go to scammers, it did authorise the payments. And so the 
starting position in law is that HSBC was obliged to follow its instructions and make the 
payments. So Y isnt automatically entitled to a refund.
Where a customer made payments as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for a bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payments. And Ive thought carefully about what Y, and Mr A, have told us to 
decide whether it would be fair for HSBC to refund the payments here.
Mr A met the scammer on a social media website. The initial payments he made towards the 
scam were made out of his own personal accounts. And, from looking at transcripts of his 
chats with the scammer, he only mentions using the profits he would make for his own 
personal benefit. So I think Mr A entered into the investment intending for the profits he 
made to be for his own personal benefit, rather than for any business-related activity on 
behalf of Y.
Mr A has said the first payments he made towards the scam were for his personal benefit. 
But that, as he thought he was making a good profit, he then also decided to use money 
from Ys account. And that the profit from these payments would be used to help Y.
But he hasnt sent us any documentary evidence to show that the investment was being 
made by Y in its own capacity, such as a business plan or correspondence with a business 
accountant setting out the investment. And Mr A sent money to the scam from his personal 
accounts first, and only started sending money from Ys account after the available balance 
of his personal account was used up.
There was also no activity on Ys account for several months before the payments to the 
scam. And Y appears to be a restaurant, or food-related service, so investing or trading 
doesnt appear to be connected to any business activity it would be carrying out.
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that the money paid 
towards the scam from Ys account was for a personal investment being made by Mr A, 
rather than for any business-related activity on behalf of Y.
Given this, there are two potential scenarios in relation to the debt created by the spending 
on Ys account. Firstly, this could be Y lending money to Mr A personally  in which case 
Mr A would be liable to repay that debt to Y. And Y couldnt fairly be considered to have 
suffered a loss, as it is still owed the money by Mr A.
Secondly, by spending the money in Ys account in this way, Y could have been paying off a 
debt it owed to Mr A. But if this were the case, Y wouldnt have suffered a loss as its debt to 
Mr A would have been paid off. Mr A would then have been deemed to have lost the money 
on his own behalf.
So however the payments made out of Ys account are treated, I dont think Y has suffered a 
loss. And so, even if HSBC had made an error or would otherwise be required to refund the 
payments, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require it to do so here because I 
dont think Y has suffered a loss.
I said Id consider anything further Y and HSBC sent in following the provisional decision, 
provided it was received by the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Y and HSBC replied to the provisional decision, but neither submitted any further 
evidence or arguments to be considered.As neither Y nor HSBC sent in anything further to be considered, I still think the conclusions I 
reached in the provisional decision are correct  and for the same reasons. I still dont think 
Y has suffered a loss here, and so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require 
HSBC to refund the payments it made.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman