DRN-3290606
The complaint
Mr J complains that Vitality Corporate Services Limited (trading as VitalityLife) mis-sold him 
serious illness cover as they didnt explain it would pay out on a sliding scale based on the 
severity of the condition claimed for.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2019 Mr J set up a VitalityLife Essentials Plan, via a third-party firm, that provided serious 
illness cover. The policy had an eight-year term with an initial sum assured of £10,000, and 
an indexed option selected. 
Mr J suffered a heart attack in July 2020 and so he made a claim under the policy. 
VitalityLife settled the claim in January 2021, with about £4,100 paid as it was classified as 
severity level C (50%). There was also a health loading applied to Mr Js claim as VitalityLife 
said Mr J misrepresented his health when applying for the policy by not disclosing his raised 
blood pressure.  
Mr J cancelled the policy and complained about the amount he received. He said he wasnt 
told when taking out the policy that a claim would be paid on a sliding scale depending on 
the severity of the condition. And he considers this to a significant feature which ought to 
have been brought to his attention when the policy was sold  as well as being made clear in 
the policy documents or on VitalityLifes website (which he couldnt see). MrJ said had he 
known this information he wouldnt have taken out the policy, so he thought it was mis-sold. 
Mr J also raised concerns about the health loading applied and the time it took for his claim 
to be paid. 
VitalityLife upheld Mr Js complaint in part. They said:
The plan provisions, which they sent to Mr J, explained that the policy pays on a 
sliding scale. 
Mr J didnt disclose his raised blood pressure when asked about it in the application.
The policy was purchased via a third party and, after Mr J received his confirmation 
schedule, he had the opportunity to call and clarify anything he was unsure about.
They apologised for the delay in cancelling the policy following Mr Js request, as well 
as how long it had taken to respond to Mr Js complaint. They paid Mr J £200 
compensation for the inconvenience this may have caused. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman but our investigator didnt think 
VitalityLife had to do anything further. He said:
Unfortunately, the third-party firm Mr J purchased the policy through is no longer 
trading. So, we cant know what was explained to Mr J regarding how the policy 
worked when it was sold. 
VitalityLife shouldve made it clear to Mr J how the policy worked including the sliding 
scale. And VitalityLife had shown that, when the policy was set up, theyd sent a plan 
schedule  and a separate email - to Mr J that explained the policy documents could 
be found in the secure member zone inbox for him to access.
He thought the Plan Summary and Plan Provisions explained the sliding scale policy 
feature.
Mr J disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
Before I explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to clarify that Ive only 
looked at whether the policy was mis-sold here. I wont be commenting on the health loading 
due to misrepresentation. That has been considered separately against the underwriter of 
the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Js dissatisfaction at receiving less than the £10,000 he was expecting as he 
says he was unaware that the claim payment would be dependent on the severity of his 
condition. And that because this sliding scale feature wasnt brought to his attention when he 
took out the policy, he considers it to have been mis-sold. Ive given careful thought to what 
Mr J has said but, for similar reasons to that of our investigator, I dont think VitalityLife mis-
sold the policy. Ill explain why. 
The policy was set up through a third-party firm. And so, no advice or recommendation was 
given to Mr J by VitalityLife. This means that VitalityLife werent responsible for ensuring the 
policy was suitable for Mr Js needs. They were only required to provide Mr J with clear, fair 
and not misleading information so that he could make an informed decision. Ive therefore 
looked at the information provided to Mr J.
VitalityLife sent a welcome letter to Mr J that said:
Your Plan Summary, Plan Provisions and Terms and Conditions can always 
be found in the secure Member Zone inbox for you to access when you need 
to. If you wish for a printed copy of these documents, please make a request 
by call us on [number].
VitalityLife also emailed Mr J saying:
Once your plan is in place, it is important that you register and log on to our Member 
Zone. To register you'll need your membership number which is [number].
On the Member Zone youll find your plan documents available to you within 24 hours 
from when your plan is in place. These will tell you what's included in your cover and 
how to claim, so please read them carefully.
From this, Im satisfied that it was made clear to Mr J where the relevant policy information 
could be found. And if he wanted a printed copy of the documents then this could be 
requested.Im aware that Mr J has said these documents arent easily found in the Member Zone and 
are strangely placed under a notification icon. He feels they shouldve been more accessible 
to him than this. While Ive noted this point, I dont think the documents were hidden from 
Mr J or inaccessible. In any event, VitalityLife clearly explained to Mr J they were available in 
the Member Zone and so if he could not find them then he couldve contacted them about 
this. I cant see that he did. 
The Plan Provisions, on page eight and nine, say:
B2. Serious Illness Cover
Serious Illness Cover pays a lump sum if you are diagnosed with an illness or 
condition that we cover and that meets our definition of that condition. Your claim 
also needs to meet other criteria. We set these out in this provision.
The lump sum we pay you will be a percentage of your Serious Illness Cover 
between 5% and 100%. That percentage will depend on how severe your illness is  
based on a scale from levels A to G. For more about severity levels, see How much 
we will pay, at provision B2.3.

B2.3 How much we will pay
The amount we will pay depends on:
 How severe your condition is
 The type of cover you have
 The amount of cover you have
 Whether your plan schedule indicates that you have selected Serious Illness Cover 
Booster
How severe your condition is
The lump sum we pay you will be a percentage of your Serious Illness Cover 
between 5% and 100%. That percentage will depend on how severe your illness is  
based on a scale from A to G.
The Plan Provisions then provide a table showing what percentage of the insurers serious 
illness cover would be paid for each severity level.
Im satisfied the above makes it clear how the policy worked and that the amount of any 
claim payment will be dependent on the severity of the condition/illness. I understand 
however that Mr J thinks, as a significant feature of the policy, it shouldve been given 
greater prominence. And that it shouldnt be buried within a 136-page document. 
I appreciate a policyholder may not read the Plan Provisions in full. But I think VitalityLife 
gave reasonable prominence to the sliding scale by explaining how the serious illness cover 
worked within the first ten pages of the document. Im also aware that a Plan Summary was available to Mr J too. And this 16-page booklet gave an overview of the cover and the 
features of the policy. This explained:
Serious Illness Cover

Our Serious Illness Cover pays out based on a scale, from 5% (Severity G) for the 
lowest severity level of a condition, to 100% (Severity A) for the highest. So the more 
severe your condition the larger the payment youll get.
Again, Im satisfied this sets out how the policy works and that there is a sliding scale for 
serious illness claims. I also consider, given its a document providing a summary of the 
cover and its features (and so significantly shorter than the Plan Provisions), that it was 
reasonable to expect Mr J to have read this. Had he done so, he wouldve known about the 
sliding scale and if this wasnt what he wanted then he couldve changed his mind about the 
cover.
I appreciate Mr J thinks VitalityLife shouldve done more to have brought the sliding scale 
feature to his attention. But, for the above reasons, I think VitalityLife made it clear in the 
policy documents they provided to him. And I dont think I can reasonably hold VitalityLife 
responsible if Mr J didnt read them. Or, if the third-party firm that sold the policy didnt 
explain it sufficiently either. 
Ive also considered the issues regarding the cancellation of the policy and the delays in 
VitalityLife responding to Mr Js complaint. I realise Mr J wouldve be frustrated by what 
happened, but I think £200 is a fair amount to recognise this. Im therefore not increasing it 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman