DRN-3896349
The complaint
Mr L complains that Nationwide Building Society sent him a warning letter about his 
behaviour in the branch when he ordered duplicate bank statements. 
What happened
Mr L visited his local Nationwide branch to order some duplicate bank statements. He said 
there were two tellers behind the counter and another one who was sitting at a desk with a 
laptop, near where he was queuing. He says one teller was serving a customer and another 
teller was on her computer, so he asked the lady with the laptop if she was serving 
customers, and she replied that she was busy.
After a few minutes, Mr L asked the teller who was on her computer how long it might be 
before she would be available, and she directed him towards her colleague with the laptop, 
but he explained he had already asked her. Mr L says after another minute a teller behind 
the counter became available and he requested the duplicate statements. He was given 
these and left the branch.
Mr L says that he received a letter from Nationwide expressing that the member of staff that 
had dealt with him in the branch had reported that he was shouting and using inappropriate 
language towards her. The letter said if this continued they could ultimately close his 
accounts and additionally, the details contained in the letter would be added to his profile. 
This would be visible to member facing colleagues for up to six months. Mr L says he was 
angry to receive this letter as he didnt act the way the letter said he did and he wanted to 
see the Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) and the witness statements from the other 
members of staff, but Nationwide didnt provide any of this to him. Mr L made a complaint to 
Nationwide.
Nationwide did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. They said CCTV footage was not available as it 
had expired and it wouldnt have contained audio to evidence what was said. They said they 
had taken statements from the branch manager and the member of staff involved and it was 
proven conclusively that his behaviour was perceived to be aggressive, rude and 
intimidating. They gave two examples of Mr L swearing in the branch. Mr L brought his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said he couldnt agree that there was an 
unreasonable delay in issuing the warning letter to him as Nationwide needed to ensure that 
they fully investigated the incident before making any decisions. He said they explained 
within their warning letter that they hoped that they could continue a positive banking 
relationship with him going forward.
Mr L asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said his complaint was wholly surrounding the request to Nationwide for the 
CCTV footage covering the time he was in the branch as this footage would have captured 
him standing in the queue, and then standing in front of the teller calmly. He said the warning 
letter had caused him stress and he was/is considering taking Nationwide to Court for 
defamation of his character. Mr L said there had been no thought in considering an approach 
to Nationwide on how CCTV is kept in future cases where the CCTV has been asked for. He 
said there were inconsistencies in the witness statements as the teller could not have left her 
desk to compose herself with the next customer in the queue asking her if she was ok at the 
same time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Mr L has mentioned potential legal requirements. But if Mr L wants a decision that 
Nationwide have breached any laws or defamed his character, then hed need to go to 
Court, which I understand he still may do. Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution 
service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual 
complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant law, regulations and 
industry guidance amongst other things, make findings about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a complaint.
I must explain to Mr L that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as 
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how Nationwide have investigated his 
complaint, such as how long it took them to write to him with their outcome, not keeping the 
CCTV footage when he has raised a complaint, and how they would prioritise witness 
statements over this footage does not come under my powers to consider.
Ive considered what Mr L has said regarding our service should consider an approach for 
Nationwide on how to keep CCTV for future cases where CCTV has been asked for. Id like 
to explain to Mr L that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run their 
security procedures. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, 
who have the power to instruct Nationwide to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. 
While Im persuaded that CCTV footage potentially could have showed body language on 
the day in question, Im not persuaded it would have been conclusive enough to definitively 
state one way or another some of the claims the staff have made. I say this because the 
CCTV didnt contain any audio, so for the language which Nationwide say Mr L used  which 
is one of the reasons they sent him the warning letter, CCTV would not be able to prove he 
didnt say those things  even if body language was taken into consideration. And there 
would also be no guarantee any CCTV footage would cover all of the area(s) in which the 
alleged incident happened or be clear enough to make out exactly what happened.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mr L has regarding his belief that the CCTV was 
deliberately deleted. But Im not persuaded by this. I say this as Nationwide appear to have 
followed their process in relation to their retention of CCTV footage. As they explained to Mr 
L in their final response letter to him, their system holds the footage for 30 days and then it is 
overwritten. So although Mr L asked them for this footage on more than one occasion during 
the 30 day period, they have explained their process in this situation, where they have had a 
report of a member using verbal and aggressive behaviour, is for this to be reported to their 
verbal and aggressive behaviour team for witness statements to be provided.
I have listened to a call Mr L has had with Nationwide on 5 May at 11:08am. The call handler 
explains their process is to request witness statements and not to view CCTV. She explains the complaint will be going to a senior complaint handler. Mr L explains his dissatisfaction at 
their process, and he asks for the senior member to look at the CCTV footage. He also 
requests the footage. The complaint handler says she will request this once the complaint is 
allocated. Mr L does not object to this and he responds thats great. But unfortunately, as 
the case was allocated to the complaint handler on 1 June, the CCTV wouldnt have been 
available to either send Mr L when the complaint was allocated or available for the complaint 
handler to view  although its doubtful the complaint handler would have viewed this 
anyway, given this is not their process to do so.
Ive considered what Mr L has said about inconsistencies in the witness statements. And the 
things the staff told Nationwide in the course of the complaint. Im not persuaded that 
because a teller allegedly left her desk to compose herself that this wouldnt mean she 
couldnt serve the next customer in the queue. I say this as its not known how far away from 
her desk she went or how long she was away for. Its feasible that she could have served the 
next customer in the queue and the member could have asked the teller if she was ok after 
seeing the teller leave her desk. Its also important to note that Mr L has redacted witness 
statements, so he may not be aware of who has said what on the different information he 
has. 
Nationwide would have a duty of care to take allegations of verbal and aggressive behaviour 
seriously. The branch themselves do not issue a warning letter as this is decided at a more 
senior level. I can imagine the stress it would have caused Mr L to receive this letter, 
especially as he says he did not act in the way that the letter states he did. But I cant say 
their verbal and aggressive team were unreasonable in issuing the letter based on what the 
staff had told them happened on the day in question. So it follows that I wont be asking 
Nationwide to do anything further.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman