DRN-3117017
The complaint
I complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) required it to pay 
legal fees out of the settlement it received, despite it having legal expenses insurance. 
As Mr I is responding on behalf of I, Ill refer to him throughout.
What happened
The crux of this complaint relates to whether the legal fees should have been paid out of the 
settlement or whether DAS was responsible for paying these separately  and this is what Ill 
be addressing in this decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  Ill explain why.
The global settlement Mr I agreed to was for £225,000. The solicitors acting for Mr I in 
respect of the claim retained their fee from the settlement, which was in excess of £60,000. 
Mr I has argued that this was a single all-encompassing take-it-or-leave-it figure and there 
were no sums allocated in respect of costs, so the legal fees have been deducted from his 
payment for damages. He believes he should be reimbursed on the basis that he held legal 
expenses insurance and because DAS had advised him ...providing you have not breached 
any terms and conditions of your policy, or exceeded the limit of cover, we will settle the 
costs directly with the lawyer at the conclusion of your claim.
The investigator stated that this should be considered in conjunction with the rest of the 
letter, as well as the terms and conditions of the policy. Within the same letter, under the 
assessing costs on conclusion section, it says If there are any costs for us to pay when 
your case has been concluded, we will assess whether they are reasonable and if they have 
been incurred in line with the terms we have agreed with the lawyer.  The suggestion here 
is that there might not be costs to pay  if [there are any costs]. And this would only be the 
case where costs have been recovered from the third party, as legal representation would 
come at a cost.
Moving on to the terms and conditions of the policy, I note that it states:
An insured person must take every step to recover costs and expenses that DAS 
have to pay and must pay DAS any costs and expenses that are recovered.
If the settlement didnt include the legal costs, I couldnt reasonably say that the terms and 
conditions of the policy had been adhered to. I say this because accepting a settlement 
without consideration of the legal fees wouldnt be taking every step to recover costs and 
expenses that DAS have to pay. The second part of this term makes it clear that, having 
taken every step to recover costs and expenses, these must then be paid to DAS  which is 
what happened here. So I dont think DAS acted unfairly or unreasonably in expecting the 
legal costs to be covered by the settlement. 
Mr I has said that, in cases where costs are recovered, theyre never recovered in full. He 
said that only around 60% of the costs would be recovered. Ive not been given evidence of 
a breakdown of the settlement  but this doesnt change the abovementioned requirements 
to take every step to recover costs and to pay DAS any costs and expenses recovered. 
Im persuaded that the solicitors acting for Mr I were aware that the settlement included the 
legal fees. I say this because:
DAS sent its Terms of Appointment to the solicitors acting for Mr I. The solicitors 
responded to request an amendment to some of the clauses. One of the clauses sent 
to DAS for amendment started: However the Claim is concluded, we expect you to 
recover (to the extent permitted by law) your Costs and Expenses from the 
opponent It doesnt appear that this aspect of the clause was amended, but it 
would suggest the clause was read thoroughly. 
In an email between DAS and Mr Is solicitor in March 2020, there was reference to 
the previous solicitor and their attempt to recover costs. DAS said (my emphasis): 
As the matter has now transferred to your firm, I believe they are asking you to make 
this attempt for them, when trying to recover your own costs.
In an email from April 2021, the solicitors wrote I wanted to confirm that, of the 
settlement monies to be received, those which I am to retain to repay to DAS are 
£6,780 for the disbursements paid by DAS. The balance of the monies, less [the 
solicitors] fees, will then be remitted to the client.
From this, its clear the solicitors were made aware of the requirement to recover their own 
costs and that they were aware their costs were to be deducted from the settlement amount. 
I also note that the Terms of Appointment between DAS and the solicitor, prior to their 
appointment, state: 2.11 If you are negotiating a settlement which includes Costs, Expenses 
and damages you must make sure the split between these elements is clear. And, as the 
solicitor was aware of the need to recover its costs from the third party, its likely that it was 
negotiating a settlement to include costs, expenses and damages. So it follows that it was 
required to make sure the split between the elements was clear. I dont know what 
communication the solicitors had with Mr I or how the global settlement was explained  but 
thats not for me to comment on. Instead, Id simply note that it wasnt for DAS to make the 
split clear as it wasnt involved in the negotiations. As above, it had a term requiring the 
insured to take every step to recover costs, and it then had terms in place requiring the 
solicitor to make it clear how the settlement was to be split. 
Mr I has told us that he accepted a fraction of what his claim was worth on the basis of 
threats of costs from the other side. It appears to me that Mr I is saying that he wouldnt have 
accepted the settlement offered if hed been aware that the legal expenses would be 
deducted from this. But DAS wasnt involved in the settlement figure. For the reasons given 
above, I think DAS made it clear substantially before the settlement was agreed that the 
legal fees would need to be recovered from the other side. So if this wasnt something Mr I was aware of, he might want to refer back to his solicitor.
I note that Mr I feels hes in no better position than if hed gone to a solicitor without 
insurance. However, if Mr I had been unsuccessful in this matter, subject to adherence to the 
policy terms, DAS would have paid the legal fees on his behalf. So, as DAS stated, it 
provided financial reassurance that would protect Mr I from the significant downside in the 
event his claim wasnt successful. And if the settlement had been less than the legal fees 
payable, DAS would have been liable for the difference. 
So I conclude that DAS hasnt acted unreasonably by settling the legal fees with the 
settlement Mr I received. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this claim against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman