DRN-3060168
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice he received from Pi Financial Ltd (Pi), trading as Future 
Wealth Management (FWM) when he transferred several existing personal pensions worth 
around £52,000 to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). 
His funds were subsequently invested in high-risk investments and he lost the majority of his 
pension funds. Mr M says he was looking to consolidate his pensions and wanted to 
increase the overall value of his plans. He said he was prepared to take some investment 
risk, however the investments that he went into were above his attitude to risk or capacity for 
loss.
For ease of reading Ill refer to Pi throughout this decision. 
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
representative of Legal Partnership (LP) -unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd (trading as FWM) - regulated financial adviser
Horizon Stockbroking Ltd (HS)  regulated discretionary investment manager-in liquidation
James Hay (JH)-SIPP provider
Mr M says he wanted to tidy up his pension as he had been diagnosed with a serious 
illness. He found LPs details on the internet and contacted them in 2014. He says was 
looking for advice on how to consolidate his pensions and had no interest in playing the 
markets. LP referred Mr M to Pi.
Mr M signed a letter dated 3 July 2014 to Pi saying: 
I would like to transfer my existing pension plans into a new Self Invested Personal 
Pension Plan, in order to allow me access a wider range of investments. 
Could you please recommend a suitable SIPP provider for me and arrange the transfer.
Please note that I have a separate investment adviser who will be arranging the investments 
to be held within the SIPP and therefore I do not require any advice from you concerning 
this, or the suitability of a SIPP platform. 
On 8 July 2014 the adviser from Pi replied saying:
Thank you for the letter of 3rd July 2014 in which you instructed me to transfer your current 
. Plans into a new Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  I confirm I am happy to carry 
out your request and, as discussed, I will research the whole of the market to find the most 
appropriate SIPP for your requirements. 
I have made you aware that, under normal circumstances, I would carry out a full review of 
your personal and financial circumstances and assess them in relation to the suitability of the 
SIPP. However you have specifically requested this particular vehicle and did not want me to 
look into alternative options for you.
I will have no input in the investment strategy for your SIPP funds, as you are using a 
separate investment adviser for this, and therefore I will only be responsible for arranging, 
and transferring your funds into the SIPP.
Mr M signed a client agreement and a service agreement with Pi on 11 July 2014. The 
service agreement indicated the service level was limited advice service only. It was agreed 
Pi would receive 3% of the transfer value.
On the same day several other documents were completed, including a fact find which 
showed Mr M was 53, single, earning an annual income of £27,800 and having an 
outstanding mortgage of £80,000. The form said Mr M wanted to retire at 65. A knowledge 
and experience assessment recorded Mr M had previously had a bank account, pension 
contracts and single company shares. He had received advice on all of these. A box was 
ticked to say Mr M had some knowledge of investments.
Pension Replacement Contract Forms show the risk category for the SIPP was recorded as 
balanced, with an asset allocation being described as managed. This matched what was 
recorded for the existing plans. 
The Reasons for Switching section had ticks next to the headings:
No longer suitable for clients investment objectives
Lack of features/flexibility
Other
A section on the form headed Alternatives Considered asked whether moving funds within 
the existing contracts was an option. This was ticked as yes. And a note recorded: 
Client setting up SIPP to choose own funds.
Pi issued a Suitability Report (undated) and a Defacto Report -which set out information 
about James Hay as the recommended SIPP provider. The suitability report was headed 
Personal Pension To SIPP Transfer.  It said amongst other things: 
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with no advice received on the Investment of the SIPP 
and I have acted accordingly. I have, therefore, only obtained the necessary information 
from you to advise on the above area. You should be aware that my recommendations may 
have differed if I had undertaken a full review of your financial circumstances.
You wish to invest in and choose your own Investment to invest your SIPP monies. I will 
have no input in where you wish to invest your monies of your SIPP and will set up the SIPP 
with a provider on your behalf. You have intimated that you may wish to invest directly in 
shares within your SIPP funds. I have given no advice on where you should invest your SIPP 
funds and have only set up your SIPP investment with the appropriate provider.

ObjectivesYou wanted me to recommend an appropriate SIPP into which you can transfer your 
existing...Personal Pension plans.

Your Risk Profile
Ordinarily I would complete a risk profiling' questionnaire, however as you wished to carry 
out your own investments you felt this was not required.
And there was a section titled Replacement Business which said:
In reviewing your objectives, I have recommended that you surrender/discontinue the
contracts outlined in the Replacement Policy Form.
The rationale for this is also outlined in the Replacement Policy Form, which we completed
during our last meeting and a copy of which is attached to this letter.
The recommendation section said:
After doing my research on the most appropriate provider and plan to meet your needs, I 
have recommended a James Hay SIPP. James Hay was chosen over the other providers on 
the original research due to their low annual management charge, low set up fee and quality 
of service. 
It is worthwhile outlining the product features of the contract recommended to demonstrate 
why it is suitable to your current circumstances and stated objectives, which I outlined 
earlier. 
It went on to set out the benefits of a SIPP. The report was signed to confirm that Mr M had 
received and understood it on 1 August 2014. An application for the SIPP was completed on 
11 August 2014.
In December 2014 Mr M signed a Horizon account opening form for a discretionary service. 
A Knowledge and Experience section which asked if a customer had ever traded in a 
number of more complex investments including CFDs, Options, Derivatives, Commodities or 
Spread Betting was left blank.
Under Current Investments it recorded that Mr M had £4,800 in bank/building society 
accounts and £46,000 in pension funds.
The form had a section entitled Investment Risk and Objectives which said:
Please indicate below your tolerance to short term fluctuations in capital or income by 
ticking one of the following options:
The section Medium was ticked which said there was some tolerance to fluctuation of capital 
value and/or current income in normal market circumstances. 
A box was ticked as Yes to indicate that Mr M was willing to invest through a managed CFD 
account and that he was only investing money that he could afford to lose. It said: 
I understand that this is a high-risk speculative product, and that I might lose some or all of 
the funds invested...Mr M became concerned about the advice hed been given when the value of his SIPP had 
reduced significantly. He complained to Pi who didnt uphold his complaint and so it was 
referred to this service. 
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr Ms complaint. He recommended that it should be 
upheld. He said it had been wrong for the adviser not to take into account Mr Ms investment 
strategy when recommending the sale and transfer of his existing pension benefits to a 
SIPP. He thought a very high risk CFD account was unsuitable for Mr M. There was no 
evidence Mr M had experience or knowledge of CFD trading. And the adjudicator didnt think 
taking such substantial risks with the majority of his pension was suitable for Mr M in his 
particular circumstances. He didnt think there were any compelling reasons for transferring 
his pensions into a SIPP and using a discretionary fund manager. 
He recommended Pi should calculate -using an index benchmark- what position Mr M likely 
would be in if he had not transferred his pensions to a SIPP and invested them with the 
DFM. This redress method took into account that Mr M had also complained to HS who the 
adjudicator held responsible for the investment losses above the benchmark used.
Pi disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. Since the 
adjudicator issued his view, HS has gone into default and this service cant consider a 
complaint against them any longer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pis position in summary is that:
Mr M instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider. It only provided Mr 
M with a limited advice service on these specific instructions. Given the limited nature 
of the retainer the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its recommendation was 
suitable in full compliance with COBS 9.2.1 and 9.2.2. Any liability could only be in 
regard to whether a SIPP was appropriate for Mr M.
Pi didnt provide Mr M with advice on the switch from his personal pension plans to a 
SIPP or on the investment through HS. Mr M had already decided what he wanted to 
do before he approached Pi. And the HS forms made it clear the intended 
investments were high risk. They doubt additional information by Pi would have 
changed Mr Ms course of action. 
Mr M had confirmed that he would be using a separate investment manager. Pi 
established that manager was an authorised and regulated firm and appropriately 
qualified. They did compliance checks and there were no red flags which should 
have caused them to refuse to arrange the transfer for Mr M.
The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of HS who was also a 
regulated party. HS is responsible for Mr Ms losses and not Pi who only played a 
very limited role here. 
Provisional findings
I previously issued a provisional decision in which I set out the following:relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 provides:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Mr M investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable? 
If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Mr M would have relied on the advice (or whether he would have acted the 
same way he did irrespective of Pis advice) and 
If Mr M did follow Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Mr M with 
regulated investment advice. 
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
included:
Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of 
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme. 
(2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
SIPP provider to Mr M. This is also clearly evidenced in the following documents:The research report prepared by Pis adviser on 15 July 2014 and which -after 
comparing several SIPPs and providers- recommended the James Hay Modular 
iSIPP for Mr M. 
The suitability report headed Personal Pension To SIPP Transfer which said 
amongst other things:
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension. (SIPP) with no advice received on the Investment of the SIPP 
and I have acted accordingly.
Under Objectives it said You wanted me to recommend an appropriate SIPP into which 
you can transfer your Personal Pension Plans. 
The report then went onto outline the points to consider. It said In undertaking this transfer I 
would like to draw your attention to the following. It went on to list, amongst other things, the 
charges for the SIPP Pi was recommending, and confirmed there were no exit penalties from 
the original arrangements.
Pi went on to make a specific recommendation After doing my research on the most 
appropriate provider and plan to meet your needs, I have recommended a James Hay 
SIPP. James Hay Partnership was chosen over the other providers on the original research 
due to their low annual management charge, low set up fee and quality of service. 
It is worthwhile outlining the product features of the contract recommended to demonstrate 
why it is suitable to your current circumstances and stated objectives [my emphasis], 
which I outlined earlier.
Having undertaken appropriate research on your behalf I believe that James Hay 
Partnership will offer the most suitable contract given your stated objectives.
A copy of the research undertaken . accompanies this letter for your
consideration which outlines in greater detail the reasons for the recommendation of the 
chosen provider. [my emphasis]
I think its clear from the documents that Pi recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
provider which they said was suitable for Mr M. Im satisfied that recommending a suitable 
SIPP provider can be considered to be advising under Article 53 RAO. 
I am satisfied that Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a personal 
recommendation to Mr M when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the obligations in 
COBS 9 were engaged.
Was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer? 
Pi has said it provided a limited advice service in accordance with Mr Ms instructions. Mr M 
had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and he told them he didnt 
require investment advice. Pi says they didnt provide advice on the switch from Mr Ms 
personal pensions to the SIPP or where the funds would be invested.
The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP product only. Having considered this carefully I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable for them to do so.The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA). 
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
recommendation would meet Mr Ms objectives and that he was able to bear any related 
investment risks. Mr Ms recorded objective for transferring to the SIPP was the access to a 
wider range of investments.
I consider the risks of Mr M transferring his existing pensions and the risks of his intended 
investments through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why 
Mr M wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Mr M was intending to do once the 
SIPP was established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific 
SIPP product, Pi needed to have regard to Mr Ms wider circumstances including how his 
funds were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy would be. 
Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in isolation without considering the whole transaction is 
not reasonably possible.
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial 
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments 
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for 
customers, however I consider the principles here still apply where regulated investments 
are concerned. The alert said:
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable
I appreciate that the alert focussed on particular situations and it didnt mention explicitly 
situations where a second regulated party was involved to give investment advice. Pi says 
the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the adviser was the 
only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. 
However, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is 
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt 
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were 
intending to do was suitable and in their best interest.  I want to be clear that I consider Pis 
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides 
clarification and sets out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The 
requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall away when another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP Pi needed to consider Mr Ms 
wider circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch from a 
personal pension to a SIPP, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the 
underlying investment strategy. 
I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Mr M to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation. 
Pi and Mr M were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty to 
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi do consider the 
wider suitability of Mr Ms intended transactions when recommending a SIPP-whether he 
requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or 
reasonably when providing their advice to Mr M.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said 
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey 
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a 
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Mr M case. 
 
With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was 
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It 
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role 
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS 
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual 
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on 
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of 
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension 
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenlagh, but it doesnt change my findings either. 
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability 
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9 
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.   
In summary, I consider that when advising Mr M on the suitability of the James Hay Modular 
iSIPP, Pi had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction including the 
pension switch and where Mr M intended to invest after the transfer.
did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mr M with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Mr M didnt have any significant investment experience and 
this was his only pension provision. Pi was aware that Mr M was intending to transfer his existing personal pensions which were invested in balanced, managed funds to a SIPP in 
order to choose his own funds. 
Its unclear whether Pi knew in this particular case that Mr M was planning to invest through 
Horizon when they gave their advice. However, Ive seen email correspondence between Pi 
and HS in 2015 where Pi was requesting statements for their clients which included Mr M. Pi 
said : [The statements] are all off by quite a bit and [Pis adviser] wants to speak to them. 
The email chain indicates that Pi and HS were in frequent contact about their mutual clients.
This indicates that Pi was still actively involved after the investments were made which 
somewhat conflicts with Pis statement that they only recommended the SIPP and played a 
very limited role in the process. So on balance I think its likely Pi knew that Mr M, like other 
clients introduced by LP and other unregulated introducers, would invest through Horizon.
Pi confirmed that during their due diligence enquiries with HS, they confirmed to Pi that "at 
present all our SIPP clients' have a portfolio containing ETFs and CFDs. This is consistent 
with the client's attitude to risk completed on the application form". So if they knew Mr M was 
intending to invest through Horizon, they ought to have known HSs investment strategy was 
too high risk for Mr M.
Even if I assume Pi originally didnt know what Mr M wanted to invest in, they should have 
found out before they gave their advice. As stated before, Pi needed to consider the 
transaction as a whole and without knowing what Mr M was planning to do and achieve, they 
couldnt reasonably conclude whether the transfer to a SIPP was suitable. 
Mr Ms limited assets and answers on the knowledge and experience assessment should 
have given Pi an indication that Mr M didnt really have any significant investment 
experience. The suitability report says Pi discussed Mr Ms experience and knowledge and 
said they established he had reasonable experience as he had previously received advice 
on different products and had invested in a range of pensions and investments before. 
However, I cant see evidence that Mr M had previously invested into particularly high-risk 
investments or was otherwise particularly knowledgeable when it came to investments. His 
personal pension was invested in a balanced managed portfolio. Even if Mr M had suddenly 
wanted to invest into high risk investments, I think its highly unlikely he had the knowledge 
and experience to understand the risks involved in CFDs. 
Pi didnt establish Mr Ms attitude to risk or to what extent he could bear financial risk (often 
referred to as capacity for loss). The suitability report suggests Mr M felt a risk profile wasnt 
required. However, it didnt matter what Mr M might have considered necessary or not in this 
regard. Pi was required to meet their regulatory obligations and COBS 9 required Pi to 
obtain this information about Mr M before making their recommendation. They failed to do 
this. Looking at the information available I cant see any indications that Mr M had a high 
attitude to risk. He was also investing his entire pension provision. So I think it should have 
been clear to Pi that Mr M likely didnt have the capacity for loss to invest this way. 
Based on the information I have, Im satisfied the intended investment into CFDs was 
unsuitable for Mr M. If Pi wasnt able to identify this with the information they had, then at the 
very least I think this would have been evident if they had asked Mr M more questions about 
his circumstances and intentions-like they ought to have done. In any event, I note Pi have 
already agreed that CFD investments wouldnt have been suitable for a retail customer like 
Mr M. So I dont think this issue is really in dispute.
Pi knew-or ought to have known- that Mr Ms intended investments through HS were 
unsuitable as they were too high risk. Despite this, they recommended a SIPP and facilitated 
this investment.In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended a SIPP to Mr M. They should have 
explained that his intended investments were too high risk and that given his limited assets, 
he couldnt financially bear the risks with his retirement funds. I also havent seen any 
persuasive evidence that a SIPP was generally suitable for Mr M. I cant see that costs of his 
existing pensions and the SIPP were properly compared or that low cost alternatives like a 
stakeholder pension were explored. Given Mr Ms lack of investment experience I cant see 
that it would have been reasonable to expect Mr M to choose and manage his own 
investments and using a discretionary fund manager is usually more suitable for larger 
portfolios as the additional charges can considerably affect returns.
In my view Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the SIPP 
without having regards to Mr Ms overall situation. They didnt pay due regard to Mr Ms 
interests and did not take reasonable steps to ensure that their personal recommendation 
was suitable for Mr M as per their regulatory obligations. Therefore I do not consider that Pis 
actions in their dealings with Mr M were fair or reasonable in the circumstances. 
would Mr M have transferred his pension to a SIPP and invested through HS anyway?
Pi say that even if they had refused to assist Mr M, he likely would have found someone else 
to complete the transaction for him.
I carefully considered Pis argument, however on balance I think Mr M would have listened to 
Pi if they had clearly told him they wouldnt recommend a SIPP and that they considered the 
intended investments through HS to be unsuitable for him. 
The HS account opening forms did make it clear that CFDs were high risk and HS called Mr 
M after they received his forms as they had noticed that he was intending to invest in CFDs 
even though he didnt seem to have any relevant experience. They reiterated CFDs were 
high risk and that they would have to change his recorded attitude to risk from medium to 
high if he wanted to continue. Mr M agreed to this and jokingly said just make me as much 
money as you can. So overall I think Mr M would have known these were high risk 
investments and likely was attracted to potentially higher returns.
 
However, I think explicit advice from Pi acting as a professional firm recommending him not 
to proceed would have carried significantly more weight than the general wording in the 
application forms warning the investment was high risk. Mr M had no real investment 
experience so Im not convinced he would have been able to properly understand the risks 
he was taking with his entire pension here. HS also didnt really try to dissuade Mr M from 
investing. In fact they simply suggested to change his attitude to risk on the forms. The 
consequences of the loss of the pension were of great significance to Mr Ms overall financial 
position. Mr M didnt have the capacity to bear significant losses to his pension, which was a 
real possibility with the investment in the CFD account.
So I think on balance if Pi, as a regulated adviser and independent third party, had told Mr M 
they couldnt recommend the SIPP as the intended investments were not suitable for his 
circumstances, the transaction wasnt in his best interest and he couldnt afford to risk his 
pension in this way, I think he would have decided not to proceed. 
If LP had continued to try and persuade him to proceed regardless, Mr M would have faced 
a choice between taking the advice of the unregulated introducer or the authorised firm. Im 
not persuaded the evidence suggests Mr M was so strongly motivated to make the 
transaction that he would have decided to press ahead with it against professional expert 
advice. For the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that Mr M would more likely than 
not have proceeded this way if Pi had explained the position in full and recommended 
against the SIPP and investment with HS.reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4
Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on HS 
providing a suitable recommendation for Mr M. Pi doesnt accept that there was a regulatory 
obligation for them to assess the investment in detail and certainly not to the extent than it 
would be expected from someone who recommended the investment.
Firstly, I dont consider that COBS 2.4.4. applies here. The rule broadly says where a firm 
(F1) receives an instruction from another regulated firm (F2) to carry out a regulated activity 
on behalf of a client, F1 can rely on assessments or information provided to it by F2. Pi 
suggests in these particular circumstances they were F1 and HS were F2. However, Pi didnt 
receive any instructions here from HS. 
There was no need for Pi to assess the investment in encompassing detail. But they needed 
to have sufficient understanding of what Mr M would be invested in and either knew or 
should have known Mr Ms intended investments would include CFDs. Pi agreed that 
[CFDs] are not suitable for retail clients
So in any event, even if COBS 2.4.4. applied, I cant see how Pi could reasonably rely on HS 
providing Mr M with a suitable investment, when they knew or ought to have known that his 
investments would include CFDs which Pi considered unsuitable for retail clients like Mr M.
fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Mr M unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Mr M more 
likely than not would have not invested the way he did. Having considered all the evidence 
and arguments, I consider it fair that Pi compensates Mr M for any losses he suffered by 
transferring into the SIPP and investing into high risk investments through HS.
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of 
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to 
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018]. 
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Mr Ms knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. 
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above. 
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP although the intended 
investments in CFDs were evidently unsuitable for Mr M. For the reasons I have given earlier 
in the decision, I think Mr M would have likely not transferred his pensions into a SIPP and 
invested through HS but for Pis failings. So Mr M wouldnt have been in the SIPP or CFD 
account at all if Pi had met its obligations under COBS and PRIN. And consequently he 
wouldnt have suffered the investment losses he did. I therefore consider the losses Mr M 
suffered from the high-risk investment were a consequence of Pis unsuitable advice.
Pi say HS, who was also a regulated firm, had their own obligations towards Mr M and it was 
their investment strategy that ultimately caused Mr Ms losses. Pi pointed to other decisions 
at this service were findings were made that HS had caused losses by excessive trades. 
Based on this, Pi say it seems likely that the losses suffered by Mr M are down to similarly 
excessive trade volumes by HS and a failure to keep the proportion of CFDs within portfolios 
to an acceptable level. They say these were not issues that could have been foreseen by Pi 
and the losses incurred are therefore too remote. I recognise that HS also had regulatory obligations and its possible that their actions may 
have also separately caused some of Mr Ms loss. The adjudicator certainly thought so when 
he considered the complaint against HS and decided to apportion the losses between Pi and 
HS in his assessment. Where this service has complaints against multiple firms about the 
same losses, we might decide to apportion the redress between the different firms. As 
consumers are still being compensated for all their losses in this scenario, this can be a 
reasonable and fair approach to take. This option, however, isnt open to me any longer. I 
cant consider a complaint against HS as they are now in default. So I can only consider Pis 
actions and what I consider to be fair compensation they should pay Mr M.
I considered that, in principle, if HS acted negligently or fraudulently, such actions might 
represent a break in the chain of causation. However, in the circumstances of this case I 
think its reasonable to award fair compensation against Pi notwithstanding any potential 
break of chain of causation. 
This is because Im putting Mr M as far as possible in the financial position he would be in 
but for Pis unsuitable advice. Mr M wouldnt have lost out at all but for Pis failings to take 
reasonable steps to ensure their advice was suitable and Pi benefitted financially [in their 
role as independent financial advisors] from advising on this unsuitable transaction. So I 
consider it fair that Pi should compensate Mr M. I think apportioning responsibility to Pi for 
the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
In any event I dont think Mr Ms losses were unforeseeable. Pi knew or ought to have known 
this was a high-risk and speculative investment product and they agreed in their submissions 
that they didnt consider this suitable for Mr M. So Im satisfied the real risk of Mr M suffering 
substantial losses and even the risk of total loss of to his pension would or should have been 
foreseeable to Pi. 
Its possible that HS did excessive trades and Pi might have not foreseen the scale of the 
losses. However, as I said above, Pis suitable advice would have more likely than not 
prevented all losses. Pi knew of the high risks and significant losses Mr M could suffer by 
investing his pension funds through HS in a CFD account. If Pi had given Mr M suitable 
advice these losses would have been prevented.
In my view Mr Ms losses flowed from Pis failures in regard to COBS and PRIN as I have 
described. I dont think the losses are too remote or that I am departing from the law. In all 
the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair compensation that Pi compensates Mr M for the 
losses he suffered by transferring his pension into a SIPP and from there into high risk 
investments. 
putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mr Ms losses my aim is to put Mr M as close as possible 
to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice by Pi.
I think Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done. He might have remained in his existing plans or consolidated them in a new 
plan. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr M's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
To compensate Mr M fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.Pi should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr M £750 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
Finding out his only pension had so dramatically decreased has been upsetting and 
caused Mr M distress. Mr M has been severely ill over the past years and the 
uncertainty and worry about his retirement provisions has significantly impacted on 
his health.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr M a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
transferdate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of final 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
being notified 
of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr M paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude. 
responses to my provisional findings
Mr M didnt have any further comments. Pi disagreed with my decision. In summary they 
said:
Limited retainer
Its not fair and reasonable to hold Pi responsible for Mr Ms investment losses when 
he specifically requested and received a limited service and didnt look to Pi for 
investment advice.
COBS 9.2.2 provides that (emphasis added):
A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, 
giving due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that 
the specific transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of 
managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio
The ombudsman disregards that the nature and extent of the service provided in this 
case was solely the advice on a SIPP provider and did not extend to assessing the investments (which was categorically excluded). So holding Pi responsible for an 
alleged failure to assess the investments is contrary to COBS. 
COBS 9.2.2 provides that the recommended transaction must meet the customers 
objectives. It doesnt provide that a similar exercise needs to be completed for 
transactions connected to the transaction in question. Such a duty is not imposed by 
COBS. So Pi only needed to ensure the SIPP was suitable.
The alert by the regulator in 2013 was aimed at advisers recommending pension 
transfers and has no relevance to advisers whose retainer is limited to 
recommending a SIPP provider. The only reasonable way is to apply the alert only to 
the circumstances it was designed to address. The regulator did not envisage that 
the alert was applicable outside of cases involving pension transfer advice. They 
didnt introduce similar requirements on cases involving pension switches. The 
Financial Ombudsman Service cant apply principles from any alert to any transaction
Pi didnt provide an execution service but conclusions from the Carey judgement are 
still relevant. Including: The scope of duty has to be considered through the 
agreement reached by the parties - which in this case was the agreement that no 
investment advice would be given by Pi. Theres nothing to indicate COBS should 
take precedence over the contractual terms agreed by the parties. And the duty to 
act fairly and honestly does not mean the contract terms should not be overlooked. 
Consumers should take responsibility for their decisions.
Suitability of advice
Pi was only required to advise on a suitable SIPP. The level of information Pi was 
required to obtain had to be viewed in context of the nature of the retainer and the 
service provided.
There is no evidence that Mr M didnt have the knowledge and experience to 
understand the investments made in the SIPP. Such conclusions should be tested in 
an oral hearing. In any case, Pi wasnt responsible for the investments and could 
take comfort from the fact another regulated party (HS) would be advising on these.
Pi did extensive due diligence on HS. There was nothing to indicate HS would do 
anything other than act in Mr Ms best interest. Theres nothing inherently wrong with 
a client adopting a high degree of risk in order to obtain high returns.
The SIPP itself was suitable and not causative of the losses suffered.
Would Mr M have completed the transaction if Pi had recommended against it?
Mr M clearly wanted higher returns and even when he was told by HS, a regulated 
party, that CFDs were high risk, he proceeded. He knowingly made high risk 
investments and theres no basis to conclude that Pi could have told him anything 
else which would have made him reconsider his decision and not switch his 
pensions. 
Mr M was clearly not minded to keep his existing pensions as he initiated contact 
with LP to switch his pensions.
The ombudsman speculates what Mr M would or would not have done. Conclusions 
should be properly tested in an oral hearing.Departure from legal principles
 
Its not been made clear whether the ombudsman has chosen to impose more 
demanding duties than civil law and if so, no reasons were given for doing so.
The decision requires Pi to pay compensation where the losses fall outside their legal 
duty.
The ombudsman did not address that HS was churning trades in order to generate 
commission and that the bulk of the losses suffered probably comes as a result of the 
fees and charges levied by HS. HSs conduct was not foreseeable and broke the 
chain of causation. Pi can have no liability in these circumstances.
my findings
I can assure Pi that I have considered in full all their detailed submissions including their 
letter of 29 November 2018-which they referred to again in their latest response. However, I 
as explained in my provisional decision, I will address what I consider the key material 
issues here.
Having re-considered Pis arguments, I remain satisfied that the decision I have reached is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Limited retainer
Pi argues that COBS 9.2.2R is caveated by the words giving due consideration to the
nature and extent of the service provided. And I agree that the obligations in COBS 9.2.2 R 
do only apply to the advice Pi gave which is the SIPP advice in this case. However, as 
explained in my provisional decision the suitability of a SIPP cant be reasonably considered 
in isolation without assessing the underlying investments. 
So I disagree with Pis argument that COBS 9.2.2 R itself is limiting their obligations in this 
respect. 
The FSA alert in 2013 related to pension transfers and pension switches. It said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension..
And it specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they 
could advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further 
alert in which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the 
overall advice is not suitable. 
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP) 
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of 
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments 
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly 
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. 
Pi knew that the purpose of the SIPP was to invest through HS and they also knew it would 
be funded through a pension switch. Pi was also aware this was being initiated by an 
unregulated introducer who had referred a number of clients to Pi with the intention to invest 
through HS into high risk products. So I think they ought to have been aware that the idea to 
switch pensions and invest through a SIPP in HS would have come from an unregulated 
party. They needed to ensure Mr M understood and could bear the risks of his intended 
actions. I strongly disagree that the regulators alerts arent relevant to the circumstances of 
Mr Ms complaint.
I remain satisfied that the circumstances in the Carey case were sufficiently different to this 
complaint. No advice was given in this case. Pi did provide advice to Mr M and I appreciate 
that Mr M agreed to limited advice and said he didnt need investment advice. Ive taken this 
into account. However, as explained earlier in the decision, even when only giving limited 
advice on the suitability of the SIPP, Pi still had to consider the suitability of the whole 
transaction to meet their regulatory obligations. The fact another regulated party was 
involved does not change this.
suitability of advice
Pi says they did due diligence on HS which included finding out about their investment 
strategy and they knew Mr M would be investing in CFDs. These were high risk investments 
which were unsuitable for Mr M. Based on the information Pi had about Mr M there was no 
indication he had a high attitude to risk or that he had any relevant experience or knowledge 
about these kind of specialist investments. Ive based my findings on Mr Ms knowledge and 
experience on the contemporaneous evidence from the time of the advice as recorded in the 
fact find and HS application forms. His recorded assets clearly showed he didnt have the 
necessary capacity for loss. Pi have also previously confirmed that they agree these 
investments were unsuitable for retail investors like him.
The SIPP was established to facilitate these investments. As the investments were 
unsuitable, the SIPP shouldnt have been recommended and Pi should have informed Mr M 
why such a transaction was not in his best interest and that he couldnt afford to take such a 
risk with his pension. As set out in my provisional decision I havent seen any persuasive 
evidence to say a SIPP and DFM service in general was suitable for Mr M.
Would Mr M have completed the transaction if Pi had recommended against it?
As Ive said before, I dont doubt that Mr M was attracted by higher returns and its correct 
that he initiated contact with LP to review his pension. However, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, I still think on balance he would have listened to a regulated adviser 
telling him the investment through HS wasnt a good idea and why. Its true HS had pointed 
out to him CFDs were high risk, but they didnt do much to dissuade him but instead just said 
he needed to change his attitude to risk on the forms. This is different to telling someone not 
to proceed. 
Given that Pi should have been aware that there was a risk Mr M was being influenced by 
LP and potentially not given full and clear information about what he was about to do, they 
should have established what he had been told and correct any potential misconceptions.If after all of this Mr M still wanted to proceed, Pi could have considered treating him as an 
insistent client. As this didnt happen, its impossible to know for certain what Mr M would 
have done if Pi had recommended against the SIPP. I therefore need to decide what Mr M 
would have done on the balance of probabilities. And for reasons set out in my provisional 
decision I still think on balance he would have listened to Pis advice. 
That doesnt necessarily mean Mr M would have kept his existing pensions. He was clearly 
interested in reviewing his options, so might have switched elsewhere which is why I used a 
benchmark for the redress instead of notional values of his existing pension. However, on 
balance I dont think he would have invested through HS if Pi had given him suitable advice.
Ive come to this conclusion based on the circumstances of this case and what both parties 
have told us. I remain satisfied that Im able to reach a fair and reasonable decision in this 
regard without an oral hearing.
Departure from legal principles
I dont consider I departed from the law here. Pi had a duty to give suitable advice which 
included considering the suitability of the pension switch and the intended investments in the 
SIPP. If Pi had given suitable advice and either refused to facilitate the transaction or 
completed a proper insistent client process with Mr M, they would not be liable for any losses 
even if Mr M had decided to proceed anyway and suffered investment losses. 
If they had given suitable advice I consider that on the balance of probabilities Mr M would 
have not invested through HS and so any investment losses he suffered could have been 
avoided. So there is a direct link between Pis failings and Mr Ms losses. 
I acknowledged previously that HS as a regulated firm also had separate obligations and its 
possible that excessive trades and charges might have contributed to the scale of the 
losses. And its true that if I could consider a complaint against HS I might have decided to 
apportion losses between the firms. 
But I remain satisfied that in the circumstances its fair and reasonable to hold Pi responsible 
for all losses. They knew Mr M was going into an unsuitable investment which was very high 
risk and speculative and there was a real risk he could lose a significant portion or even all of 
his money. They could have prevented all these foreseeable losses by giving suitable 
advice. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021. 
Amy Shah
Ombudsman