DRN-4332588
Complaint
Mr O has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. 
He says the loans were unaffordable and were therefore irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr O with an initial loan for £3,000.00 in February 2018. This loan 
had an APR of 106.8% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £5,690.88, including interest, fees and charges of £2,690.88, was due to be repaid 
in 24 monthly instalments of £237.12. This loan was settled early in May 2018.
Everyday Loans then provided Mr O with a second loan for £5,000.00 in March 2019. This 
loan had an APR of 81.1% and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £10,766.52, including interest, fees and charges of £5,766.52, was due to be 
repaid in 36 monthly instalments of £299.07. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Os complaint and eventually reached the conclusion 
that Everyday Loans didnt do anything wrong when providing Mr O with his loans. So she 
didnt think that Mr Os complaint should be upheld. 
My provisional decision of 21 August 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 21 August 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold           
Mr Os complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that weve set out how we handle complaints about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
provisionally decide Mr Os complaint. 
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr O could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I was concerned that Everyday Loans own checks in the lead up to loan 1 showed that hed 
had recent difficulties repaying credit in the form of defaults and outstanding balances with 
debt purchasers. This didnt even take into account that Mr Os wife was also significantly 
indebted and that Mr O appeared to be the main wage earner for the household.
I was also concerned that Mr Os indebtedness increased in the period between loans 1 and 
2. And loan 2 for a larger amount than loan 1, with significantly larger monthly payments. 
This was in circumstances where the first monthly payment for loan 1 was returned unpaid 
as well. 
I thought that it was also important to note that Everyday Loans was required to establish 
whether Mr O could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan 
payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan 
payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments. 
But, in my view, it didnt automatically follow that this was the case. And as a borrower 
shouldnt have to borrow further in order to make their payments, it followed that a lender 
should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to 
sustainably make their repayments if it was on notice that they were unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Everyday Loans own notes appeared to show that Mr O was constantly calling and asking 
for a loan top-up in the months leading up to loan 2. In my view, this indicated a reliance on 
credit. Furthermore, the underwriting notes for loan 2 also appeared to indicate that 
Everyday Loans knew that Mr Os wife had lost her job. Yet Everyday Loans appeared to 
accept that Mr O was once again on top of things despite the credit checks it carried out 
appearing to show otherwise. Indeed the number of defaults and accounts with debt 
collection agencies didnt tally with someone who was repaying loans quickly because they 
received large bonuses. 
In my view, Everyday Loans appeared to have ignored a number of clear warning signs in 
preference of what the other information obtained indicated were over optimistic 
assessments of disposable income. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that the information Everyday Loans obtained 
ought reasonably to have alerted it to the fact that Mr O was unlikely to have been able to 
repay these loans without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty. And I was 
also satisfied that the information Everyday Loans gathered ought to have alerted it to the 
fact that it shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr O. 
As Everyday Loans provided Mr O with these loans, notwithstanding this, I was minded to 
conclude that it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. And this left me intending to 
uphold this complaint about both loans. 
Mr O ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loans he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So it was my intention to find that Mr O lost out because of what Everyday Loans did 
wrong and issue a final decision which directed Everyday Loans to put things right for Mr O.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr O confirmed that he was happy with my provisional decision and that he had nothing 
further to add.Everyday Loans didnt respond to my provisional decision or ask for any additional time to do 
so. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Os complaint in my provisional decision 
of 21 August 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to consider, 
Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
So Im still upholding Mr Os complaint and I remain satisfied that Everyday Loans needs to 
put things right. 
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans to do to put things right for Mr O
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Os complaint for Everyday Loans to put things right for Mr O by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr O paid on his loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr O to the date of settlement
removing any and all adverse information it recorded about these loans from Mr Os 
credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 21 August 2023, Im 
upholding Mr Os complaint. Everyday Lending Limited should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman