DRN-3028224
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc treated him unfairly after he agreed to make 
increased payments to his credit card. 
What happened
Mr R has a credit card with HSBC and last year it contacted him about the outstanding 
balance. HSBC asked Mr R to get in touch to discuss options for repaying his credit card. 
Mr R called HSBC and agreed a repayment plan. During the call, Mr R and the advisor 
discussed options for a repayment plan. Mr R says he thought payments of around £38.53 
had been agreed. HSBC says the payment quoted was £58.53. Once the plan was agreed, 
HSBC wrote to Mr R and said it would take effect from 12 November 2020 and that he 
should check his monthly statement for details of how much his payment would be. HSBCs 
letter explained Mr Rs payment would increase to take into account interest applied to the 
credit card plus an increased amount to repay the outstanding balance. 
Mr Rs next credit card payment was due on 31 October 2020 but it wasnt received by 
HSBC until 2 November 2020. As a result, HSBC applied a £12 late fee to Mr Rs account. 
On 5 November 2020 HSBC sent Mr R a credit card statement that said he needed to pay 
£67.38 by 30 November 2020. The statement included the £12 late fee Mr R was charged 
the previous month. That the payment due on 30 November 2020 was made up of £57.38 
which was his monthly payment, plus £12 which was the late fee. HSBC received £39 from 
Mr R on 1 December 2020. 
Mr R has continued to make payments of around £40 a month, in line with his original 
minimum payment. But arrears have increased over time as HSBC says Mr R agreed to 
increase his minimum payment in October 2020. 
In February 2021 Mr R complained and said the payments he was being asked to make 
werent in line with the agreement he reached in October 2020. A case handler spoke with 
Mr R and said the payments required were set out each month in his credit card statement. 
Mr R advised the case handler he didnt want to check statements each month when there 
was no activity on the account. 
HSBC didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint and said it had sent him details of the new payment 
plan following his call in October 2020. HSBC said in the previous months it had refunded 
five late payment fees. HSBC offered to refund two further late payment fees as a gesture of 
goodwill but Mr R declined. 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
HSBC had treated Mr R fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr R asked to appeal and 
said HSBC had failed to follow through with the agreed payments of £38 a month. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Mr Rs call with HSBC when he set up the plan in October 2020. Before the 
call, Mr R was making payments of about £40 each month. And the subject of the call was to 
discuss increased monthly payments so Mr R would repay the balance instead of just 
covering interest. It follows that the new payment would be higher than the existing payment 
of around £40 in order for the outstanding debt to reduce. 
During the call, HSBCs call hander said Mr R had two options. He could increase his 
payments to around £68 for three years to repay the balance in full. HSBC also said Mr R 
could increase his payments to around £58 a month to repay the balance in four years. The 
call handler gave the figure as £58.53 and said it several times. 
It appears Mr R thought the call hander said £38.53 a month, not £58.53. I note the call 
handler specifically said to Mr R that the actual amount would change each month and that 
he should check his monthly statements for the figure he needed to pay. Mr R didnt raise 
any concerns with this approach. And HSBC sent Mr R confirmation of the arrangement 
once it had been set up that also said he should check statements. 
Mr R says its unclear why he was asked to pay £67.38 in the 5 November 2020 statement. 
This was the first month of his new arrangement and I understand he was expecting to pay 
around £38. But, Im satisfied the quote HSBC gave was actually £58.53, not £38. And, as 
set out above, the statement shows that £12 of the £67.38 figure was made up of a late 
payment fee, leaving £55.38 as the payment to his card. Thats very much in line with the 
information given over the phone. I havent found any errors with the way HSBC calculated 
Mr Rs payments. 
Mr R has continued to make payments of £40.01 but because he agreed to increase his 
standard payment in October 2020, that hasnt been sufficient to cover his minimum 
payments as set out in the monthly statements. So arrears have increased over time and 
been reported on Mr Rs credit file.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I think HSBC has treated him fairly. When Mr R called to 
discuss the persistent debt position of his credit card it agreed to increase his monthly 
payment so the balance would be repaid in four years. HSBCs call handler asked Mr R to 
check his statements for the specific amount required and pay accordingly. 
As noted above, the first payment due under the arrangement was higher because it 
included a late payment fee. But Im satisfied HSBC did provide Mr R with the statements 
required to understand why how his payment was calculated. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I havent found HSBC made any errors or treated him 
unfairly in this case. As Im satisfied HSBC has dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly, Im not 
telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Marco ManenteOmbudsman