DRN-2073447
The complaint
Mr R complains that Society of Lloyds unfairly settled a claim on his van insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Lloyds includes anything done by its underwriters. 
What happened
Mr R was hit from behind, so he contacted Lloyds to claim from the third partys insurer. 
Lloyds looked into the claim and found the third party said Mr R pulled out in front of them so 
were holding Mr R at fault for the accident. Because of this Lloyds looked at the information 
it had about the accident. Lloyds said there were no independent witnesses or CCTV so 
based its decision on the damage to both vehicles. It said as the damage could be 
consistent with either partys version of events it didnt think it could defend the claim if it 
went to court. Because of this Lloyds settled the claim on a 50/50 basis. Mr R didnt think 
this was fair and complained. 
Lloyds reviewed Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. It said there was a lot of pre-existing 
damage to Mr Rs van, so it made it difficult to say which damage was caused in the 
accident. Lloyds stood by its position that this wasnt a claim it could defend as it was Mr Rs 
word against the third partys. Mr R didnt agree so brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt find that Lloyds had done anything 
wrong. He said Lloyds had based its decision on the evidence available and as it was one 
word against another he didnt recommended Lloyds do anything different. Mr R disagreed, 
he said he was hit from behind while waiting in traffic so he shouldnt be held at fault. 
As Mr R disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide whos at fault for an accident as thats the role of the courts. Instead we look
to see that the insurer has made a fair and reasonable decision thats in line with the terms
and conditions of the policy.
Like most policies we see the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy give Lloyds the right to 
take over, defend or settle a claim as it sees fit. This might mean Lloyds makes a decision 
Mr R disagrees with, but the policy allows it. Ive considered whether Lloyds has done so 
fairly and reasonably.
Lloyds investigated Mr Rs claim by getting his and the third partys version of events along 
with assessing the damage to both vehicles. Lloyds said Mr Rs van had a lot of pre-existing 
damage on it, so it was difficult to say what was caused in the accident. And as the third 
party said Mr R had pulled out in front of them, it was their word against Mr Rs. 
I understand this will be disappointing to Mr R, but Im not persuaded that Lloyds has done
anything wrong. I say this because it reviewed all the evidence available about the
accident and because of the circumstance decided it wasnt a claim which would have
reasonable prospects of success if it went to court. Im satisfied because of this Lloyds has
made a fair and reasonable decision which is in line with the policy terms. So, Im not going
to interfere with Lloydss decision to settle this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman