DRN-3190827
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC Barclays didnt offer to pause charging 
him for a Travel Plus Pack whilst he was unable to use the benefits because of the impact of 
the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that Barclays had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions and asked for the matter to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having weighed everything up, I dont 
think Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr S received a call from Barclays in February 2021 and in that call it was established that 
Mr S was not getting much use out of the benefits on his Travel Plus Pack due to the 
impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr S asked if the monthly fees could be paused. 
However, Barclays said that it was unable to pause the monthly fees. 
Having considered this, I dont think Barclays was being unreasonable by not allowing Mr S 
to keep the Pack without charge. I say this because the Travel Plus Pack does not operate 
like a typical insurance policy. Rather than offering to provide cover for 12 months like a 
typical insurance policy would, it provides cover (and access to non-insurance benefits) on a 
monthly rolling basis. Therefore, Mr S was not locked into keeping it for a certain period of 
time and he was free to cancel it as soon as he felt it was no longer good value for money  
and Barclays explained this to him during the call. So I dont think Barclays was being 
unreasonable by saying that it can't offer him the opportunity to keep it for free until some 
future time when he might find it useful again.
I appreciate that at the time of the call, Barclays had stopped selling the Travel Plus pack. 
So there was a risk that if Mr S cancelled it, he might not be able to obtain it again. And 
indeed, it was subsequently removed from Barclays range of feature store packs in August 
2021. But I dont think that means Barclays was being unfair by not agreeing to Mr Ss 
request to waive the fees. After all, whilst Mr S may not have been using the Travel Plus 
Pack benefits, other Pack holders may still have been relying on the benefits and as 
mentioned above, he was free to cancel it at any time. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything to suggest that Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Barclays gave Mr S the choice of removing the Pack with the risk that he may not be able to 
obtain it again or he could choose to keep paying for the Pack in the hope hed be able to 
benefit from it at some point in the future. In the circumstances I dont think these are 
unreasonable options to have provided Mr S. So I dont think Barclays needs to do anything 
in relation to this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman