DRN-4186023
The complaint
Mr K complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt pay him a £200 incentive payment when 
he opened a current account with it.
What happened
Mr K applied for the HSBC advance account switch offer online. The scheme would pay 
customers £200 if they successfully switched their main current account to HSBC. Mr K said 
after applying, he received a text message stating that his previous bank had rejected the 
switch. He said he phoned his previous bank and was told it didnt receive any formal 
requests from HSBC. Mr K said he was told by a member of staff that the switch was 
unsuccessful because his previous bank was not based in the UK, but he said this was also 
incorrect. 
Mr K complained that he had to move his direct debits and incoming payments manually. He 
also said he didnt receive the account switch incentive payment. HSBC said it found no 
bank error and explained that his previous bank is not a member of the switching service. 
When Mr K brought his complaint to our service he said he should have been informed that 
his previous bank was not in the account switching list, and that since he followed the 
account switching procedure correctly he should be entitled to receive the £200 incentive. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said HSBC wasnt required 
to provide information about whether Mr Ks previous bank was part of the switching service 
as part of the application process. Our investigator also said this information is readily 
available online or in branch. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators opinion for the following reasons:
He says that the text messages he received from HSBC gave false information about 
the switching process. 
He says that in its final response letter, HSBC admitted a list of eligible banks should 
have been available when completing his account switch online. 
He also says that as it did not stop the new account opening or raise any queries, it 
meant it accepted the switch. 
Our investigator didnt change his opinion. He thought the wording of the text messages 
could have been clearer, but he didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong in informing Mr 
K the switch was unsuccessful. He said there wasnt enough information to prove Mr K was 
misinformed in the branch. Our investigator also said that as Mr Ks previous bank wasnt 
part of the switch service, HSBC couldnt obtain the £200 benefit and he thought this was 
consistent with the terms and conditions of the switch scheme. He said that he wouldnt 
expect HSBC to stop the account from opening. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for similar reasons. 
Ill explain why.   
The terms and conditions of the account switching incentive say: 
To qualify for the £200 switching offer customers must:
complete a full switch of their existing current account to us using the Current Account 
Switch Service (CASS)
HSBC doesnt think Mr K qualified for the incentive. Its not disputed that Mr Ks previous 
bank isnt a member of the Current Account Switching Service (CASS). I appreciate he says 
he followed the right procedure here, but as the switch couldnt be completed through CASS, 
I dont find what it said was unreasonable. 
The terms go further to say that a customer will not qualify for the offer if they complete a 
manual switch (e.g. if existing provider does not subscribe to CASS). Even though Mr K 
said he moved his direct debits and inbound payments over to the new account himself, Im 
satisfied doing so didnt qualify him for the incentive. 
Following his online application, Mr K received a message to inform him his new account 
had been opened, but I dont think that meant the account switch had been successful, nor 
was it a guarantee he qualified for the incentive. HSBC sent another letter a few days later 
informing him it was processing the switch and would be in contact if anything more was 
needed. I think it could be deduced from this that the opening of the new account wasnt an 
indication that the switch was effective. 
That said, HSBCs text message indicates that when it contacted Mr Ks previous bank his 
switch was rejected. I accept the text messages could have been clearer on the reason it 
was rejected, and I can understand why this might have caused some annoyance, but I dont 
think it changes things. Regardless of whether it contacted the other bank or not, I think that 
the key information is clear from the messages, which is that the account switch had been 
unsuccessful.
Ive not been provided enough information to determine whether Mr K was given the 
incorrect reason for the switch failing when he spoke with a staff member. Even if I accept it 
had made an error, I dont think that means it must pay the £200 incentive offered. This is 
because when a mistake is made, we usually ask the business to put the customer back in 
the position they would have been in, and I find Mr K would still have been in the same 
position he now finds himself in, as he had not met the criteria to be eligible for the incentive.
I understand that Mr K feels there should have been a system in place to stop him while he 
was completing his online application, and that he should have been informed his former 
bank was not part of the scheme during the process. I accept this might have been helpful to 
him, but this isnt currently part of HSBCs online application process. The systems and 
processes it has in places are a commercial decision its entitled to make, its not something I 
would look to interfere with. 
Unfortunately, using financial services wont always be hassle free and things can go wrong, 
but that doesnt always mean we think compensation is due. So although I accept that the reason the switch wasnt completed could have been made clear sooner, Im ultimately 
satisfied Mr K was informed in good time that it was unsuccessful. Once he was aware the 
switch couldnt be carried out, he had a choice either to continue to move his bank account 
or stay with his previous provider. Mr K opted to switch accounts manually, but I dont think 
that means HSBC must make the incentive payment to him. 
I know this be disappointing to Mr K, but I wont ask it to pay him £200. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I have decided I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman