DRN-3150709
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited held her liable for another 
drivers claim against her motor insurance policy. She wants her No Claims Discount (NCD) 
restored or compensation for the consequent increase in her premium.
 
What happened
Another insurer contacted Advantage to say that their insured had said that Mrs M had 
damaged their car and was at fault. Advantage asked Mrs M for details of the incident. But 
Mrs M denied involvement. She offered for Advantage to inspect her car for damage and to 
send in photographs to show her car was undamaged. But Advantage later settled the other 
drivers claim and recorded a fault against Mrs M. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. She thought 
Advantage hadnt investigated the claim sufficiently before accepting full liability and holding 
Mrs M at fault. She thought it wasnt able to provide evidence to show that the incident had 
caused any damage and that Mrs M was at fault. She thought it should further investigate 
the claim and this may change the claim status. She also thought it should pay Mrs M £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mrs M replied that she denied any liability for the claimed incident. She thought the claim 
was fraudulent. Mrs M asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs M feels frustrated that shes been held at fault for the other drivers 
claim when she denies any involvement. I can also understand that she feels upset about 
the effect the fault claim will have on her NCD.
The other insurer reported the incident to Advantage and said that Mrs M had caused 
damage of about £2,000 to their insureds car. Advantage was then required to investigate 
this claim. Later, the other insurer provided photographs of Mrs Ms car at the site of the 
alleged incident. In one of these photographs, the number plates of the two cars looked to be 
touching where they were parked nose to nose. So it seems established that Mrs Ms car 
was at the location and there was some sort of contact between the two cars. But what isnt 
clear is which car came into contact with the other or what damage was caused. 
It isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing an incident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy?
Advantage is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mrs M to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mrs M has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of a claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making a decision on liability. This is because of the effect a claim may 
have on the consumer. 
Advantage contacted Mrs M and asked for her version of events. Mrs M denied involvement 
and thought the claim was fraudulent. She said that her car was undamaged and offered it 
for inspection, but Advantage didnt take this up. She also sent in date stamped photographs 
of her car that she said showed it was undamaged. 
Mrs M later thought the position of the two cars in their parking bays showed that the other 
car hit her car. But I dont think this shows which car collided with the other, just how they 
were parked. 
I cant see that Advantage asked the other insurer for any details of the allegations to see 
what the other driver thought Mrs M had done wrong. It didnt ask for an engineers report to 
validate the claimed for damage. It didnt enquire if there was any further evidence, such as 
CCTV footage which Mrs M later established may have been available at the time. Instead, 
when the other insurer threatened litigation, Advantage settled the other drivers claim in full, 
paying about £1,500 on trust to the other insurer and holding Mrs M completely at fault. 
Advantage said that it didnt have any evidence to prove that the other driver was at fault. It 
also said that Mrs M hadnt provided any evidence it could use to defend her. But I think 
Advantage hadnt done enough to investigate the claim before deciding to settle it to avoid 
costs.
 It could, for example, have asked for the other drivers version of events and evidence of 
damage. It could have challenged the allegations with Mrs Ms denial and her photographs. 
It could have asked about CCTV footage. And so I dont think Advantage reasonably 
investigated the claim before making its decision on liability.
But I cant say what would have happened if Advantage had made a better investigation or if 
it would have led to a different outcome. And so I cant say, as Mrs M wishes, that 
Advantage should record the claim as bonus allowed (non-fault). As our Investigator has 
suggested, where there are differing versions of events and no further evidence, then a 
50/50 split liability outcome is common. This would, however, still lead to a fault being 
recorded against Mrs M. 
So, to treat Mrs M fairly, and in keeping with the policy terms and conditions, I think 
Advantage needs to re-open the claim and further investigate it. This may lead to a change 
in outcome for Mrs M. But I cant say whether this will show that she wasnt involved in the 
incident. And so I dont think Advantage needs to currently reinstate Mrs Ms NCD or refund 
Mrs M for any increase in her premium.
But I think the unreasonable investigation has caused Mrs M trouble and upset. The 
Investigator recommended that Advantage should pay Mrs M £100 compensation for this. I 
think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our published guidance.
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Reasonably investigate the claim and reconsider the claim status based on the further 
evidence found. 
2. Pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of the claim.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman