DRN-3678794
The complaint
Mr M complains about the information about his credit card account that Creation Financial 
Services Limited has recorded on his credit file.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2022 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
Mr M had a credit card account which was in arrears and he had other debts. He 
entered into a debt arrangement scheme in 2014 that included the debt that he owed 
to Creation Financial Services. The debt arrangement scheme was successfully 
completed in July 2021 but he says that Creation Financial Services was still 
recording adverse information about the account on his credit file. He complained to 
Creation Financial Services in August 2021 and it said that a request was sent to the 
credit bureaus in November 2021 to make the necessary amendments to his credit 
file. It apologised for the unnecessary delays in the information being updated and 
offered to pay £75 compensation to Mr M for the distress and inconvenience that he 
had suffered. Mr M wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that 
Creation Financial Services had sent an update to the credit bureaus and had offered 
£75 in recognition of its delay but he felt that there was no incorrect information on 
Mr Ms credit file. He said that he had no evidence to confirm whether or not the 
account was closed at the point of default and he felt that it was best for Mr M to 
confirm with Creation Financial Services the status of the account and then choose 
his next course of action.
Mr M has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has 
responded in detail and says, in summary and amongst other things, that the data 
that Creation Financial Services has recorded on his credit file remains incorrect and 
it has failed to update it  it states that his account is part of a debt management 
plan, shows it as open when it should be closed, shows missed payments and it 
should be removed after six years from the default date like the practice followed by 
the rest of the finance industry.
I set out my provisional findings in my provisional decision and said: I intend to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint for these reasons:
this service offers an informal dispute resolution service and we try to resolve 
complaints by customers about financial businesses by looking at what we consider 
to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances;
Creation Financial Services hasnt provided any information to this service about 
Mr Ms complaint so Ive considered all of the evidence and comments from Mr M but 
if I havent referred to any of them in my decision, its because Ive referred only to 
the evidence that I consider to me relevant for me to make that decision on his 
complaint;
Mr Ms credit card account with Creation Financial Services was included in the debt 
arrangement scheme that was successfully completed in July 2021 and Creation 
Financial Services says that it has updated the information that its provided to the 
credit reference agencies but Mr M says that the information is incorrect and that all 
references to the account should be removed;
hes provided two screenshots of his credit file with two different credit reference 
agencies  one shows the account as open with a zero balance and no other 
adverse information is shown but the other shows that the account is closed but that 
it was in a debt management plan that ended in November (without the year being 
specified);
the account was included in a debt arrangement scheme  not a debt management 
plan - and Mr Ms debt to Creation Financial Services was settled, but that doesnt 
mean that the account was closed;
Mr M hasnt provided any information to show that he asked for the account to be 
closed and Im not persuaded that Creation Financial Services was required to close 
the account when the debt arrangement scheme ended  but its clear that Mr M 
considers the account to be closed so, if it hasnt already done so, I find that Creation 
Financial Services should close Mr Ms account  the account can stay on Mr Ms 
credit file for up to six years from the date that its closed  but with no adverse 
information recorded about that account;
I consider that any information about the debt arrangement scheme should have 
been removed from Mr Ms credit file after it was completed in July 2021 so I find that 
Creation Financial Services should ensure that any information about a debt 
arrangement scheme (or a debt management plan) is removed from Mr Ms credit 
file;
I dont consider it to be appropriate for one credit reference agency to be showing the 
account as open and another to be showing it as closed so I find that it would also be 
fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Creation Financial Services to notify 
the credit reference agencies of the correct status of Mr Ms account and to ensure 
that no adverse information about that account is recorded on his credit file;
Creation Financial Services said in response to Mr Ms complaint to that a request 
was sent to the credit bureaus in November 2021 to make the necessary 
amendments to his credit file;
it apologised for the unnecessary delays in the information being updated and offered 
to pay £75 compensation to Mr M for the distress and inconvenience that he had 
suffered  but I consider that the distress and inconvenience that Mr M has been 
caused justifies a higher award of compensation and I find that total compensation of 
£200 (which includes the £75) would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
Creation Financial Services has confirmed that it has received my provisional decision and 
has no further information to add. Mr M says that the entries were removed from his credit 
file but have reappeared.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Creation Financial 
Services to take the actions described in my provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order Creation Financial Services Limited 
to:
1. Close Mr Ms credit card account (if it hasnt already done so).
2. Ensure that any information about the debt arrangement scheme (or a debt 
management plan) is removed from Mr Ms credit file.
3. Notify the credit reference agencies of the correct status of Mr Ms account and to 
ensure that no adverse information about that account is recorded on his credit file.
4. Pay total compensation of £200 (which includes the £75 compensation that its 
already offered to him) to Mr M to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience that hes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman