DRN-3516997
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that Kingswood Insurance Brokers Limited  trading as Pedal Cover  
didnt give him enough information when he renewed his insurance policy. So he thinks the 
policy was mis-sold to him.
What happened
Pedal Cover is the broker for Mr Hs insurance policy. Mr H complained to Pedal Cover after 
being told that the bicycle he wanted to make a claim for wasnt covered, because he hadnt 
specified it when he renewed his policy. Mr H says his previous policy didnt require him to 
specify each bicycle  and this is what attracted him to Pedal Cover in the first place. 
Mr H says Pedal cover didnt make the new requirements clear to him around the renewal 
period and points to the brokers website, that he said continued to indicate that not all 
bicycles needed specifying under the policy.
Pedal Cover explained that it had written to Mr H before the renewal, advising that there had 
been a change in the underwriter and that he needed to provide details of the bicycles he 
wanted covered under the policy. The broker also advised it would amend its website 
information for clarity.
Remaining unhappy, Mr H asked this service to get involved and asks that the broker pay 
him the costs to replace his bicycle. One of our investigators decided that Pedal Cover had 
made it clear to Mr H that he needed to specify all his bicycles. Mr H didnt agree and asked 
for a final decision  so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint  my reasons are as follows:
Prior to the policy renewal, Mr H was sent a renewal email in July 2021. This email 
sets out that the policy had been developed so bicycles are now specified rather than 
being packaged into the overall contents cover element of the policy. The email 
requests that Mr H provides details of the make and model of each of his bicycles.
Mr H was sent another renewal reminder in August, which sets out that the policy 
cover had been moved to a new underwriter.
Ive seen a copy of the relevant section of Pedal Covers customer portal that Mr H 
completed as part of the renewal process. I can see here that Mr H was asked to add 
all his bicycles.
Mr H was provided with a copy of his new policy schedule ahead of the renewal date. 
I can see from this that Mr H specified two bicycles and the schedule sets out that 
this section confirms the details you provided for pedal cycles covered under this 
policy.
Mr H refers to an online chat he had with one of Pedal Covers agents and says the 
agent shouldve made it clearer to him that he needed to specify all his bicycles. I 
share the investigators stance on this  looking at the conversation that took place, I 
cant see anything that makes me think the agent should have reasonably known that 
he needed to point this out to Mr H, given the issues discussed were unrelated.
Mr Hs comments about the information on Pedal Covers website doesnt give me 
cause to uphold this complaint. Mr H only referred to the website after Pedal Cover 
pointed out that the bicycle Mr H wanted to claim for wasnt specified under the policy 
 so it wasnt covered. So I dont think the information on Pedal Covers website 
made a difference to what the broker specifically told Mr H at the time of renewal.
So, Im of the view that, ahead of the policy renewal, Pedal Cover provided clear enough 
information to Mr H for him to reasonably understand that he needed to specify all the 
bicycles he wished to insure. So I dont think Pedal Cover has treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman