DRN-3079992
The complaint
 Mrs M complains that Wesleyan Assurance Society didnt pay her the surrender value for 
her investment bond calculated as at the date she was led to believe would be used.
What happened
Mrs M spoke to Wesleyan on 17 March 2020 asking it to provide the value of her Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) and her Investment Bond. She was given a value of £59,620 for the 
bond, based on the valuation the previous day.
She sent Wesleyan a pro-forma surrender form on 18 March 2020 with the figure of £59,620 
specified. There was subsequent call between Mrs Ms husband (Mr M) and her adviser 
when the valuation date was discussed, although there is no recording of that call.
Mrs Ms bond wasnt surrendered on receipt of the form. Instead Wesleyan sent her a 
surrender pack on 24 April 2020. This included a claim form she needed to complete which 
specified a figure of £56,962 as the surrender value.  
Wesleyan actioned the surrender on receiving the claim from and policy document and Mrs 
M received a surrender value of £55,719 based on the value as at 12 noon on 31 March 
2020.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint upholding it. I didnt think Wesleyan had 
provided clear information to Mrs M about the surrender of her policy and it had continued to 
provide incorrect information during the complaint.
I wasnt satisfied that it was appropriate to award redress based on what the value of the 
bond was on 19 March 2020 and wasnt satisfied Mrs M had suffered a loss. I awarded £250 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by her being provided with unclear information.
A copy of the findings in my provisional decision is set out below and forms part of this final 
decision:
Having listened to the conversation Mrs M had with Wesleyan on 17 March 2020 she 
was told that the valuation of £59,620 was based on the previous days valuation and she 
wouldnt necessarily get that amount. So, I am satisfied she was aware that she wasnt 
guaranteed to get that figure.
However, the person Mrs M spoke to did tell her that all she needed to do if she wanted to 
access the money was to withdraw this and if she did it that day there would be no Market 
Value Reduction (MVR)  something the person Mrs M spoke to had suggested could 
reduce the amount she got.
That person also said to Mrs M that if she applied to withdraw that day before 4pm then the 
valuation would be based on the value that day. There was no mention of the valuation 
being delayed because of the need to provide documentation or for any other reason. The 
impression given in my view is that it was simple and straightforward for Mrs M to get hold 
of her money.
Wesleyan is not able to provide a recording of the telephone discussion that subsequently 
took place between Mr M and the adviser about surrender. However, in its FRL it referred 
to having confirmed in a telephone call with Mr M on 7 April 2020 that he had been given 
the incorrect information about the date of valuation in the call between him and the 
adviser. So, it seems to have accepted it provided incorrect information about this.
I acknowledge it also referred to the adviser saying the figure wasnt guaranteed - I take 
this to mean the £59,620 given to Mrs M on 17 March 2020 - and that Wesleyan may 
need a signature along with other documents. However, it seems to me that what the 
adviser said wouldnt necessarily have alerted Mrs M to the fact that this would mean the 
valuation wouldnt be as at 19 March 2020.
I think Mrs M sent the pro forma form to Wesleyan on 18 March 2020 in the belief that she 
would get the value of her bond as midday on 19 March 2020. It isnt in dispute this didnt 
then happen because Wesleyan required Mrs M to provide further information, namely the 
original policy document.
I note it also suggested to us that it needed her to provide a bank statement for the 
account she wanted the money paid into. But the pro forma form states that:
If you wish payment to be made to a bank account we do not hold on file you will need to 
attach an original bank statement (to this request) which shows your name, address, sort 
code, account number and any other reference/roll numbers. If this is not attached then we 
will make payment by cheque.
So, I dont accept that Wesleyan needed a bank statement before valuing the bond for the 
purposes of surrender.
As for the requirement for the policy document I note the terms of the bond include:
You can cash in all of the units in your policy at any time. This will end your policy. You 
must notify us in writing, of your intention to do this. We will ask you to send us the policy 
and proof of ownership before we pay anything out.
However, whilst this shows the policy had to be provided to pay out to Mrs M it doesnt 
make clear that the policy document was needed before it would value the bond for the 
purposes of surrender.
The terms do go on to state that:
We will calculate the cash value of the policy using the unit price on the day after we 
receive your written instructions together with all necessary documentation to support the 
instructions.
And the pro form also states that:
It may not always be possible to process your request based on the information provided 
depending on the type of policy you hold or the amount you wish to withdraw and therefore 
a claim form may need to be issued.
However, I am not satisfied that this information would have necessarily made Mrs M 
aware that the valuation applied to her bond wouldnt be the 19 March 2020 value as I 
think she had been led to believe it would be.
I think even the claim form Mrs M was subsequently sent wasnt clear. This showed a 
cash- in value of £56,962 and the claim form states that this value is (my emphasis) the 
amount you will receive if you decide to cancel your plan before then stating the amount 
isnt guaranteed and could be higher or lower. It seems to me this information is at best confusing and at worst misleading. Stating that 
the amount specified is the amount you will receive is clearly wrong as there is no 
certainty about what will be received. This depends entirely on the valuation on the date 
the claim form is received and actioned. The valuation in the claim form has no bearing on 
the valuation that will be applied at the point the claim form is received by Wesleyan.
I can see no basis for specifying that the amount set out in the claim form is an amount 
that will be received, and I dont think this is cured by a subsequent statement that the 
amount isnt guaranteed. These two statements are conflicting and there is every 
possibility a client could concentrate on the statement that they will get the amount 
specified and not taken any notice of the subsequent statement.
Overall, I dont think the information provided by Wesleyan over the telephone or in writing 
to Mrs M was clear, fair and not misleading. It has continued to provide conflicting 
information to our service about what happened. I have referred above to its inaccurate 
statement that a claim form was needed because a bank statement wasnt provided. But it 
also initially said to us that the reason the surrender pack was s y was a joint policy, when 
the policy was in Mrs Ms name only.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any further information they 
wanted me to consider. Mrs M, in summary, made the following key points:
It was Mr M not Mrs M that spoke to Wesleyan on 17 March 2020 and she only 
recalls giving it permission to speak to him.
The surrender pack was sent on 24 March 2020 not 24 April 2020.
The ombudsman has referred to two telephone conversations but there was only 
one.
It is significant that in the telephone call of 17 March 2020 it was stated if they 
withdrew that day there would be no MVR.
Given what was said she was entitled to conclude that the pro-forma she sent on 18 
March 2020 would fix the value on the day of receipt and it seems what was said 
after 18 March 2020 is now irrelevant.
The result of my findings that the bond wasnt in joint names, that Wesleyan didnt 
need a bank statement and that it wasnt clear they needed the policy document is 
that it has offered no valid explanation for the failure to fix the valuation as at 19 
March 2020.
Based on my findings the position as she sees it is that Wesleyan are contractually 
bound by the pro-forma.
On that basis what she would or wouldnt have done had she had received the 
correct information is irrelevant.
Her complaint now includes that Wesleyan failed to act on the contract to surrender 
made on 18 March 2020 and she is entitled to the value as at 12 noon on 19 March 
2020.
She doesnt recall the figure of £56,962 stated in the surrender pack and had no 
reason to pay attention to it as the valuation date had already been triggered. 
I have awarded £250 for distress and inconvenience but Wesleyan should face a 
much more severe sanction for the catalogue of mistakes and evasions I have 
referred to.
I apologised to Mrs M for the typographical error over the dates she had referred to. I also 
made her aware that in the call of 17 March 2020, whilst Mr M initially spoke to Wesleyan 
about his own ISA, he then passed the phone to Mrs M who proceeded to discuss her ISA 
and the bond with Wesleyan. It was in that discussion that there was mention of an MVR. Mrs M was provided with a copy of the call at her request. She has not provided any further 
information in relation to this call.
I also explained to Mrs M why the findings in my provisional decision didnt establish a 
separate contractual obligation for Wesleyan to pay the value of the bond as at 19 March 
2020. I provide further explanation about this in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have already said and confirmed to Mrs M, I made a simple typographical error where I 
used the date 24 April 2020 when I should have said 24 March 2020. This has no bearing on 
my findings.
Mrs M misremembered discussing her bond with Wesleyan on 17 March 2020. I dont think 
this is surprising given the time since the call and this has no bearing on what I have set out 
in my provisional decision.
Mrs M has suggested that the consequence of my findings is that Wesleyan are 
contractually bound by the pro-forma to pay the valuation as of 19 March 2020. I have 
explained to her that my findings dont establish a separate contractual agreement that 
Wesleyan would pay the value of the bond as of 19 March 2020.
The findings in my provisional decision relate to Mrs M not being provided with clear, fair and 
not misleading information. I have made no finding that Wesleyan were contractually bound 
to apply the valuation as of 19 March 2020 because it received the pro-forma on that day.
So that it is clear, I am not satisfied that the unclear information Mrs M was given about the 
valuation of the bond means a separate contractual agreement arose that valuation would 
take place on 19 March 2020. 
Whether Wesleyan should have applied the valuation as at the date it received the pro-forma 
on 19 March 2020 is dependent on what the terms say. As I said in my provisional decision, 
the terms state under the heading 5. Cash in:
You can cash in all of the units of your policy at any time. This will end your policy. You 
must notify us in writing of your intention to do this. We will ask you to send us the policy and 
proof of ownership before we pay anything out.
We will calculate the cash value of the policy using the unit price on the day after we receive 
your written instructions together with all necessary documentation to support the 
instructions.
I said I wasnt satisfied that Mrs M would necessarily have been aware from the terms that 
the valuation applied to the bond wouldnt be the 19 March 2020 valuation. That was a 
comment about her understanding not the meaning of the terms. And the fact she may not 
have understood form the terms that valuation wouldnt take place on 19 March 2020 does 
not mean that is the date of valuation. 
The effect of the terms set out above is that Wesleyan only had to value the bond once it 
had received both the written notification that she wanted to bring the bond to an end and 
the documentation to support that, being the policy document. The pro-forma gave notice Mrs M wanted to cash in her bond, but the policy wasnt provided 
with it. So, there was no requirement for Wesleyan to value the bond as of 19 March 2020. 
From what I have seen it valued the bond in accordance with the terms once the policy was 
received. 
In summary, I am not satisfied that Wesleyan was required to value the bond on 19 March 
2020 because Mrs M was under the impression from the information that she had been 
given this would be the date of valuation. I dont think it did anything wrong in valuing the 
bond once it received the policy.
Putting things right
Whilst I am satisfied that Wesleyan has valued the bond properly, based on the instruction it 
had been given, the possibility arises that Mrs M might not have gone ahead with cashing in 
her bond if she hadnt been given unclear information as to when valuation would take place. 
I have considered that issue, but I am not persuaded she wouldnt still have gone ahead with 
cashing in the bond.
In reaching that conclusion I am mindful that she didnt know what she would get when she 
completed the pro-forma. She was aware from the telephone conversation of 17 March 2020 
that the figure of £59,620 was based on the previous days value and wasnt guaranteed. 
Despite not knowing what she would get she went ahead with cashing in her bond. 
Im also mindful that she signed the claim form which specified a significantly lower figure 
(£56,962) than the figure she had been given on 17 March 2020. I note she has said she 
doesnt recall seeing the figure in the claim form and has also said that she had no reason to 
note this as she believed the valuation date had already been triggered. 
However, Im mindful that Mrs M misremembered speaking to Wesleyan on 17 March 2020. 
So her memory of what happened at the time isnt complete. And whilst I accept that she 
may not now recall seeing the figure I think it is unlikely she didnt do so. 
I think she would have had reason to take note at the time of any figure she was provided 
with give she didnt know what the valuation for 19 March 2020 was. Given the significant 
difference between the value as at 17 March 2020 and the value in the claim form, I think it 
is more likely than not what was important to her was surrendering rather than obtaining a 
certain amount. 
I am also mindful that when she spoke to Wesleyan, she expressed her concern about her 
bond dropping in value. I am satisfied that her decision to surrender the bond arose from 
that concern. Given this, I am not persuaded she wouldnt have gone ahead with 
surrendering if she had been made aware valuation wouldnt take place on 19 March 2020 
but on a later date.
In the circumstances I am not going to ask Wesleyan to pay Mrs M redress on the basis she 
has suffered a loss as a result of not being provided with clear and fair information. However, 
I do think she has been caused some distress and inconvenience as a result of this and I am 
going to award her £250 for this.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs M said that Wesleyan should suffer a much more 
severe sanction for its catalogue of mistakes and evasions. I acknowledge what she has 
said, but it is not part of my role to sanction a business when it has got something wrong. 
The award I have made is only for the distress and inconvenience Mrs M was caused. I am 
satisfied an award of £250 is reasonable for Wesleyan not making clear how and when valuation of her bond would take place.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained. Wesleyan Assurance Society must 
pay Mrs M £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman