DRN-4182646
The complaint
V complains Kingsbridge Risk Solutions Ltd trading as Kingsbridge Contractor Insurance 
(Kingsbridge) mis-sold it legal expenses insurance.
V is represented by a director whom Ill call Mr S.
What happened
In mid-March 2022 Kingsbridge arranged contractor insurance for V with Mr S. Mr S decided 
not to take out legal expenses insurance (LEI) at the time. But in May he decided to add LEI 
and spoke to Kingsbridge. They could only arrange LEI as an add-on to another policy. So, 
they cancelled Vs existing policy and issued a new one that included LEI. The policy began 
on 12 May 2022.
On around 17 May 2022 Mr S made a claim under the LEI cover for the costs of pursuing a 
claim against a client in relation to unpaid invoices. The insurer declined the claim on 
grounds the policy excluded cover for debts that existed before the insurance began. Mr S 
rang Kingsbridge at the beginning of June to discuss the insurers response.
Mr S was unhappy Kingsbridge gave a different reason to the insurer as to why the claim 
had been declined. They mentioned claims within the first 90 days of the policy were 
excluded. He felt that contradicted what hed been told when hed bought the policy as 
Kingsbridge had said cover would start straight away. He complained on behalf of V that 
Kingsbridge had mis-sold the policy.
Kingsbridge rejected Mr Ss complaint. They said, in summary:
the policy theyd arranged in March didnt have LEI;
theyd explained to Mr S in April he didnt have cover to pursue an unpaid invoice 
since he didnt have LEI. They could arrange LEI, but it wouldnt cover a claim 
relating to the unpaid invoice since he was already aware of a circumstance that 
could lead to a claim;
when Mr S had arranged LEI in May, theyd explained they didnt issue standalone 
LEI policies, so they needed to cancel the existing policy and issue a new one with 
LEI as an add-on. Theyd said the policy would start straight away but there was a 
14-day cooling off period in which V could make amendments if it wished. Theyd 
pointed out that any claims V was already aware of wouldnt be covered under the 
policy. And Mr S had said there werent any claims he was aware of that would lead 
to a claim.
Since Mr S was unhappy with Kingsbridges response, he brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator said Vs position hadnt been prejudiced by 
anything Kingsbridge told Mr S when they arranged the LEI. Thats because the claim was 
declined on grounds there was no cover for debts that existed before inception; and no LEI 
policy would have provided that cover.
Since Mr S on behalf of V didnt agree, Vs complaint was passed to me to decide. I recently 
issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the impact the unpaid invoices have had on Vs business. However, 
whilst I understand Mr S will be disappointed, Ive come to the same view as our 
investigator. Since my reasons are more detailed and different in part to hers, Im issuing a 
provisional decision to give the parties the chance to make further comments before I come 
to a final decision.
Kingsbridge werent advising Mr S on the insurance he was taking out for V. So, they didnt 
have to ensure it met Vs needs. But they were obliged to provide information that was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that Mr S could decide whether or not to buy the policy.
In March 2022, Mr S spoke to Kingsbridge about reinstating a policy hed previously put in 
place and had cancelled during the cooling off period. He discussed with Kingsbridge then 
adding LEI. But he decided against it on grounds of cost.
In late April Mr S rang Kingsbridge twice to check the cover V had under the existing policy. 
On the first call Mr S said V had an unpaid invoice from a client. Kingsbridge said Vs 
existing policy wouldnt cover a claim for that since it didnt have LEI; they explained broadly 
what LEI would cover; and they said a claim for an unpaid invoice would probably fall within 
the debt recovery section of LEI cover. They explained it would be necessary to issue a new 
policy if Mr S wanted to include LEI. And they said an existing dispute wouldnt be covered 
under any new policy. On the second call Kingsbridge explained Vs existing policy would 
cover the costs of defending a professional indemnity claim that might be brought against it.
On 12 May Mr S rang to take out LEI. Kingsbridge said theyd need to cancel the existing 
policy and issue a new one with LEI included. They explained broadly the cover the LEI 
would provide. They confirmed the new policy would provide cover straight away. 
Kingsbridge said Mr S would have a 14-day cooling off period in which he could make 
amendments if he wanted to. And Mr S would be provided with the policy documents and 
policy wording to check. Kingsbridge asked Mr S if there were any pending legal claims and 
told him the LEI wouldnt cover any that existed before the policy started. Mr S said there 
werent. And when Kingsbridge asked if Mr S was aware of any existing circumstance that 
might lead to a claim under the policy, he said he wasnt.
Im satisfied Kingsbridge gave Mr S on behalf of V information about the LEI that was clear, 
fair and not misleading when he spoke to them. It wouldnt have been practical to go into the 
detailed policy provisions over the phone. They explained broadly the types of claim the LEI 
would cover. They directed Mr S to the policy wording. And they explained Mr S could 
amend the policy within the 14-day cooling off period if it didnt provide the cover V required.
Its reasonable to expect Mr S to have reviewed the policy wording to check he had the 
cover he needed for V. The LEI policy wording set out clearly that a debt that existed before 
the policy began was excluded from the debt recovery section. That reflected the information 
Kingsbridge had given Mr S over the phone. Mr S had the chance of checking that and the 
other policy terms, conditions and exclusions during the cooling off period. Mr S had already 
cancelled the policy which hed reinstated in March. So, he was aware of how the cooling off 
period worked. And Kingsbridge had explained it in any event.I dont think Kingsbridge gave Mr S any inaccurate information about when the policy started 
or the cooling off period as Mr S suspects. I think he misunderstood what Kingsbridge told 
him when he rang to complain in early June. Although Kingsbridge referred to the 90-day 
exclusion then, they werent suggesting Vs claim had been declined on that basis. They 
explained they werent aware of the details of the claim V had made or the insurers reasons 
for declining it at the time. They were simply mentioning what the standard LEI policy 
wording said.
Kingsbridge were right to say the policy began in May. But, in common with other LEI 
policies, it didnt provide cover for everything that might happen. And it was subject to 
various terms, conditions and exclusions. Kingsbridge had made it clear to Mr S that        
pre-existing disputes werent covered. He went ahead with the policy knowing that. He had 
the chance to check the policy during the cooling off period. If he was unhappy with the 
cover hed bought, he could have cancelled it then.
Given everything, I dont think Mr S was induced to buy the policy because of anything 
Kingsbridge said. And I dont think Kingsbridge mis-sold the policy to V. Even if I thought 
they had, I dont think V was disadvantaged. Thats because Mr S told Kingsbridge V had no 
existing disputes and he wasnt aware of any circumstances which would lead to a claim. He 
said in June he didnt agree with the insurer that a claim had existed when he took the policy 
out since the client hadnt defaulted by then. And he said he hadnt arranged the LEI with 
pursuing a claim for the unpaid invoices in mind. So, I think he would have gone ahead and 
bought the LEI in any event. Its possible Mr S would have bought LEI through another 
provider. But LEI policies are designed to cover future events and uncertain risks, not 
inevitable or existing events like the unpaid invoices that existed before the policy began. So 
even if he had bought cover elsewhere, hes unlikely to have been covered for a claim 
relating to the unpaid invoices.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr S will be disappointed, I dont intend to 
uphold Vs complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party had any comments to make on my provisional decision. So, I see no reason to 
change my outcome. For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman