DRN-4169943
The complaint
Mrs and Mr W complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined their travel insurance claim. 
My references to Great Lakes include its agents.
What happened
On 24 January 2022 Mr W took out a single trip travel insurance policy for himself and his 
wife, the relevant part of the policy was insured by Great Lakes. The policy cover started on 
9 April 2022 and ended 16 April 2022.
The policy was to cover a trip abroad with family. In February 2022 Mrs and Mr Ws adult 
daughter, who was also going on the trip, was diagnosed with cancer so the trip was 
cancelled. Mrs and Mr W claimed for their unused flight costs.
Great Lakes declined the claim for two reasons. First, it said the policy only covered trip 
cancellation if the illness causing the cancellation was unforeseen. Mrs and Mr W daughter's 
medical certificate from her GP showed her initial consultation in relation to the illness was 
19 January 2022 and as Mrs and Mr W bought their policy after that date Great Lakes said it 
could reasonably consider that the cancellation due to the illness could have been foreseen. 
Second, as Mrs and Mr W selected to start the policy from 9 April 2022 and the trip was 
cancelled before that date there was no policy cover when the trip was cancelled anyway.
Mrs and Mr W complained to us saying they didnt foresee their daughters diagnosis and 
having to cancel the trip. They want Great Lakes to pay their claim.
Our investigator said Great Lakes had unfairly declined Mrs and Mr Ws claim and 
recommended it pay the claim plus interest.
Great Lakes disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. 
Im very sorry to read that Mrs and Mr Ws daughter passed away.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that insurers should handle claims promptly 
and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
I uphold this complaint as I think Great Lakes unreasonably declined the claim. Ill explain 
why.
Great Lakes final response letter said there was no cancellation cover in place as Mrs and 
Mr W had selected their policy to start from 9 April 2022 and the cancellation happened 
before the policy started. Great Lakes cant correctly decline the claim on that basis. Mrs and 
Mr W bought a single trip policy on 24 January 2022 and the policy certificate says: 
Cancellation cover for a single trip policy will begin immediately after booking your policy.
The trip was cancelled after 24 January 2022 so cancellation cover was in place at the time 
the trip was cancelled.
The policy terms say under the cancellation section that Great Lakes will pay up to the 
relevant policy limits:
per insured person for your non-refundable deposits and amounts you have paid (or you are 
contracted to pay), for your travel and accommodationbecause of the following:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companionsuffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
Great Lakes says as Mrs and Mr Ws daughter's initial consultation for the condition was 
19 January 2022, which was five days before they bought the policy, the illness must have 
been foreseen. But Mr W has told us he first became aware of his daughters illness after her 
diagnosis, which the medical certificate says wasnt until 11 February 2022, after they 
bought the policy.
The medical certificate also says:
Mrs and Mr Ws daughter had no previous history of cancer or a related condition.
At the date of the policy their daughter wasnt waiting for any inpatient treatment or 
on a waiting list for treatment and at the date the policy was taken out she was fit to 
travel. 
If the patient wasnt travelling, the travelling person couldnt have foreseen or 
anticipated any possibility that the medical condition could have caused cancellation 
of the trip either when the trip was booked or when the policy was taken out.
Im satisfied that the medical evidence Ive seen supports Mr Ws evidence that their 
daughters illness was unforeseen to them when they bought the policy. Our investigator 
asked Great Lakes if it had any evidence to support its belief that Mrs and Mr Ws daughter 
illness was foreseen at the relevant time and it hasnt provided any other evidence.
Based on the evidence Ive seen I dont think Great Lakes has shown it reasonably 
concluded that the trip cancellation happened because of Mrs and Mr Ws daughters 
foreseen illness. Im satisfied that an insured event occurred - the cancellation of the trip due 
to an unforeseen illness of a close relative and travelling companion. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes must pay Mrs and Mr Ws claim plus interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mrs and Mr Ws claim 
plus interest* at 8% simple from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs and Mr W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman