DRN-2873229
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1989. Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Bs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. The policy was arranged during a meeting. I cant say for 
certain what the discussions involved. Santander has provided a copy of the mortgage 
application. Within this application there is a section for PPI and it has been selected by 
Mr and Mrs B. This indicates that there was a discussion about PPI and whether Mr and 
Mrs B wanted to protect their mortgage repayments. The mortgage application form has 
also been signed, and I wouldve expected them to query anything within it before doing 
so. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely Mr and Mrs B knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them. And the evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time, shows that 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr B was 
eligible for the cover and he didnt have any other means to fall back on, such as 
enhanced employee benefits or savings, so he had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Bs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical conditions 
that could affect his ability to claim. From what I can see there were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health and back problems.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr B as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information  they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and 
Mrs B would have declined the cover had Santander done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs B would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy 
could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I 
also think the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were 
getting. And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in 
any event.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Bs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Santander doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman