DRN-3565518
The complaint
Mrs O complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid Mastercard lent irresponsibly when it 
approved her credit card application and went on to increase the credit limit. 
What happened
Mrs O applied for a Fluid credit card in March 2020. Mrs Os application said she was 
employed with an income of £16,000. Fluid carried out a credit search and found Mrs S 
owed around £4,700 in other unsecured borrowing. Mrs O said she was a homeowner but 
didnt give any details of a mortgage. Fluid says it found no adverse information, recent 
arrears or defaults on Mrs Os credit card. 
The credit card application was approved with an initial credit limit of £1,200. In July 2020 
Fluid increased the credit limit to £1,950. 
Last year, Mrs O complained that Fluid had lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit 
card application and later increased the credit limit. Fluid sent Mrs O a final response but 
didnt uphold her complaint. An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Os complaint and 
upheld it. They thought Fluid shouldve carried out better checks before increasing Mrs Os 
credit limit to £1,950. 
Fluid didnt agree with the investigators view and asked to appeal so Mrs Os complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Fluid had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Mrs O could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These 
affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of 
whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement;
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
Fluid collected various pieces of information about Mrs O during the application process. Mrs 
O said she was a homeowner, employed and earned £16,000. Mrs O also said there was 
other household income and Fluid looked at her credit file. Fluid has shared the results of its 
credit search and I can see if found around £4,700 in unsecured credit. The application was 
approved with a credit limit of £1,200 in March 2020.
In my view, the checks Fluid completed before approving the credit card application were 
reasonable and proportionate. I havent been persuaded that Fluid lent irresponsibly when it 
approved the credit limit of £1,200. 
The credit limit was increased to £1,950 four months after the credit card was opened. 
During that time, Mrs Os unsecured credit had increased from £4,700 to around £5,400. Mrs 
O exceeded the credit limit in May 2020, incurring a fee. And Mrs O used her credit card 
every month to withdraw cash, taking out £240 during April 2020 alone. Whilst the credit 
cards terms allow Mrs O to withdraw cash, I think using that facility every month for the first 
four months of the credit card indicated Mrs O was struggling financially and had become 
reliant on credit. Taken together, the above factors shouldve caused Fluid to carry out more 
comprehensive checks before deciding to increase Mrs Os credit limit.  
Had Fluid carried out better checks, I think it wouldve found Mrs O was unable to 
sustainably repay further debt and declined to proceed. In my view, Fluid lent irresponsibly 
when it increased Mrs Os credit limit to £1,950. As I think Fluid lent irresponsibly, Im going 
to uphold Mrs Os complaint and direct it to refund all interest, fees and charges applied to 
balances over £1,200 from the date of the credit limit increase onwards. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Os complaint and direct NewDay trading as Fluid 
Mastercard to settle as follows: 
- rework the account to ensure that from July 2020 interest is only charged on the first 
£1,200 outstanding - to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should 
have been provided
- if an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made Fluid 
should contact Mrs O to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this
- if no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information should be removed from 
the credit file
AND
- if the refund brings means theres no remaining balance, any extra should be treated 
as overpayments and returned to Mrs O
AND
- pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlementUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman