DRN-2902776
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund him two payments made from his 
current account as the result of a scam.
What happened
In 2019, Mr S was the unfortunate victim of a scam. He had been looking to complete some 
work on a bathroom in his house when he was recommended a builder by the showroom he 
had used to purchase some fixtures and fittings. Mr S contacted the builder and a contract 
was agreed via email. Mr S was told the total cost of the work would be around £9,500 but if 
he paid a higher deposit upfront, this would reduce the overall cost. Mr S agreed and on 31 
March 2019 he transferred £2,375 to the builders account, followed by a further £2,375 on 2 
April 2019. Mr S and the builder agreed work would start on 17 April 2019. 
By May 2019, the work had not yet begun and Mr S had been provided with various 
excuses. On 31 May 2019, the builder visited Mr Ss property and completed a minimal 
amount of work before asking Mr S for a further £1,200 for supplies. Mr S declined to make 
the full payment and transferred a further £500. 
No further work was completed and Mr S requested his deposit back. Finally, after much 
back and forth, the builder responded to Mr S to say he had been declared bankrupt. It later 
came to light that the builder had taken the payments from Mrs S once bankruptcy 
proceedings had already been started and likely when he wouldve known that he was not in 
a position to complete the work agreed. 
Mr S contacted TSB to let them know what had happened and TSB told Mr S it would refund 
the final £500 payment he had made as this had been made after its Fraud Guarantee had 
come into place  it wouldnt be possible to refund the two earlier payments, as these were 
made prior to the Fraud Guarantee coming into force. TSB said it would get in touch with the 
receiving bank to see if it was possible to retrieve any of the remainder of Mr Ss funds. But 
unfortunately, the receiving bank contacted TSB and said no funds remained. TSB said it 
was unable to help Mr S further. 
Mr S also raised a complaint about not being able to access his account statements for 
around a month in 2018 due to some problems with TSBs IT systems. Mr S says this 
prevented him from purchasing his first home as he was unable to provide evidence of 
funds. TSB offered 
Mr S £100 for any inconvenience caused and invited him to provide evidence of any further 
costs incurred.
Unhappy with TSBs response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt think it would be fair to ask TSB 
to refund the first two payments under its Fraud Guarantee because it wasnt in place at the 
time. And so she went onto consider if there was anything TSB couldve done to prevent the 
scam before the payments left Mr Ss account. But she felt there wasnt anything about the 
payments themselves that meant TSB shouldve questioned Mr S about them before it 
allowed them to leave his account. And she didnt think there was anything more TSB 
couldve done once notified that Mr S had been the victim of a scam either  the funds had 
already been removed from the beneficiary account by the time TSB were notified of the 
scam.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion, he said the builder was already in financial 
trouble when the payments were made and TSB shouldve known this and prevented the 
payments leaving his account. As an agreement could not be reached, the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the opinion reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
TSBs Fraud Guarantee came into force on 14 April 2019 and so wasnt in place 
when Mr S made the initial two payments and it is not retrospective. Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to recommend TSB refund Mr S under a guarantee 
that wasnt in place at the time.  
Ive then thought about whether the payments Mr S made were out of character 
and unusual for his account but I dont think I can say they were. Mr S had made 
similar payments in the months prior to the scam. And I also need to keep in 
mind that these are not untypical amounts for consumers to transfer when 
making payments of this nature.
Ive also thought about the fact the payments were sent to a new payee. 
However, I dont find that a payment to a new payee is in itself suspicious 
enough to mean that TSB shouldve considered that Mr S was at risk of financial 
harm and contacted him before it made the payments at his  request.
It is important for me to stress that banks have to strike a balance between 
processing payments as per their customers instructions and monitoring 
accounts for unusual and potentially harmful activity. And I dont think it would 
be fair to say that TSB shouldve identified the payments Mr S made as 
suspicious enough to warrant further checks  especially given that they were 
for a relatively small amount.
Ive also thought about whether TSB couldve done more to help Mr S once it 
was notified of the scam but I dont think it could. TSB contacted the receiving 
bank upon notification of the scam. But, unfortunately by this point, all of Mr Ss 
funds had been removed from the receiving account. 
I acknowledge what Mr S has said about the builder being declared bankrupt 
prior to the scam payments being made. But I dont think that makes a material 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. TSB would not have known this at 
time and it wouldnt be possible for TSB to carry out financial checks on the 
recipients of its customers funds. And so Im not persuaded it would now be fair 
and reasonable for me to hold TSB liable for Mr Ss loss.
Im also satisfied that the £100 compensation offered to Mr S for the 
inconvenience caused by TSBs system failings is fair. Ive taken into account 
what Mr S has told me about losing out on various properties as he was unable 
to provide evidence of the funds available in his account. But Mr S hasnt been 
able to provide me with any persuasive evidence that shows he lost out on 
these properties as a direct consequence of TSBs actions. And it wouldnt be fair for me recommend TSB increase its offer without seeing evidence that the 
loss of these properties was a direct result of TSBs failings. 
I am very sorry to hear about the situation Mr S has found himself in. I appreciate that he has 
lost a lot of money and damage has been caused to his property. But I dont think his loss 
was caused by any specific failing on behalf of TSB. The fault here lies with the fraudster. 
And as the loss took place prior to the implementation of TSBs Fraud Guarantee, I cant 
fairly ask TSB to refund Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman