DRN-3504095
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him incorrect information about a recalled 
payment that he says caused him a significant financial loss. 
What happened
Mr G had a personal account with HSBC. In March 2020 he made a payment of £25,000 
from his account into a pension with another company, that Ill refer to as S. Shortly after 
he made the payment, he realised he had made an error and should have made the 
payment from his business account. He called HSBC on the same day and asked for the 
payment to be recalled, which it agreed to do. He asked HSBC if the money would be 
returned to him and it confirmed that it would.
However, the money wasnt returned and after some time HSBC told Mr G that the recall 
had been unsuccessful, and the funds wouldnt be returned. Mr G made a complaint, as he 
said following assurance from the staff member he spoke to, hed arranged a subsequent 
payment of £25,000 to another pension from his business account, with the intention of 
paying the business back once the first payment was returned. And this meant he now had 
£25,000 less in accessible funds.
HSBC upheld his complaint as it agreed it had provided poor service. It initially offered £100 
compensation but increased this to £200. However, it said it couldnt guarantee the money 
would be returned as this relies on S cooperating with its request. It said it did all it could to 
retrieve the money but hadnt been successful, so it didnt agree it was responsible for the 
funds not being returned.
Mr G Was unhappy with this response as he said he wouldnt have arranged a further 
£25,000 payment to be made from his business account if he had thought the payment 
wouldnt be recalled. And he was now short of the accessible funds to pay the business 
back. He therefore didnt think £200 was enough to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused. And he said there had been tax implications of the 
personal payment into his pension that he thought should be reimbursed. He brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that HSBC had done all 
it could to recall the payment and S had said it was unable to process the recall because it 
hadnt received authorisation from Mr G. So, he didnt think HSBC could have done any 
more. However, he acknowledged that HSBC had made an mistake and given wrong 
information, but thought the compensation offered was enough in the circumstances.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint, I first need to consider whether the bank in question has 
made an error. And, where I find it has, I need to decide the impact of that error in order to 
conclude what it should do to put things right. 
Here, there is no dispute that HSBC made an error. Ive listened to the call and the staff 
member Mr G spoke to in March 2021 confirmed that the money Mr G attempted to recall 
would be returned to him. And HSBC has since confirmed this isnt correct, as the recall is 
reliant on cooperation from the third party bank. So, I need to decide the impact of this error 
and what I can fairly hold HSBC responsible for. 
When looking at the impact of an error, wed usually consider the direct consequences of the 
mistake. And we take into account what would be reasonably foreseeable at the time of the 
error. Ive considered what Mr G has said about the action he took, but I dont think its 
reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for his second payment of £25,000 from the business 
account to the other pension. 
While HSBC gave Mr G a false assurance that the money would be returned for definite, it 
didnt offer advice about what action Mr G should take. Nor was it aware of Mr Gs intention 
to make a further payment from his business account. The decision to make the second 
payment was Mr Gs and I dont think HSBC could have reasonably foreseen that this is the 
action he would take. So, it wouldnt be fair to ask HSBC to cover that loss. 
Further, while Mr G has lost out on the accessible funds, the £25,000 is still held in an 
account that belongs to him. Albeit one that he cant have immediate access to. This means 
that he hasnt suffered a loss of this amount. So it wouldnt be fair to ask HSBC to reimburse 
this amount. 
I note Mr G has pointed out the tax implications of the payment from his personal account to 
his pension, that may have been avoided had the payment been returned. However, this is 
due to the original payment being authorised by Mr G from his personal account, and not 
due to HSBCs error. So, it wouldnt be fair to ask it to reimburse this loss either. 
Finally, HSBC has confirmed that the recall was unsuccessful as S said it had been unable 
to obtain authorisation for the recall from Mr G. While Mr G said S made no attempt to 
contact him about the recall and he wasnt aware this was the reason until he brought his 
complaint to this service, Im unable to say HSBC has done anything wrong by S not 
contacting Mr G. While I appreciate he had been given assurance by HSBC that the recall 
would succeed, the payment was made over a year ago. And Ive not seen evidence that Mr 
G has tried to mitigate the loss since then. 
While, I dont think HSBC are responsible for the second payment, I agree its error has 
caused Mr G some distress and inconvenience. Especially as it took a number of months for 
HSBC to provide a firm answer about the outcome of the recall and to confirm it had given 
wrong information. Its offered £200 compensation to make up for the distress caused and I 
think this is fair in the circumstances and in line with what I would have directed if it hadnt. 
So I wont tell it to pay anything more.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I find that HSBC UK Bank Plcs offer of £200 compensation is fair 
and reasonable. It should pay Mr G the £200 compensation its offered, if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman