DRN-3557369
The complaint
Mr C says Freemans Plc irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr C took out three catalogue shopping account from Freemans in April 2017, July 2017 and 
February 2018. He received a number of credit limit increases on all three accounts. When 
the accounts fell into arrears Freemans sold the debt to a third party.
Mr C complained to this service saying Freemans did not do enough to check the credit was 
affordable for him, he was already in financial difficulties.
Our investigator upheld Mr Cs complaint in part, saying Freemans should not have provided 
any of the credit increases from 1 August 2018 onwards.  He then set out what Freemans 
must do to correct its failings. 
Freemans accepted this assessment and agreed to put things right in line with the 
investigators instructions. It sent Mr C details of what this meant for him. 
Mr C accepted the assessment about which parts of the lending was irresponsible, but he 
disagreed with what Freemans must do now. He said either Freemans must buy back the 
debt from the third part and agree to an affordable repayment plan, or it must pay him the 
refund directly and he will liaise with the third party. 
Our investigator explained that Freemans had followed the settlement he had awarded and it 
was allowed to apply the refund of the interest and charges to reduce the outstanding 
balance. It had to liaise with the new owner to achieve this, but it did not have to buy back 
the debt.
Unhappy with this outcome Mr C asked for an ombudsmans review so the complaint was 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including all the 
relevant rules, regulations and industry best practice that we consider  is set out on our 
website. 
As the parties are no longer in dispute about which advances of credit were irresponsible 
and have accepted the investigators assessment that no increases should have bene 
provided after 1 August 2018 on any of the accounts I wont comment further on this.
I will focus here on what remains in dispute  the form of the redress. The investigator set 
out that (the underlining is mine for emphasis in response to Mr Cs comments): 
How to put things right
Mr C has asked Freemans to consider writing off the remaining debt. But I think that
Mr C has had the benefit of the money that he borrowed because he was buying
goods from Freemans. So I cant say this would be a fair outcome.
I think to put things right, its fair and reasonable for Freemans to refund any interest
and charges incurred by Mr C as a result of the credit unfairly granted to him.
I think reasonable and proportionate checks at each credit limit increase would have
revealed that Mr Cs lines of credit should not have been increased from 1
August 2018 onwards. Therefore, Freemans should remove any interest and charges
incurred after 1 August 2018 as a result of any increases.
That is, Freemans can only add interest accrued on the balance up to the credit limit
of £300 (account A), £500 (account B) and £300 (account C), these being the
credit limits before 1 August 2018.
Freemans should work out how much Mr C would have owed after the above
adjustments. Any repayment Mr C made since 1 August 2018 should be used
to reduce the adjusted balances.
If this clears any of the accounts, any funds remaining should be refunded to 
Mr C along with 8% simple interest* - calculated from the date of overpayment to
the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mr C no longer owes any money,
then all adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the
credit file from 1 August 2018.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains on any account, Freemans should look to
arrange an affordable payment plan with Mr C for the outstanding amount. If
the debt was sold to a third party, Freemans are to either repurchase the debt or
liaise with the current debt owner to ensure the above steps are undertaken. Once
Mr C has cleared the balance, any adverse information should be removed
from the credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Freemans to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it intends to apply 
the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
I can see Freemans wrote to Mr C on 6 May 2022 setting out the redress amount based on 
these instructions for each account, and explaining that it would be offsetting these against 
the outstanding balances, with the remainder payable to the new debt owner. 
These redress instructions are in line with our guidelines for irresponsible lending 
complaints, and I havent seen any evidence that Freemans hasnt complied with them, so I 
will not be instructing the lender to do anything differently. I would urge Mr C to contact 
Freemans to progress this settlement.
As the investigator has already said, if Mr C feels he is being treated unfairly by the new debt 
owner he should raise a complaint with them. If he is unhappy with their response he can 
bring a new complaint to this service.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Cs complaint in part. Freemans Plc must put things right as set out 
above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman