DRN-3998540
The complaint
Ms M complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) have handled her
Buildings Insurance claim.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my intended decision.
What my decision covers
My decision focusses on events following RSAs previous final response letter of August 
2021 to its final response issued in May 2022. Any reference to events or information outside 
of these dates are for the purpose of addressing this specific complaint. 
Im mindful that Ms M remains unhappy with RSA, and further issues exist. I acknowledge 
she has made submissions which includes further detail of events following RSAs final 
response in May 2022.  
I issued a provisional decision on 26 January 2023 in which I set out what we could and 
couldnt look at. Where situations keep changing, we cant keep amending and adapting our 
assessments to suit. Well do what we can to finalise matters for the parties, but we cant run 
a complaint alongside a claim and comment on every action and event that occurs.  And 
here things have been occurring and changing on a regular basis. But I cant review 
everything thats happened since the complaint came to our service and amend my findings 
to suit. So, I wont be making a finding on anything outside of the dates Ive set out above 
here.
Im sorry to hear of how stressful the escape of water, and subsequent claim, have been for 
Ms M. I understand she feels strongly about whats happened and this is reflected in the 
considerable submissions she has made in bringing her complaint and in response to my 
provisional findings. 
Whilst I dont intend to respond in similar detail, I can assure Ms M I have read all her 
correspondence and taken it into account when making my decision. 
So, if I dont mention any particular point or piece of evidence it isnt because I havent seen 
it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. 
This isnt intended to be meant as a discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the informal nature of 
our service.
My provisional decision
In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Regarding settlement
Although Ms M hasnt explicitly said she wanted a cash settlement from RSA. She has said
on several occasions, including in her submissions to our service, that she doesnt wish to
deal with RSAs contractors as she had lost faith in them. Following the events leading up to
August 2021, and her earlier experiences of dealing with RSA in the claim, with incorrect
contractors being appointed, I can understand why Ms M had concerns about using RSAs
contractors. However, Im not persuaded by what Ms M has said that RSAs contractors and
suppliers were limiting liability. And I dont think, considering the information available to me,
RSA have tried to force a cash settlement.
As Ms M didnt want to use RSAs contractors, the only other option RSA would be able to
present is a cash settlement. Ms M in entitled to use her own contractors, but in this event,
RSA is entitled settle at the rate it would cost them, as per the terms and conditions of the
policy.
RSA says it calculated the settlement it has offered Ms M at competitive market rates
opposed to their discounted supplier rates, which I think is reasonable. But there is a wide
margin between the quote provided by Ms M and RSAs settlement offer. Ms M has also
previously provided a quote from a contractor to include reinstatement work.
I understand Ms M has previously raised concerns that RSA wouldnt provide details of its
costing to her and disputes the amount is fair. Im aware RSA have already told Ms M that it
benefits from discounted rates through its suppliers and these costs are commercially
sensitive information. But for completeness, I dont think RSA have acted unreasonably by
not sharing this information.
The damage at the property
Ms M has referenced in her own submissions that in the months and years prior to the claim,
she was made aware of possible issues with the damp course prior to discovering the
escape of water.
RSAs opinion is that there are issues present at the property, not related to the escape of
water, that may cause it to become wet again.
Although it says there are no defects present with the damp course, the report provided by
Ms Ms contractor does acknowledge a historic issue with the damp courses construction
which would leave the property susceptible to damp in the area where it was subsequently
found.
Ive not seen any specific testing to the damp course that shows it has failed. But RSAs
evidence shows testing consistent with damp issues in the home, in areas located away
from the escape water.
Considering the information available to me I think it unlikely the escape of water is the sole
cause of all of the issues Ms M has identified at the property.
However, RSA have said it will repair all of the decoration related damage, including the
damage relating to damp. Which I think is reasonable.
A report from June 2022, from a contractor hired by Ms M. says drying of the property is notcomplete. RSA has said because of the issues it highlighted the property would have
become wet again. Drying would need to be completed again before any further works
progress at the property to ensure a repair is full and lasting  which RSA are responsible for
under the terms and conditions of the policy.
As the escape of water has been repaired, and if there are no issues with the damp proof
course, as Ms M and her contractors have said, then I wouldnt expect further issues to
present themselves following repairs being completed.
RSA would be responsible for putting Ms M back in the position she would have been in
before the escape of water occurred. Further damage to items in the property have been
reported, these would need to be considered by RSA as part of this claim.
RSA have also agreed to consider costs for the removal of mould and decontamination of
the property. Due to the time that has passed, I can see it isnt in dispute the property needs
further drying and I think its reasonable in the circumstances RSA meet these costs. If Ms M
chooses to use her own contractors, RSA should provide a cash settlement in line with the
terms and conditions of the policy.
Having considered everything set out above, Im not persuaded RSAs conclusions are
obviously wrong. So, Im not persuaded its reasonable for RSA to meet any further costs
Ms M has incurred from her own contractors to provide reports.
Moving the claim forward
Following the completion of drying works, the claim will move on to reinstatement works.
RSA have said it was unable to provide a full scope for works until drying is completed. Ms
M has provided a full scope from her contractor, but RSA is not satisfied the scope, or its
costs, is a reasonable reflection of the damage caused. Im also mindful the claim has
moved on since, and potential costs may have changed since the quote was provided
around October 2021.
To progress matters and reduce any future impact on Ms M, as well as avoiding further
delays to bringing this claim to a conclusion. I recommend RSA present Ms M with the
choice of three independent surveyors for her to choose from. The surveyor is then to be
appointed to attend the property and draw up a scope for reinstatement works. RSA would
then be required to base any works it carries out or potential settlement on their findings.
Ms M would then have the choice of whether to have RSA carry out the works or take a cash
settlement under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Given the longer the matter remains outstanding, further potential damage is caused to the
property, which under the terms of the policy RSA could reasonably refuse to meet should it
be prevented from accessing the property. As such, I would urge Ms M to cooperate with
RSA on the choice and appointment of a surveyor so that this matter can be concluded 
without delay. A representative from RSA as well as Ms M should attend the meeting with
the surveyor so that all parties are aware of what has happened and have a reasonable
opportunity to provide input at that meeting.
Delays
RSA acknowledged there have been avoidable delays in parts of its handling of the claim.
From reviewing everything available to me I can see there have been times it could have
acted more promptly. In particular, in publishing and providing reports from its contractors.I can see Ms M had reported issues with access to water in the property around August and
September 2021, which I think should have reasonably prompted RSA to explore if
Alternative Accommodation was necessary earlier than it did. But I cant see a discussion
about Alternative Accommodation with Ms M took place until around October 2021.
However, its not unusual for claims of this nature to take some time to be resolved, so I
wont be holding RSA responsible for delays I believe were reasonably unavoidable.
One of the key contributors to prolonging the claim, in summary, has been an ongoing
dispute regarding the scope of work required for the initial stripping and drying stage of the
claim  and the associated costings.
Following an initial visit from one of RSAs contractor, Ms M said she wanted a second
opinion from her own contractor regarding the work required at the property. She wanted to
use her contractor as she felt they were more thorough. RSA informed her settlement would
only be under the terms and conditions of the policy. RSA then offered a second contractor
to report on work. I can see RSA and Ms M were unable to agree on certain parts of the
suggested work, for example the issue of Kitchen Cupboards. RSA told Ms M things such as
this could be considered on individual merit basis. It also told Ms M unforeseeable damage
could occur, or be discovered, during strip outs. So, it would look to provide a scope after
this had occurred.
I understand Ms M would have been seeking assurances, and to make sure things were
accurately reflected in the settlement of her claim, but I think RSA was also seeking to
ensure it provided an accurate settlement. I dont think it was unreasonable doing this and its
common during claims of this nature. And from reviewing everything available I do think
RSA tried to progress matters.
Further concerns were raised regarding mould at the property, and RSA agreed to send
someone to inspect it, which is something Ms M wanted. Ive said above I feel RSA took
longer than reasonable to publish its report, and to discuss it with Ms M, so I do think this
was an avoidable delay.
Compensation
I can see this has been an unsettling and stressful experience for Ms M. Ive considered the
detail she has provided about the impact it has had on her health both emotionally and
physically, very carefully. And for this she has my natural sympathy.
In the circumstances. I think its reasonable RSA pay Ms M £350 compensation, as this fairly
reflects the distress and inconvenience she has been caused.
Role of RSAs contractors and their qualifications
Ms M has raised concerns regarding the contractors used by RSA. She said contractors
were not qualified to carry out investigations it did and was not authorised to do so at her
property.
RSA is entitled to rely on the opinion of experts, and Ive not seen anything that persuades
me they were not suitably qualified. The contractor was attending the property on direction
from RSA, and was there under RSAs supervision primarily for the purpose its company
specialises in.
Therefore, I dont think RSA has acted unreasonably here. While I appreciate Ms M is upset
at the action taken here and RSAs comments, I dont intend to award further compensation
for this point.Putting things right
To put things right, I intend to direct Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Complete stripping and drying works at the property. This work should also consider
further damaged items in the property from the water damage.
Alternatively, if Ms M doesnt want to use RSAs contractors for stripping and drying 
works. RSA can provide Ms M with a cash settlement in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Consider costs for mould removal at the property under the terms and conditions of 
the policy.
When the above is complete, and reinstatement works are considered, RSA should 
present Ms M with the choice of three independent surveyors to attend the property 
to draw up an updated scope of works for claim related damage.
RSA should then base any settlement upon this. Ms M will then need to choose 
whether RSA carryout the repairs or she takes a cash settlement at the rate the 
works would have cost RSA.
Pay Ms M £450 compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA provided further comment in response to my provisional findings. It reiterated many of 
its previous comments to our service. It highlighted: 
It had offered Ms M a potential settlement based on industry recognised rates, and 
not at what its contractors would cost.
It has previously engaged a qualified surveyor, restorations company and a 
restorations consultant.
It says it recommends an overall cash settlement which would allow Ms M to select 
her own contractors.
Ms M responded in considerable detail which I wont repeat here and provided numerous 
documents to support her position. In her submissions Ms M made it clear she did not agree 
with my provisional findings, she reiterated the history of the claim, and what happened, 
providing her thoughts on each situation. She also provided her commentary to each of the 
points I made in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm here that I have reconsidered all of the information available to me and the 
responses each party has made to my provisional decision. I have taken this all into account 
when considering my decision, however I will only reference the points I believe are 
necessary to explain my decision. 
Having done so, Ive not read anything which has led me to change the outcome I reached in 
my provisional findings or my overall reasoning. 
Ill remind both parties Im considering dates I set out above. I may reference matters that fall 
outside of this in the context of providing my answer  but it is for that purpose only.Regarding settlement
I acknowledge Ms M lost faith with RSA and its contractors early on in the claim and I 
acknowledge Ms M expressed a preference to use her own contractors. But as I set out in 
my provisional findings, I dont think RSA have tried to force a cash settlement or has it 
acted in a way which would imply such action was the only option. I am also not persuaded 
that RSA should provide a settlement at the specific rate a contractor Ms M engaged quoted.
Given there is a dispute as to the work needed to rectify the damage, and this service is not 
an expert on these matters. It is my decision the most sensible way to resolve this for an up-
to-date scope of works to be detailed by an independent surveyor. 
This will provide an impartial opinion on all work required to be rectified at the property. 
Ms M can then decide whether she would wish to utilise RSAs contractors or whether she 
would like to accept a cash settlement.
I note RSAs comments they would recommend a cash settlement.  I would remind them 
here Ms M is still within her rights to utilise RSAs contractors to complete the works. 
Although it hasnt said it is doing so, and its purpose is perhaps in trying to resolve matters, I 
will remind it if it chooses to proceed to a cash settlement and does not offer use of its 
contractors, a settlement must then be provided at the cost to Ms M on production of suitable 
proof. So, while its said it calculated an offer at BCIS rates, it would need to consider the 
real cost to Ms M.  
I wish it to be noted to both parties the above paragraph isnt intended to be a finding, but 
merely to comment on considerations to be made after my directions in this decision are 
carried out.
I understand Ms M is particularly unhappy about matters regarding the damp proof course 
(DPC) and RSAs assertion some of the damage may be due to damp, not the escape of 
water. But this isnt a matter for me to consider in detail here. Ultimately RSA have agreed to 
correct any damage including anything it believes is indicative of being related to damp. This 
is not unreasonable. Ultimately, if Mrs M is correct then no further damage should appear in 
the future. However, if the damage does reappear then it will need to be to put to RSA and 
RSA will then be entitled to investigate the cause, as it would do normally and consider 
further what/if any further work is required to put things right according to the terms of the 
policy. 
Im not making a finding on whether there is a DPC, or whether it is defective. And I do not 
intend to comment further on whether there is or isnt a DPC, or a failure here. My decision is 
that the actions RSA has proposed to repair the outstanding damage is reasonable. 
I fully acknowledge Ms Ms comments about the impact everything has had on her. But 
having reconsidered all information in full, I remain persuaded the compensation set out in 
my provisional findings is appropriate and in the range of what I believe is fair in the 
circumstances.  
Ms M has said drying works have since been carried out. RSA will need to be satisfied of 
this, and I can see Ms M has said RSA can come and inspect the drying works. Alternatively, 
this can be confirmed by the independent surveyor. Following this, the claim will move on to 
reinstatement works or settlement.
RSA have said it was unable to provide a full scope for works until drying is completed. As Ive set out in my provisional findings, RSA should present Ms M with the choice of three 
independent surveyors for her to choose from.  Ms M said that she would prefer the surveyor 
to be a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. I will not make a direction in 
this regard but would recommend RSA take this into consideration when identifying suitable 
firms/individuals. 
The surveyor is then to be appointed to attend the property and draw up a scope for 
reinstatement works. RSA would then be required to base any works it carries out or a 
potential settlement on their findings. A representative from RSA as well as Ms M should 
attend the meeting with the surveyor so that all parties are aware of what has happened and 
have a reasonable opportunity to provide input at that meeting.
Ms M would then have the choice of whether to have RSA carry out the works or take a cash
settlement under the terms and conditions of the policy.
I will remind both parties here it is for RSA to discharge its liability under the policy in a timely 
manner. And that the policy does contain a term which allows it to provide a cash settlement 
rather than offering to conduct repairs. RSA is aware of this services approach that any 
such settlement should be at the rates a customer would reasonably be expected to pay.
As such, I would urge both parties to work together to ensure quick appointment of an 
independent surveyor so this matter can be concluded without delay. Should matters not 
progress within a reasonable amount of time then it would be open for RSA to consider 
making a cash settlement to discharge its liability as far as practicably possible.  
Should Ms M be unhappy with any further action or decision RSA may make in this respect 
she would be entitled to raise a further complaint.
So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, and those above, I uphold this 
complaint. 
Given matters have moved on in the intervening period, while my directions have changed 
slightly, they only do so to reflect the work undertaken, my consideration of RSAs liability 
has not changed. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I direct Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to:
Confirm the property is dry and/or undertake any works to ensure that it is so. This 
should also consider further damaged items in the property from the water damage.
If RSA is satisfied the contractor Ms M engaged to complete drying works did so 
adequately, it should provide Ms M with a cash settlement in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. If further works are required to fully dry the property it should 
discuss with Ms M whether its contractors complete this or a cash settlement is 
provided for Ms M to have the additional works undertaken.
Consider costs for mould removal at the property under the terms and conditions of 
the policy. 
When the above is complete, and reinstatement works are considered, RSA should 
present Ms M with the choice of three independent surveyors to attend the property 
to draw up an updated scope of works for claim related damage.RSA should then base any settlement upon this scope. Ms M will then need to decide 
whether she wants RSA to carry out repairs or if she would prefer to take a cash 
settlement at the rate the works would have cost RSA.
If RSA for whatever reason does not offer the option of repairs, it should provide 
Ms M with a cash settlement at the rate she would reasonably have to pay to have 
the works completed.
Pay Ms M £450 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ms complaint.
To put things right, I direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to do as Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman