DRN-2588273
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Hastings Insurance Services Limiteds handling of a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Cs car was damaged while parked and unattended. He contacted Hastings. Hastings 
referred him to a claims management company (CMC) to handle the majority of the claim. 
Mr C complained about a number of aspects of Hastings service. Hastings accepted that it 
hadn't done everything well. It offered Mr C £200 compensation as a goodwill gesture. 
Mr C brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She thought 
Hastings had done enough to put things right. After the first investigator left this service, a 
second investigator looked at Mr Cs concerns. He explained the role of the CMC and why 
Hastings wasn't responsible for the CMCs actions.
Mr C remained unhappy so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Cs made a number of specific points. But in this decision I 
don't intend to comment on each and every point raised. Instead will focus on what I see as 
being the remaining outstanding issues following our investigators assessments of the 
complaint.
The involvement of the CMC
Mr C wasn't happy with certain aspects of the CMCs handling of the claim. He's said that as 
Hastings sub contracts claims handling to the CMC then it should remain responsible for 
the CMCs actions. But thats not right.
It might help if I explain that where a policyholders cars been involved in a non-fault 
accident, rather than claiming through their own policy the policyholder may be offered the 
services of a CMC. There are a number of advantages to a CMC handling a claim. Those 
include that the CMC claims directly from the other drivers insurer, so no excess is payable 
when settling the claim. Also CMCs will usually offer to provide hire cars similar to the 
consumers own car, rather than the small (group A) hatchback type courtesy car that Mr Cs 
policy entitles him to if he claimed through his policy. 
But CMCs are independent from brokers and insurers, they are entirely separate 
businesses. So when the CMC began handling Mr Cs claim, it wasn't doing so under the 
terms of his own insurance policy and the CMC wasnt acting as an agent for the insurer. 
Instead Mr C would have signed an agreement with the CMC that allows it to seek to recover 
its claims costs from the other drivers insurers when the claim is settled. And the agreement 
Mr C would have signed is between himself and the CMC. So, as Mr C wasn't claiming 
under the terms of his own policy, its not the case that Hastings was sub-contracting claims 
handling to the CMC. So Hastings isn't in any way responsible for any delays or other 
concerns Mr C might have about the CMCs handling of the claim.
That said I can see Hastings acknowledged that it didn't properly explain the role of the CMC 
or Mr Cs options when it referred him to it. And its offered Mr C £200 for the impact of those 
errors. I think thats a reasonable response in the circumstances. 
Data handling
A member of Hastings staff rang Mr C, and after confirming Mr Cs details, began telling 
Mr C why the CMC couldn't deal with his claim. Mr C very quickly identified that the 
circumstances Hastings mentioned didn't refer to him. Hastings apologised and ended the 
call. The entire call was less than two minutes long and no sensitive details were shared.
Hastings acknowledged its mistake in its complaints response. It said it had raised the 
matter with its data protection team. And I think that was the right thing to do. Mr Cs said 
that Hastings should be punished for its error. But were not the industry regulator, so it's 
not our role to fine or punish businesses. Similarly, it's not our role to decide whether theres 
been any breach of data protection rules. That would be a matter for the Information 
Commissioners Office. And I note that Hastings considered the impact of its mistake when 
offering a goodwill gesture. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Compensation 
Mr C doesn't think Hastings offer of £200 compensation as a goodwill gesture goes far 
enough. But I think it's reasonable in the circumstances. Hastings has accepted that it didn't 
get everything right. And, as I've said above, it isn't responsible for any concerns Mr C might 
have about the CMCs claims handling. So, while it's clear that Hastings service could have 
been better, I think the compensation it offered is reasonable in the circumstances, as it's in 
line with awards we make in cases of similar seriousness. It follows that Im not going to 
instruct it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman