DRN-1785730
 
Complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained to us that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), then trading as 
Cheltenham & Gloucester, mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy in January 1994.
They say the MPPI was added to their mortgage without their agreement. They also say they 
didnt need the policy. 
Background
Mr and Mrs R bought the policy when they were taking out a mortgage. They bought a joint 
policy that provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Because Mr and Mrs R disagree, their 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Because it was so long ago, Lloyds doesnt have all the paperwork from when Mr and Mrs R 
bought the MPPI. But Lloyds has told us that it made a recommendation to Mr and Mrs R 
about taking out the cover. So Lloyds needed to make sure that the policy was suitable for 
their situation and that the information it gave them about the cover was clear and not 
misleading.
As I said, we dont have the actual paperwork for the sale of the MPPI. So Ive looked at the 
limited paperwork that is available.  Ive seen that when Mr and Mrs R first enquired about 
taking out a mortgage, they went to a meeting when their finances were assessed by way of 
a loan assessment form being completed. Ive seen that at this point they hadnt shown any 
interest in taking out PPI, although they did express interest in taking out building insurance.  
Ive also noticed that Mr and Mrs R asked not to have to attend any further interviews as part 
of the application process because of the distance they had to travel. 
Mr and Mrs R say they werent told about MPPI being added to their mortgage. But given 
that the sale paperwork is incomplete  I dont have a copy of the mortgage application form, 
for example - Ive got very little to go on if Im to make a finding that the MPPI was mis-sold. 
To do so, Id have to have seen enough to make me think something went wrong with the 
sale or know about a particular issue that could have affected the sale. I dont feel able to 
say that either of those two scenarios is the case here.From what I know about this type of sale, when completing their mortgage application form, 
its likely that Mr and Mrs R would have needed to make a decision about whether or not to 
take MPPI, most likely by ticking a box. Having done so, they would go on to make choices 
about the level of coverage they each wanted to have and answer questions about their 
employment and health situation. It would have been open to them to show they didnt want 
the cover  most likely by ticking a different box. And if the form was completed for them, 
they would still have had the opportunity to check the form before signing it .
This all makes me think that Mr and Mrs R ought to have known they had a choice about 
buying the policy to cover their extra borrowing and chose to do so. And Ive taken into 
account the possibility that Lloyds would have sent them the mortgage application and 
related paperwork to complete in their own time. 
Ive next looked to see if Mr and Mrs R may have been disadvantaged by the conditions or 
limitations of the policy. From what Ive seen both Mr and Mrs R were eligible for the cover 
and neither of them were affected by any of the main policy exclusions. If theyd needed to 
make a claim, the policy would help to cover their mortgage payments for up to 12 months. 
Mr and Mrs R were both entitled to good benefits from their employers, being 6 months at 
full pay followed by 6 months at half pay. They also told us about some savings they had 
from the sale of their previous property. 
The policy would have paid out alongside the employer benefits Mr and Mrs R have told us 
about. And the policy would have paid out if one or both of them were to lose their job. Ive 
also kept in mind that it would have paid out alongside any other resources they had access 
to, such as their savings. So I think they both had had a use for it and that it was suitable for 
their situation. 
The policy cost when the mortgage began was around £39 per month and would cover 
Mr and Mrs Rs monthly mortgage payments. I cant be sure that Mr and Mrs R knew about 
the cost of the policy when they bought it or that they read the policy documentation that 
would have been sent to them after the lending was finalised and the policy started. But the 
monthly cost of the MPPI would have been set out on the mortgage offer  and again, 
unfortunately we dont have a copy.
I can see its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy was 
sold. But, having looked at the sale carefully, I think Mr and Mrs R would still have decided to 
buy the policy if theyd been better advised and informed.
Mr and Mrs R recently sent us a copy mortgage statement. I see this includes property 
insurance which I take to be buildings insurance. However, in my experience PPI premiums 
for policies sold by Lloyds was often taken by way of a separate payment through a bank 
account. So I hope this helps to clarify the position. 
I realise that this is not the outcome that Mr and Mrs R have been hoping for and I am sorry 
to have to disappoint them on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July2020.Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman