DRN-3699255
The complaint
Mr G complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) decision to void 
his home contents insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G contacted AA to make a claim following a theft at his home. Mr G says AA cancelled 
his policy after he told them a family friend had been living at his property. Mr G says AA 
claimed his family friend was a lodger, but Mr G disputed this and said there was no contract 
in place and his family friend was a guest but had made a small contribution to bills. Mr G 
says he accepts his family friends possessions may be excluded by the policy, but he felt 
cancelling his policy was unfair. 
Mr G complained to AA and they responded and explained the policy was voided due to 
non-disclosure of the lodger staying at the property. AA said, as a paying guest, the family 
friend would be considered a lodger. AA explained their underwriting criteria specifically 
excludes the inclusion of a lodger so, had this been declared, they wouldnt have provided 
cover. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G. He thought AA hadnt acted unfairly in 
cancelling the policy. Mr G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr G will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Gs contents insurance policy which sets out the terms and 
conditions. Under a section headed Notifying changes it says, The policyholder must 
contact us as soon as possible about any change to the information contained in the 
Statement of Insurance which may affect this insurance, this includes any changes 
concerning the policyholder, their spouse/partner, relatives and domestic employees, 
normally living at your home. It goes further to say a policyholder must notify AA within 
seven days if, you let out your home to tenants or share with lodgers. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
AA thinks Mr G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when, at 
renewal of the policy, he didnt disclose that he had a lodger living at his property. AA say 
this doesnt meet their acceptability criteria so they had to void the policy. AA say the 
renewal information gave Mr G the opportunity to check the information about who was living 
at the property was correct. And, had they known there was a lodger living at the address, 
they wouldnt have offered him a policy. 
  
The theft at Mr Gs property occurred within the cover year running from January 2021 to 
January 2022. The first point Ive considered is whether Mr G took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation. Ive looked at the renewal information sent to Mr G and the 
Statement of Insurance shows Mr G has answered Yes when asked Is your home 
occupied solely by you, your spouse/partner/joint owner and members of your family? AA 
say had Mr G answered this question No at renewal  as they believe he shouldve done  
then they wouldnt have provided cover. 
So, Ive looked at Mr Gs circumstances to see whether he could reasonably have been 
expected to answer the question in the way AA have described. Theres no dispute here 
that, at the time of renewal, the family friend was living at the property. I can see Mr G, when 
disputing their decision, explained to AA that the family friend joined the household in 
November 2020. Mr G says the family friend cant be considered a lodger as there was no 
contract in place and the family friend gave him some money to assist with bills  as his own 
children have done. While I acknowledge the differing opinions between Mr G and AA about 
whether the family friend should be considered a lodger, I think the question was clear in that 
it asked whether the property is occupied by Mr G and his family. AAs notes show that, 
when Mr G called them to notify them of the theft, he said his children and a family friend 
reside at the property  the family friend has been resident for the last 6 months I 
believe therefore this question was more a matter of fact. So, even though Mr G and AA 
have opposing views on whether the family friend can be considered a lodger, I think theres 
no doubt they were living at the property at the time of renewal. And, I think AAs suggestion 
for how Mr G shouldve answered this question is reasonable. So, given that I believe the 
question was clear and specific, I dont think Mr G took reasonable care when answering it. 
Theres been a misrepresentation here but an insurer will only be entitled to take action if its 
a qualifying misrepresentation in accordance with CIDRA. So, Ive now considered whether 
the information provided by Mr G amounts to a qualifying misrepresentation. 
The next point Ive looked at is whether the misrepresentation actually made a difference to 
AA. In other words, if the information AA received had been accurate, would they have 
offered the insurance policy at all or only on different terms - including whether they wouldve 
charged more. 
AA say the family friend being an occupant at the property is an unacceptable risk based on 
their underwriting criteria. And, had this been disclosed by Mr G when renewing the policy, 
they wouldnt have offered cover. AA have provided our service with their underwriting 
criteria and, having reviewed this, I think they wouldnt have provided cover had Mr G 
disclosed that a family friend was staying at the property. I say this because the 
circumstances of Mr Gs case, when compared against the underwriting criteria, show that 
cover wouldve been declined. I understand Mr G will want to know more detail around the 
underwriting criteria but this information is commercially sensitive so I cant refer to specific 
parts of the underwriting criteria. So, taking this information into account, I think Mr G has made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. I can see AA believe the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and 
Im minded to agree. AA have also provided evidence which shows they wouldnt have 
offered a policy. So, I dont think they have acted unreasonably in voiding Mr Gs policy from 
the renewal date. And, given thats the case, CIDRA allows AA to refuse any claim and 
return any premiums paid. And, I understand AA have refunded the premium for the 2021-
2022 cover term and a part refund for the previous year.  
I understand Mr G questions how a family friend staying at his property could be considered 
material information that would impact the underwriting of this risk. Insurers generally adopt 
their own approach to assessing risk and while some might offer cover based on specific 
factors, others might not. An insurer will decide what factors to take into account and how 
much weight to put on each of them. Some may use only a few factors, others many more. 
We dont have the power to direct a business on what risk factors they should take into 
account. And, while I acknowledge consumers might sometimes have their own view on 
what should constitute risk, the ultimate decision on what risks are acceptable rests with the 
insurer. 
I note Mr G says AAs policy documentation refers to non-family members and so it wouldnt 
be obvious to a consumer that a family friend moving into an insured property would require 
notification during the term of the policy. Mr G also says it wouldnt be foreseeable to a 
consumer that these circumstances would cause an insurer to cancel a policy. I 
acknowledge Mr Gs points but I think the terms and conditions do make it clear that its a 
policyholders responsibility to inform AA if they change the occupancy of their home or let 
out their home to tenants or share with lodgers. As well as the original information given by 
Mr G when first notifying AA about the claim, I can see AA have a further call with Mr G 
where they ask questions to understand the nature of the family friends occupancy. Mr G 
explains the family friend contributes towards her stay and paid a lump sum several months 
before. Taking this all into account, together with what Mr G says about how long the family 
friend had been staying at his property, I dont think it was unreasonable for AA to consider 
the family friend as a lodger. And, that being the case, there was a requirement for Mr G to 
notify AA about this. 
I can see Mr G raises queries about the decision taken by AA in relation to the 2020-2021 
cover term as the change in circumstances occurred during that period. Given what Ive said 
above, I dont think it was unreasonable for AA to decide they wont provide cover from 
November 2020. Theres some contradictory information around whether AA have voided 
the policy from this point or cancelled it, until the end of that cover term. An insurer doesnt 
have to avoid the policy though. As long as theres been no claim, the insurer can choose to 
cancel the policy rather than avoid it from the point of the misrepresentation. This is because 
where theres been no claim CIDRA sets out clearly that the remedies available to the 
insurer dont affect the insurers contractual rights to cancel the policy. If AA has chosen to 
cancel the policy rather than avoid it  then its making a decision that the policy was live and 
active up to the point it cancelled. 
I understand Mr G will be disappointed, and I acknowledge his reasons for why he believes 
AA have acted unfairly in voiding his policy. I wish to reassure Mr G Ive read and considered 
everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference 
it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman