DRN-3821449
The complaint
Ms W is complaining that American Express Services Europe Limited (AMEX) hasnt 
refunded an amount she paid on her credit card for some flights.
What happened
In December 2021 Ms W bought flights with a third-party airline  who I shall refer to as V  
for her and her family. However, shortly after booking the flights she learned that, owing to 
restrictions arising from Covid-19 at the destination country, her children would be unable to 
travel. So she cancelled the flights. V provided a credit voucher for the amount she paid. 
Ms W was unhappy with this as she said she bought a flexible ticket so she expected to 
receive a cash refund. She was unhappy with Vs response, so, in January 2022, she raised 
a dispute with AMEX. 
AMEX considered Ms Ws claim under its chargeback scheme rules, but ultimately didnt 
refund the money. Ms W was unhappy with AMEXs handling of the claim for the following 
reasons:
She says she had to ask it numerous times to raise the dispute before it would do so.
It said it provided a temporary credit, but it didnt do so.
It didnt reopen the claim after she provided the information it required her to provide.
AMEX didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint as it was satisfied it had handled the chargeback 
claim fairly. Ms W remained unhappy, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. Ms W didnt agree with the investigators 
opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Ms W is complaining about the way AMEX handled a dispute over a payment she made to V 
for some flights. Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit 
card, the card provider can consider the dispute under two guises  chargeback and 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). In this case, AMEX only 
considered the claim under chargeback. However, I would expect the card provider to 
consider both avenues. So Ive also thought about whether Ms W has lost out because 
AMEX didnt consider whether Ms W had any rights under Section 75.
Chargeback
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant. However, AMEX is also entitled to consider the prospects of 
raising a chargeback before doing so.
Ms W says AMEX didnt give her a temporary refund when it said it would, but I dont agree. 
AMEX has explained its process in this respect and its shown that, rather than physically 
refund the money onto the car, it ringfenced the transaction and suspended the requirement 
to repay it. Ultimately, Im satisfied AMEX raised the chargeback but it didnt uphold it.
I note Ms W also doesnt agree with the outcome and shes highlighted that she provided 
AMEX with further information on 20 January 2022, but she doesnt think it reconsidered the 
claim after that. However, I can see that AMEX did consider it, but it wasnt enough for it to 
change its mind.
I acknowledge Ms W feels this was unfair, but I dont think AMEXs decision was 
unreasonable in this regard. The grounds for raising a chargeback are strict under the card 
scheme rules  in this case AMEXs rules. One of the grounds for chargeback is where a 
credit (refund) isnt provided. Ms W believes V should have refunded the cost of the flights. 
But Vs terms of carriage clearly sets out that it will provide a credit voucher where the 
consumer cancels the contract. So, while I understand the reasons why Ms W cancelled the 
booking, V wasnt required to give her a cash refund. So I cant say AMEX was unfair in not 
pursuing the chargeback as it was fair for it to conclude that, given V had issued a voucher 
in line with the terms of the contract, the chargeback claim would be likely to fail. Ultimately 
Im satisfied it handled the chargeback claim fairly.
Section 75
As I said above, Id generally expect a credit card provider to consider a dispute under both 
chargeback and Section 75. However, AMEX didnt consider Section 75 in this case. So Ive 
thought about whether Ms W has lost out because of this.
Ms W paid for the flights on her AMEX credit card. Section 75 sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, AMEX is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Essentially for me to uphold this aspect of the complaint, I think Ms W needs to show that V 
breached the terms of the contract in not providing her with a refund when she cancelled the 
booking, or that V told her before she bought the flights that it would refund the cost of the 
tickets if she cancelled the flights.
While I appreciate Ms W was unable to fly because of the travel restrictions owing to Covid-
19 which prevented her children from being able to travel. But V did provide the flight and it 
wasnt responsible for the reason Ms W couldnt fly. The terms of the contract were clear 
that, where Ms W needed to cancel the flight, V would provide a travel voucher. So, in giving 
Ms W a voucher, V fulfilled the terms of the contract. And it follows that I cant say V 
breached the terms of the contract in not providing a cash refund.
Ms W has said that Vs website sets out that certain events may give rise to a full refund. 
However, she says they dont mention events that are beyond the control of the passenger 
or V such as the change in government policy or entry requirements. But, as I said, the 
contract doesnt say Ms W was entitled to a cash refund  only a voucher. So, in providing 
Ms W with a voucher, it fulfilled its responsibility under the contract. And it follows, therefore, that I cant say V breached the terms of the contract in not giving Ms W a refund.
Ive also thought about whether Ms W has given us enough to show that V misrepresented 
the contract. Ms W says V told her it was a flexible booking and that the bookings were 
cancellable. But I havent seen anything to show this was incorrect. Ultimately Ms W was 
able to cancel the booking, but I havent seen anything to show that V told her shed get a 
cash refund if she did cancel. And in fact, from what I can see, the website does explain 
shed get a voucher. I recognise that she may have thought or assumed that shed get a 
refund, but the terms of the contract were clear and Ms W hasnt given us anything to show 
that V set out shed receive a cash refund if she needed to cancel the booking.
So, taking all this into consideration, I dont think AMEX would have refunded the amount 
Ms W paid had it considered the claim under Section 75 as it should have done.
I appreciate why Ms W was reluctant to receive a voucher, but for all the reasons Ive set 
out, I cant say AMEX acted unreasonably in not refunding the amount she paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman