DRN-2782802
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Guaranteed Asset Protection insurance (GAP) wasnt set up when she 
acquired a car with finance from Pendragon Finance and insurance Services Limited.   
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs K was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
Pendragon. At the point of supply, Mrs K asked for GAP insurance. The salesman said there 
were some issues with taking payment but told Mrs K not to worry and that the insurance 
would be set up.
Mrs K received an email from the insurer with a privacy notice but nom policy. She tried to 
contact the salesman several times but received no response. Eventually the dealership told 
Mrs K that the salesman no longer worked there. Another salesman said he would follow up 
the insurance. He later advised Mrs K that the time period for backdating a GAP policy had 
expired and the application had been declined. 
In September 2020 the car was in an accident and was written off. Mrs K complained to 
Pendragon. She wants it to cover the shortfall under the agreement because the GA 
insurance was never set up.
In response, Pendragon said the documentation for the purchase showed that the GAP 
insurance had been declined. It said it wasnt possible to set up and backdate a policy now 
because the car had been in an accident.
Mrs K wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think Mrs K had received the level of service 
she expected ad said that although he didnt think it was fair to ask Pendragon to cover the 
shortfall, it should make a payment of £100 to recognise the poor service.
Mrs K didnt agree. She didnt think £100 was enough to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience shed suffered and said shed had to chase the dealership for months and 
months. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all of the emails which Mrs K sent to the dealership and I can see that she 
queried the email shed received from the GAP insurer because it only had a privacy notice 
attached but no policy of insurance. Mrs K has said that she contacted the dealership 
several times to try and speak to the salesperson. Ive no reason to doubt what she says. 
When Mrs K finally managed to get a response from the dealership, it was too late to 
backdate the policy because more than 60 days had passed. In fact, Mrs K had been trying 
to contact the dealership for around 6 months before she got a response.
The final response from Pendragon doesnt address the failure by the dealership to 
response to Mrs Ks attempts to make contact. I understand why Mrs K is so frustrated about 
this, because if her emails had been responded to promptly, she may have been able to 
arrange the policy within the relevant timescale. I cant say for certain, however, whether the 
policy would have been issued.
I can see that theres a discrepancy in the paperwork, which suggests that Mrs K declined 
GAP insurance at the point of supply. I wasnt present during the discussions with the 
dealership so I cant be certain of what was agreed. But on balance, I think its more likely 
than not that Mrs K wanted the insurance. I dont think she would have chased the 
dealership after the point of supply otherwise.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the level of service provided to Mrs K was poor. Im of the 
view that Mrs K asked for GAP insurance but that due to errors by the salesman it wasnt set 
up. It took the business several months to response to Mrs K when she chased them up 
about the insurance. 
Putting things right
Its clear that Mrs K has had to spend a lot of time trying to contact the business to chase up 
the insurance. Its unfortunate that the car has been in an accident, but I cant hold 
Pendragon responsible for that, and I dont think it would be fair to ask it to cover the 
shortfall. However, I do think its fair to ask Pendragon to pay compensation for the poor 
service which Mrs K received. 
I appreciate that Mrs K wasnt happy with the level of compensation recommended by the 
investigator. However, I think the sum of £100 is fair and reasonable.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Pendragon Finance and Insurance Services 
Limited must pay compensation of £100 to Mrs K.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman