DRN-3306884
The complaint
Mr S complains that his credit limit was reduced by Sainsburys Bank Plc without sufficient
notice and that they didnt allow him to reverse his decision to close his account.
What happened
Mr Ss credit limit on his Sainsburys credit card was £4,800. After he made a payment to his
account for £2,500, Sainsburys sent him a text message shortly thereafter, informing him
that his credit limit had been reduced to £2,800, effective immediately.
Mr S contacted Sainsburys, but he said nobody could explain to him why his credit limit had
been reduced. As Mr S said he was angry about the situation, he asked the call handler to
close his account. He said the call handler agreed to do this and explained the
consequences of doing so, such as not being able to view his account online and his card
would become inactive.
But Mr S said he hadnt been told that the decision was irreversible and he wouldnt be able
to apply again for another Sainsburys credit card for 90 days after paying off his outstanding
balance. Mr S said that had he been told this, then he wouldnt have been so hasty to close
his account. Mr S said that the decision to lower his credit limit may affect him getting a
mortgage as it would appear that he is utilising more of his credit limit than if his credit limit
was left at £4,800. He also said this could affect his credit score. Mr S had rung Sainsburys
back on the same day he closed his account to reactivate it, but he was told this would not
be possible.
Mr S complained to Sainsburys. He wanted them to acknowledge that they broke their terms
and conditions as well as his credit agreement for not consulting him about the credit limit
reduction or communicating effectively with him about it. Mr S also wanted them to reverse
the decision to close his account and for them to pay him compensation.
Sainsburys upheld part of his complaint. They said that they had made a business decision
to lower Mr Ss credit limit from £4,800 to £2,800 and they sent him a text on the same day
this took place. But although Mr S had asked for his account to be closed, when he rung
back to reactivate his account later that day, he was told incorrect information about being
able to do so. Sainsburys said that due to the time which had now elapsed they are unable
to reopen his account. Sainsburys credited £50 to his account to reflect the poor customer
service they gave him.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He said section 16.3 of the general terms and
conditions stated that any changes made would be done so with at least 7 calendar days
notice, however if any change was to his disadvantage, they would give him 30 days
calendar notice. So he believes that Sainsburys broke their terms and conditions here as the
change they made was to his disadvantage.
Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. He said that Sainsburys had issued Mr S a
variation of terms in March 2018, which stated that Sainsburys no longer have to give notice
for decreasing a credit limit and they can do so with immediate effect. Therefore, from March
2018, the variation of terms is the terms and conditions which become applicable.
Our investigator said that while Mr S was given wrong information about being able to
reactivate the closed account, there was no significant impact  as his credit limit had been
reduced, therefore, he had no available funds to use. So the £50 compensation was fair.
Mr S asked an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In
summary he said the terms and conditions which Sainsburys displayed on their website in
2020 would supersede the notice of variation sent to him in March 2018. He said that the
information Sainsburys has shared with credit reference agencies was not fair, due to their
shortfalls in service and their conduct.
Mr S also said that if a complaint had been raised due to a dispute over the account then no
further arrears should be reported until the complaint had been resolved. Mr S said that a
complaint should only be considered resolved when a company can demonstrate that the
complaint has been investigated and steps are taken to confirm the changes were valid. But
because Sainsburys closed down his complaint without an investigation or consulting him,
then they didnt follow this. He also said his interest payments should be returned and his
issues with his credit file should be addressed.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has made a number of points to both Sainsburys and this service and Ive considered
and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said about how Sainsburys have handled his complaint.
But, our service can only look at complaints about regulated financial activities and complaint
handling isnt one of the regulated activities, so Im unable to address Mr Ss concerns
relating to this here.
Mr S said that Sainsburys website shows their credit card agreement states "We will only
decrease your credit limit or cash limit if we have a good reason to, and the amount of notice
we give you will depend on the reason for the decrease. If the reason for the decrease of
your credit limit or cash limit is that our assessment of the risk of lending to customers
generally has changed, we will give you 7 days' notice. If we decrease your credit limit or
cash limit for any other good reason, for example, there is a change in your circumstances or
a change in our assessment of the risks of lending to you, we may only give you one day's
notice".
Mr S believes that as this was showing on their website in 2020 then this should supersede
any notice of variation that they sent him in March 2018. As I could not find a credit card
agreement on Sainsburys website, I asked Mr S if he had a copy of this, or if he could send
me a link to show me this information. As Mr S did not reply to my request, unfortunately Im
unable to rely on this here.
So I asked Sainsburys if they could send me any subsequent changes to their credit card
agreement since his notice of variation was issued. The subsequent credit card agreement
states If we lower your credit limit for any other valid reason, for example, there is a change
in your circumstances or a change in our assessment of the risks of lending to you, we have
the right not to tell you in advance of lowering your limit.This is in line with the notice of variation which Sainsburys sent Mr S in March 2018. This
document informed Mr S that we may not always give you notice before we reduce your
credit limit. So Im satisfied that Sainsburys were clear of the changes they were making
about notifying customers when they were going to reduce a credit limit from giving at least
one day notice to no notice.
So I cant agree with Mr S that Sainsburys have broken their terms and conditions/credit
agreement here. Although Mr S wanted Sainsburys to consult with him about the changes,
to inform them of his personal circumstances, or for them to give him more notice, they
werent required to. So Im satisfied that Sainsburys did nothing wrong here.
Ive then thought about what Mr S has said about section 16.3 of the general terms and
conditions for the Sainsburys credit card  this is available on their website. This does state
that if we decide to change a term of this agreement we will tell you at least 7 calendar days
before the change, unless the change is to your disadvantage, in which case we will give
you 30 calendar days notice of any such change. But because Sainsburys sent the notice
of variation in March 2018, which changed this term of his agreement, then they did follow
section 16.3 by giving him more than 30 calendar days here, as they didnt reduce his credit
limit for more than two years after this notice of variation.
Next Ive considered what Mr S has said about the impact of the credit limit reduction on his
credit file. He said this would affect his credit utilisation percentage, which could lower his
credit score. I understand the point Mr S is making, as this can form part of a credit score.
But it only forms a small part of any credit score with other factors, such as missed
payments, going over the credit limit and such like, having a far greater impact. So if Mr S
does apply for credit, its his repayment record, and keeping within the limit, as well as other
factors, that a lender will take into account when deciding to lend. Whilst I understand Mr Ss
concerns, Sainsburys is nevertheless able to reduce a credit limit under the terms and
conditions of the account as Ive already explained.
Mr S has said that if a complaint had been raised due to a dispute over the account then no
further arrears should be reported until the complaint had been resolved. But Sainsburys are
required by the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority  to accurately report payment
history to the credit reference agencies, regardless of whether a dispute or complaint has
been raised  and they dont consider the account to be in dispute. Sainsburys would be
responsible to amend incorrect information they reported to a credit reference agency as a
result of an upheld dispute or complaint - if they had recorded incorrect information here, as
required by the Information Commissioners Office but Ive seen no evidence that they have
reported any incorrect information.
Although both parties agree that Mr S was told incorrect information about reactivating his
account, this wouldnt be something which should affect his credit file as Sainsburys made a
business decision to lower his credit limit. So whether his account was active or not, then the
credit limit reduction would have been reported to the credit reference agencies regardless
of any service shortfalls they may have given Mr S.
Unfortunately, as Sainsburys explained in their final response letter, they are unable to
reopen Mr Ss account due to the timeframe that had passed since the wrong information
they gave him. So Ive considered what Mr S wants as compensation, if they were unable to
reactivate his account.
Im unable to agree that it would be fair for Sainsburys to compensate Mr S with the
outstanding balance as this would have been from genuine transactions that Mr S has made,
so its only fair he pays this money back.Im also unable to agree it would be fair for Sainsburys to refund any interest payments to
Mr S. I say this as interest would have been payable on the balance regardless of whether
the credit limit had been reduced or not.
Ive considered the likely impact the wrong information would have had on Mr S. Theres no
doubt it would have been frustrating for Mr S. He says he wouldnt have taken the actions
that he did if he wouldve known he wouldnt have been able to reactivate his account. So I
do think the wrong information has impacted him. But in looking at the likely impact, Im
persuaded that £50 is fair compensation for what happened here.
I say this as Mr Ss credit limit had been reduced  which Ive explained Sainsburys were
entitled to do, so what he couldve spent on his account would have been very limited. So
Im not persuaded that this merits higher compensation as £50 is broadly in line with what I
would have awarded Mr S had Sainsburys not upheld this part of his complaint. So it follows
I dont intend to ask Sainsburys to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Sainsburys accepted the provisional decision. Mr S did not respond to the 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman