DRN-1323810
 
The complaint
Ms R complains that Nationwide Building Society refused to allow a cheque to be paid into 
her partner's account.
What happened
Ms R says she was waiting for a new Nationwide account card in around April 2019 and paid 
a cheque for her wages, into her partners Nationwide account. She says the transaction was 
successful and her partner then transferred her money back to her. Ms R says she did the 
same the following week as she gets paid weekly. But Nationwide refused to allow the 
cheque to be paid into her partner's account and sent the cheque back to her employer. She 
says this caused problems with her employer and caused difficulty paying bills and living 
expenses. Ms R would like compensation for what took place and says she will close her 
accounts and move the £10,000 she has in them. She also questions if Nationwide has 
breached data protection rules by processing the first cheque.
Nationwide says the account terms and conditions make clear that a cheque can only be 
paid into an account in the same name. It says it didn't make a mistake and will not pay 
compensation. It also says it was under no obligation to process the first cheque.
Ms R unhappy with that response brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't 
think Nationwide had made a mistake or acted unfairly. The investigator thought Nationwide 
had acted in line with the account terms and conditions when the account name and cheque 
payable details were different. The investigator also thought it wasn't our role to decide if 
there was a data breach and didn't think there was evidence on Ms R's account statements 
of missed direct debits. The investigator thought Nationwide had fairly explained the position 
to Ms R's employer and didn't think there was evidence of financial loss.
Ms R doesn't accept that view and would like it reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think that Ms R would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. And I can see they say that a cheque paid into an 
account must be in the name of the account holder. There is no dispute here that Ms R tried 
to pay a cheque payable to her into her partner's sole account. So I don't think Nationwide 
made a mistake or acted unfairly by refusing to carry out the transaction and by returning the 
cheque to Ms R's employer. I appreciate that may have caused Ms R some inconvenience 
but I'm satisfied the terms and conditions are clear on this issue.I also don't think it clear why 
Ms R paid the cheque into her partner's account. I appreciate she says she was waiting for a 
new account card. But I can see from her statements, that she appears to have used the account card for contactless payments at the time she was paying the cheques into her 
partners account.
I accept that Nationwide previously allowed Ms R to pay a cheque into her partner's account 
without issue. I don't think Nationwide has explained exactly why it did so and I think it likely 
that it can't explain the exact reasons for doing so. It says it may have allowed the 
transaction using its discretion. But in any event I don't think that matters and I don't think its 
actions set a precedent. For the reasons I have explained I'm satisfied the key point is that 
the terms and conditions are clear on this issue. And as the investigator has explained it's 
not our role to decide if by allowing the transaction Ms R started, that amounts to a data 
protection breach.
I have no doubt Ms R was caused inconvenience as a result of what took place and would 
have been without her money while the position was sorted out. But as I don't think 
Nationwide made a mistake or acted unfairly then I can't order it to pay any compensation to 
her. In any event I have not seen any evidence from Ms R's account statements of any 
financial difficulty or that she has provided evidence of any financial loss as a result of what 
took place. And I can see that she says she has potential access to £10,000 savings and 
appeared to have access to another account.
Overall I'm satisfied Nationwide hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman