DRN-1061648
 
The complaint
Mr T complains about the customer service he received from Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) when he applied for a credit card. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr T tried to apply for a credit card with RBS online. He experienced difficulty in 
doing this so contacted RBS directly. Over the course of some weeks in trying to make this 
application Mr T said he spoke with a number of different advisors on the telephone over 
many hours. He said he was also sent to a branch to apply for the card but was refused 
service. He complained to RBS. 
In its first final response RBS partially upheld Mr T's complaint. It accepted the issues Mr T 
had had when applying for a new credit card online. It also accepted he didn't receive an 
agreed call back. It did not accept other elements of the complaint related to branch staff 
refusing to assist Mr T when making the credit card application and his complaint that the 
facility to make an application over the phone had been removed. It sent Mr T a cheque for 
£50. 
Mr T wasn't satisfied with this response and took his complaint further within RBS. In its 
second final response RBS provided a fuller explanation about the problems with its online 
application service and why he would not have been able to apply at the particular branch Mr 
T was sent to. It also apologised for some administration errors and sent Mr T a cheque for a 
further £50. 
Mr T remained unhappy. He believed RSB had not addressed the length of time he had 
spent on the phone with a number of different operators dealing with this application. He felt 
he had been caused substantial and ongoing hassle, uncertainty and inconvenience. Mr T 
brought his complaint to this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to him, but having done so, I won't be asking RBS to do anything further. 
First, I've seen that Mr T has made numerous points in support of his complaint and  I can 
see this situation has been very frustrating and stressful for him.  I know that I've 
summarised this complaint in far less detail and in my own words. If I don't respond to every 
point this is not because I haven't carefully considered it, but because I don't believe I need 
to mention it in order to come to what I believe is the right outcome. No discourtesy is meant 
by this.
RBS has accepted that the online application process has been problematic and is system 
related. This is unfortunate and I can understand it was frustrating for Mr T who very much 
wanted to apply online for the card. In addition it has also accepted it incorrectly advised Mr T to visit a branch, which was not branded RBS, to complete an application. This visit, I'm 
sure, would have taken unnecessary time and effort. 
Mr T has said that he spent many hours talking to a number of different operators within 
RBS trying to sort this situation out. And it appears these calls contributed a lot to the 
customer service he complains about. I don't dispute this. In his complaint to RBS he asked 
several times for it to locate and listen to these calls as evidence of the customer service he 
received. RBS has said it located two but not the rest. Nevertheless, in the second final 
response letter it did accept that Mr T had been trying to resolve the matter from April 
onwards. And I'm satisfied it has accepted and apologised for the poor customer service and 
administrative errors. So I must decide what an appropriate level of compensation should be.
Mr T has not informed us he has suffered any direct financial loss as a result of these bank 
errors. He said he spent a lot of time on the phone, and I don't dispute this, but according to 
the call records on his phone bill he hasn't been charged for the individual calls. 
When we consider awards for non-financial loss, we think about the individual circumstances 
and the effect on the people involved. There isnt a set formula we use to calculate awards 
for particular errors  its my role to look at the overall picture and decide what would be fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. Also it's not our role to punish a business. 
Mr T was making an application for a new credit card and in effect applying for a new 
product. And while I'm aware the application experience for Mr T was difficult, frustrating and 
time-consuming, I must also consider that Mr T did have another option. As this was a new 
application Mr T could have stopped the application after being unable to apply online or 
after receiving poor customer service and gone to an alternative credit card provider. I 
realise this would have been an inconvenience but, nevertheless it was an option. 
I do sympathise with Mr T's frustration at the customer service he received and can 
understand his strength of feeling on this matter. But I'm satisfied that £100 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and what I would expect, so I'm not going 
to tell RBS to do anything further
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman