DRN-3989961
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt apply interest to reimbursements he 
received from them.
What happened
Barclays explained to Mr H that theyd identified that his account had incorrectly been 
charged interest and fees several years ago and that those incorrectly charged amounts 
would be reimbursed to him. Mr H wanted Barclays to apply interest to the reimbursements, 
but Barclays declined to do so. Mr H wasnt happy about this, or that Barclays hadnt 
provided a breakdown of the reimbursements as he asked for, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays responded to Mr Hs complaint and reiterated that they wouldnt be applying 
interest to the reimbursements, although they didnt provide an explanation as to why this 
was the case. Barclays did provide the breakdown of the reimbursements that Mr H had 
requested, and they apologised to Mr H for not providing this to him sooner and made a 
payment of £100 to him as compensation for any trouble and upset this may have caused. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied that Barclays werent applying interest to the reimbursements, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They received an explanation from 
Barclays that the reason no interest was being applied to the reimbursements was because 
Mr Hs account balance at the time of the charges wasnt in a position of credit, and so no 
interest would have accrued on the amounts had they not been incorrectly taken. Our 
investigator felt Barclays explanation was reasonable and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr 
H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Barclays have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations 
would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective and after taking all the circumstances of a complaint into consideration. 
It also must be noted that this service is only permitted to consider aspects of a complaint 
that the respondent business has already had an opportunity to review and respond to. In 
this case, I note that since bringing his complaint to this service, Mr H has expanded his 
complaint to include a dissatisfaction with the breakdown of reimbursements provided to him 
by Barclays. 
But this aspect of Mr Hs complaint hasnt yet been raised with Barclays so that they can 
consider and respond to it. Indeed, I note that when Mr H referred his complaint to this 
service, he stated that he was happy with the breakdown and that his complaint was centred 
on the non-application of interest.  As such, If Mr H is now dissatisfied with the 
reimbursement breakdown provided to him by Barclays, he will need to raise this issue with 
Barclays as a new complaint and allow them the opportunity to respond to it. Accordingly, 
Im satisfied that this aspect of Mr Hs complaint falls outside the remit of what I can consider 
here, and I wont refer to it further. 
Mr H is unhappy that Barclays havent applied interest to the reimbursements theyve made 
to him. Barclays have been able to demonstrate that when the incorrectly taken interest and 
charges were taken from Mr Hs account, the account wasnt in a position of credit, which 
means that no interest would have accrued on those amounts, had they not been taken.
This seems reasonable to me, and I wouldnt expect a business to provide interest on 
reimbursed amounts that wouldnt have been eligible to accrue interest in the first instance. 
Additionally, its evident that Mr Hs account never went into a position of credit following the 
amounts being incorrectly taken, but that the account was defaulted with a significant 
outstanding balance for non-payment by Barclays a few years later. 
As such, Im satisfied that Mr H was never denied access to the incorrectly charged amounts 
in any form where interest would have accrued on those amounts at any time. Instead, had 
those amounts not been incorrectly taken, the balance of Mr Hs account at the time of 
default would have been less than was actually the case, but wouldnt have been in a 
position of credit such that the default would have been likely avoided or that the incorrectly 
taken amounts would ever had been eligible to accrue interest. 
All of which means Im satisfied that it is fair and reasonable for Barclays to have not applied 
interest to these reimbursements to Mr H.
Finally, Barclays have made a payment to Mr H of £100 as compensation for not providing a 
breakdown of the reimbursements to him as quickly as they should have done. Matters of 
compensation can be subjective, but the £100 that Barclays have paid Mr H seems like a fair 
compensation amount to me for this specific issue, and I can confirm its commensurate with 
what I may have instructed Barclays to have paid, had they not already done so. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr H was wanting here, but it follows from the above that 
I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action. I trust 
Mr H will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman