DRN-4217854
The complaint
Ms Ts complaint is about a secured loan she took out in 2007 with Lender W, which is now 
owned by Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited. Ms Ts representative has said:
the loan was mis-sold because it was lent irresponsibly as it was not affordable. This is 
because the combined payments to Miss Ts main mortgage and this loan represented 
63% of her household income; 
the debt cannot be enforced given the amount of time that has passed since it was 
advanced and no payments had been made  it is statute barred under the Limitation Act 
1980; and
the requirements under the consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) for provision of information 
to Ms T were not complied with between October 2008 and March 2016, which means 
that the debt cannot be enforced until the non-compliance is rectified. The lack of 
required notices means that interest and charges should not have been added to the 
debt.
In light of this, Miss T wants the charge removed from her property and the debt written off.
What happened
In December 2007 Ms Ts loan was advanced for £25,000 by Lender W with a repayment 
term of 15 years. The account was declared in default in April 2010 because payments 
hadnt been made for most of the term. At this point, rather than pursue possession of the 
property, Lender W simply terminated the agreement. This meant that interest ceased to be 
charged on the account and no further charges were applied. The loan balance has not 
changed since. Lender W went out of business and the loan was transferred to Cabot in July 
2014.
In November 2021 Ms Ts representative raised a complaint with Cabot on her behalf.
Cabot responded to the complaint on 7 February 2022. It confirmed that the loan had been 
advanced by Lender W, and that it had bought the loan in 2014 after Lender W went out of 
business. Following that it had transferred the charge into its name, which it had confirmed 
to Ms T at the time. Cabot said that as the loan was secured on Ms Ts property it could not 
be statute barred under the Limitation Act 1980. In relation to the allegation of irresponsible 
lending, Cabot confirmed that as the loan had been advanced by Lender W, it was not 
responsible for the acts complained about. As for the matter of the compliance with the CCA 
regulations, it said that the complaint had been made too late. 
Ms T was not satisfied with Cabots response and asked us to look into the matter. One of 
our investigators looked into our jurisdiction to consider the complaint. He explained that we 
could not look at the complaint about the irresponsible lending against Cabot, as it was not 
responsible for the act complained about. He also thought that, even if we could, the 
complaint would have been made too late under the time limits contained in our rules.
Ms Ts representative didnt accept the investigators conclusions. The investigator 
considered the further comments, but he remained of the opinion that we could not consider 
the complaint about the irresponsible lending, as Cabot was not responsible for that aspect 
of the complaint. 
Ms Ts representative put forward that as Ms Ts debt had been bought from Lender W, 
Cabot would have inherited responsibility for all past acts or omissions on the part of 
Lender W. In addition, it said that Cabot had a responsibility to check that the loan had not 
been mis-sold before it started the process to enforce the debt. The representative asked 
that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
I issued a jurisdiction decision on 27 June 2023 setting out our jurisdiction as it related to 
Ms Ts complaint. I concluded that we could not consider the first complaint point against 
Cabot and we should not consider the second. However, the third point of the complaint did 
fall within our jurisdiction and so I went on to consider its merits. Below is an excerpt of my 
findings.
As Ms Ts representative has pointed out there are requirements in place for the information 
that needs to be provided to a borrower for loans that are covered by the CCA. 
Cabot has confirmed that Ms Ts loan was declared in default by Lender W in 2010. At that 
time Lender W would have issued Ms T with a default notice, which would have set out how 
much she owed and told her the full amount was payable at that time. Following this, the 
requirement for SPSs and arrears notices ceased. As such, I cant find that Cabot was in the 
wrong by not issuing such documentation. As for notification of default sums when charges 
are added, again these would not have needed to be issued by Cabot. This is because no 
charges have been added by Cabot since it took ownership of the account. 
I would also confirm that, even if we were to find failings on the information Cabot provided 
Ms T from 2014, or to have found that Lender W didnt issue the appropriate default 
notification in 2010, the remedy would be that Cabot would not have been entitled to charge 
interest or apply charges, or ask Ms T to pay any such additions to the loan applied by 
Lender W. As no interest or charges have been applied to the account by either lender since 
the default date, there would be no redress due Ms T.
Cabot acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed it had nothing to add.
Ms Ts presentative didnt accept my provisional decision. However, other than to highlight 
that Cabot had a duty to administer the loan going forward in line with the CCA 
requirements, the representative didnt make any comment on the merits of the part of the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ts representative has highlighted that Cabot had a responsibility to administer the 
complaint in line with CCA requirements. That is not in question; Cabot inherited the duty to 
provide information, serve enforcement notice, default notice, termination notice, supply a 
settlement figure and a termination statement. However, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, as the account was declared in default in 2010 and no further charged or interest 
have been added there were no requirements for regular provision of information. As for the 
latter obligations, the need for those activities have not as yet arisen in relation to Ms Ts 
account. 
The representative has also highlighted that if these obligations are not met, either by Cabot or Lender W, the debt cant be enforced. Again, as I said in the provisional decision, if 
Lender W didnt fulfil its obligations for documentation under CCA, it would potentially have 
an effect on Cabots rights under the agreement. However, the main one would be that it 
would be unable to charge interest on the debt, which it hasnt anyway. In relation to 
enforcing the debt, if Lender W was deficient when issuing the default notice, Cabot wouldnt 
be able to enforce the debt until it had rectified that omission, but it would not mean it could 
never enforce the debt. In any event, the capacity or otherwise of a creditor to enforce a debt 
through the courts is a matter for the courts, not this service. 
As neither party have provided any new evidence, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional conclusion. That being that Cabot did nothing wrong in not providing the 
documentation Ms Ts representative has said it failed to provide after it took over the loan in 
2014, because it didnt have to because the loan had already been defaulted.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms T to accept or reject my decision before 
28 July 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman