DRN-3160847
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) refused his claim under his motor 
insurance policy following the theft of his car.
What happened
Mr J took out an insurance policy with Allianz in September 2018, having bought a rare 
classic car valued at £45,000 which was advertised for sale in a classic car publication. He 
paid for the car in cash. 
After purchase, Mr J stored his car in a rented garage and said that hed used various 
locking devices to secure the car and garage. He hadnt visited the garage during December 
2018 due to work commitments.
At the beginning of January 2019, Mr J discovered that the garage door was open and that 
the car had been stolen. Mr J reported the matter to the police and to Allianz. Following a 
lengthy investigation, Allianz repudiated (refused) Mr Js claim and retained the premiums Mr 
J had paid.
Allianz stated in its final response letter in January 2021 that, following a review, it could see 
that; there are many discrepancies over the validity of your claim and the lack of supporting 
evidence you can provide, and without this I do not believe the claims team should have 
acted differently.
Mr J was dissatisfied with Allianz response and he instructed a solicitor. He said that hed 
taken out his insurance policy with Allianz in good faith and had kept his car in a garage with 
security in place, including removal of the car battery and provision of a steering lock and 
locks on the garage door. He considered that his claim had not been handled in a fair and 
reasonable way. He stated that he no longer had the car, the money hed spent to buy it, or 
the V5 logbook and keys which Allianz had refused to return to him.
Mr J complained to our service and, following consideration of the available evidence, our 
investigator reached the view that Allianz hadnt treated Mr J fairly and reasonably in 
rejecting his claim under the policy. Our investigator considered that there was enough 
evidence that the car was owned by Mr J and that a theft had taken place. She concluded 
therefore that an insured event had taken place and that it was for Allianz to provide a valid 
reason for applying an exclusion under the policy. 
Allianz didnt agree with this view and the matter has therefore been referred to me in order 
to come to a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive concluded that, on the balance of probabilities, Allianz didnt act in a fair 
and reasonable manner under the terms and conditions of Mr Js policy in rejecting his claim. 
Ill explain why.
I note that the terms and conditions of Mr Js motor insurance policy cover theft of his vehicle 
as follows:-
Cover for.Theft Damage 
This cover only applies to the insured vehicle. We will cover You for loss of or damage to the 
insured vehicle that is caused by: 
 Theft
The terms and conditions of the policy upon which Allianz have relied at different stages in 
repudiating Mr Js claim are as follows:
Claims Procedure
You mustgive Us any information We may need without delay.
Fraud
If You or anyone acting on Your behalf makes a false or fraudulent claim or supports a claim 
by false or fraudulent document, device or statement, this policy shall be void and You will 
forfeit all rights immediately under the policy. In such circumstances, We retain the right to 
keep the premium and to recover any sums paid by the way of benefit under this policy and 
recover any costs We have incurred relating to the fraudulent claim 
Ive also noted the following exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy: -
We shall not be liable to pay for:
 Loss or damage to the insured vehicle as a result of someone taking it by fraud 
or deception 
 Loss of or damage to Your vehicle or its contents by Theft or attempted Theft 
if You have not taken reasonable care to protect it 
 Loss of or damage to Your vehicle if it has been left unlocked or with the keys in it 
 Loss of or damage to Your Vehicle relating to Theft, which has not been reported 
to the police 
Allianz has expressed a number of concerns and it was concerned firstly about ownership of 
the car. It wasnt satisfied that production of a V5 logbook was sufficient on its own to prove 
Mr Js ownership. It considered that the photographs of the car which Mr J had supplied 
were inadequate. It had concerns about the method of payment for the car to an apparent 
stranger with no audit trail as to the source of the funds and that the receipt from the seller 
was unsigned. It was also concerned that Mr J didnt appear to have carried out any health 
checks regarding the cars background.
Mr J said that he had been looking to purchase this classic car for some time, he had 
arranged to rent a garage for its safekeeping, he had obtained the V5 logbook and keys. He 
said that hed taken the photographs, as Allianz had asked Mr J for photographs of specific 
angles of the car before agreeing to provide cover for the vehicle. His representative 
produced further photographs showing the car in the garage. As to the method of payment, 
Mr J said that this came from cash savings hed made over a number of years, as well as the 
sale of other items. He said that the car was his security and pension. The seller had 
provided further confirmation of the sale to Mr Js solicitor and this letter had been signed.
Allianz also had concerns about what it considered to be discrepancies in the claim itself and 
insufficient evidence of loss. It wasnt satisfied that production of an initial police report about the incident was sufficient to prove loss. Allianz was also concerned that insufficient and 
unevidenced security measures had been taken by Mr J to protect his car. Finally, it was 
concerned about lack of evidence in relation to the theft and noted that there was no 
damage to the locks on the garage or signs of removal of the car.
Mr J said that he reported the incident to the police on the date of discovery and that he 
received a crime reference number. A police report had been produced however hed 
received no further updates following this. Mr J had described the security measures hed 
taken, however he didnt have receipts or further evidence of these measures. He said that 
the padlock he had on the garage lock had disappeared following the theft.
Allianz stated that it was for Mr J to prove his loss and it didnt believe Mr J had provided 
enough evidence to support his claim. It said that he hadnt provided sight of the battery 
which he said that hed removed from the car as a security measure. It said that he didnt 
have a receipt for purchase of the steering or garage locks. It also made the point that 
removing the car and perhaps putting it on a low loader without leaving any paint marks on 
the garage or raising any concerns in the surrounding area would be a difficult, if not 
impossible task. It was also concerned that Mr J hadnt provided pictures of the garage after 
the event. It considered there was no positive, objective evidence that the car had been 
stolen.
Mr J said that he didnt take photographs at the scene of the theft as he was given the clear 
impression that that this was going to be carried out by the Allianz investigator who had 
interviewed him. He said that he hadnt kept receipts for any of the locks. 
The starting point for my conclusions is therefore as follows. I agree with Allianz that the 
burden of proof is on the consumer to prove that an insured event took place. If the insurer 
then wishes to decline a claim, it must show that it can rely on a term within the policy to 
exclude it. Sometimes a policyholder might not be able to provide enough information to 
demonstrate that he suffered a loss as claimed. This doesnt necessarily mean its more 
likely than not the claim is fraudulent, but it may still mean an insurer is entitled to reject the 
claim.
Turning firstly to the question of ownership of the car, I appreciate that Allianz has concerns 
about the circumstances of and method of purchase of the car. Although unusual, I conclude 
that, on the balance of probabilities, the transaction did take place. Ive seen a copy of the 
advert which was placed in a classic car publication, advertising the car for sale for £45,000. 
Ive also seen the V5 logbook showing the date on which Mr J bought the car, an unsigned 
receipt, but also, a signed confirmation of sale by the seller which was sent directly to Mr Js 
solicitor.
Ive also noted that Mr J sent photographs of the vehicle to Allianz when it was arranging 
insurance cover for Mr J. Im satisfied that Allianz would have had the opportunity to raise 
any queries or concerns about the photographs at that stage. Ive also seen photographs of 
the car in the garage which Mr J says he rented for the storage of his car. On the balance of 
probabilities therefore, the evidence persuades me that Mr J did buy the car for £45,000 in 
September 2018 and that he then stored it in his rented garage following its purchase.
Turning secondly to the question of loss, Allianz argues that Mr J hasnt been able to prove 
that a theft took place. I appreciate that Mr J has supplied no supporting evidence of the 
security measures which hed put in place. The photographs which Ive seen of the garage 
bolt have been taken following the theft and the photographs prior to the theft dont evidence 
any security measures. Im satisfied however that Mr J reported the theft both to the police and to Allianz on the date 
that he became aware of it. Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the car was stolen 
from his rented garage between the end of November 2018 and beginning of January 2019. 
Apart from filing a police report, theres little else Mr J would be able to do to prove that his 
car had been stolen. The absence of evidence of security measures or damage to the locks, 
or paintwork, or the absence of an explanation by Mr J as to how the theft could have 
happened does not constitute evidence that a theft didnt take place.
As to any alleged discrepancies, the summary of the police report matches up to what Mr J 
told Allianz and the accounts Mr J has provided on different occasions are broadly 
consistent. Im satisfied that Mr J thought that Allianz would be taking photographs of the 
garage and any damage in January 2019 and that it didnt do so until April 2019 which was 
some months after the incident and was unlikely to produce useful evidence in the 
circumstances. 
In conclusion, based on everything that Ive seen and read, Im satisfied that Mr J has shown 
that a theft took place. It then falls to Allianz to provide a valid reason as to why an exclusion 
should apply. Looking at the terms and conditions of the policy upon which Allianz relied, 
there is insufficient evidence to indicate that Mr J failed to provide Allianz with relevant 
information or that the claim was fraudulent.
I recognise that Allianz has carried out considerable investigation work, however Im satisfied 
on the balance of probabilities that Mr J owned the car in question and that a theft took place 
which was a loss event covered by the insurance policy provided by Allianz. Im also 
satisfied that Allianz hasn't acted in a fair and reasonable manner by seeking to exclude 
cover in these circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Js complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc and I 
require Allianz Insurance Plc to:
- Review Mr Js claim on the basis that the terms and conditions previously relied upon by 
Allianz (as above) have been met.
- Following review, if Allianz then declines the claim using different terms and conditions, it 
must return the keys and logbook to Mr J.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman