DRN-2759919
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service hes received from Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) when 
he tried to let them know he was experiencing financial difficulty. 
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties.
Rather than repeat what is already known to both parties and not generally in dispute, in my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr R that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Poor communication
Its not in dispute that there were some delays after Mr R notified Vanquis that he was 
experiencing financial difficulty because of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on his 
work. Im sorry to hear of this impact on Mr R. 
Mr R has said he tried to call Vanquis around the beginning of April 2020 but was unable to 
speak to anyone. In their final response letter Vanquis explained that due to higher call 
volumes and staff having to self-isolate because of COVID-19, unfortunately some 
customers did have to wait longer than theyd have liked.
Although very frustrating for Mr R, the delays he experienced both in trying to speak to 
Vanquis on the phone and them responding to his emails occurred at a time when Vanquis 
was trying to continue to offer its services against the backdrop of the global COVID-19 
pandemic and all the challenges it presented. 
I find that the compensation and apologies offered by Vanquis to Mr R for the telephone 
delays and delay in replying to his email dated 11 April 2020 fair, reasonable and 
proportionate to the impact of their actions on Mr R. 
Mr Rs financial difficulties
Mr R had explained that he expected demand for his work to increase as restrictions were 
eased slightly in July 2020. 
I find that by refunding the relevant charges back to April, Vanquis have put Mr R in the 
position he wouldve been in had he initially been able to speak to them in early April 2020. 
Vanquis also agreed to a payment freeze on this credit card account until 9 July 2020 which 
I consider positive. I say this because this was inline with the FCA guidance at the time and 
it allowed Mr R a bit of time and space for his financial circumstances to improve. 
After this arrangement ended, Vanquis agreed a repayment plan with Mr R. Under this 
arrangement, Mr R agreed to pay £20 per month and no interest or late payment fees would 
be charged. Vanquis let Mr R know the account status and repayment plan would be 
reported to the relevant credit reference agencies. Again, I find that Vanquis have treated
Mr R fairly here. 
Although Mr R has referred to this credit card account being recorded as defaulted, our 
investigator has pointed out the information Mr R provided refers to a loan and not this credit 
card account. Mr R was also given the opportunity to clarify what adverse information has 
been recorded in relation to this credit card account but no further supporting evidence has 
been provided. 
Summary 
Overall, although there may have been some delays with Mr R being able to speak to 
Vanquis and them replying to his emails in April 2020, I havent seen strong supporting 
evidence that hes lost out further as a result of these delays  to the extent that I require 
Vanquis to take any further action to put things right. 
When I consider the refund of the charges alongside their other positive actions; such as 
agreeing to the payment freeze and repayment plan afterwards, I dont uphold this 
complaint. Overall I find that Vanquis have treated Mr R fairly and reasonably.
I know Mr R will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with Vanquis  can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman