DRN-2135013
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) were wrong to start reporting his 
account to the credit reference agencies and as he didnt ask for the account to be changed 
they should offer him a new one that isnt reported.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ms frustration and I know it will disappoint him but having read through the 
details of this issue I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Halifax have explained that the terms and conditions of Mr Ms cashcard account have 
evolved over the years and that whilst they wouldnt have reported his account to the credit 
reference agencies when he first took it out, they need to now as theres a contactless card 
attached to it and thats a reportable product.
The Information Commissioners Office provide guidance on credit reporting and they say 
that any product which relates to the provision of goods or services before they are paid for 
can potentially be included in your credit reference file. I would agree that a contactless card 
could be a form of credit as retailers do not have to check how much money is in the account 
before accepting the card payment, and that may mean the account goes overdrawn.
So, I can understand that Halifax would want to report the account to the credit reference 
agencies. 
But Mr M is upset that they didnt tell him they were doing that. Halifax have paid him £70 
compensation in respect of the inconvenience that caused him. Theyve explained that they 
dont have an account that they can offer that doesnt report to the credit reference agencies 
and I dont think thats unreasonable.
Ive considered whether that compensation is sufficient,  and Im persuaded it is. Ive not 
seen evidence that Halifax have reported any negative information to Mr Ms account that 
could have impacted on his ability to obtain credit and it seems theyve been reporting the 
account information accurately. So, Im not asking them to increase the compensation 
theyve paid. 
I understand that Mr M is upset they paid him compensation without his consent, but I dont 
think that was an error. Mr M could have returned the money had he wished, and I havent 
found that Halifaxs redress was unreasonable.
I also understand that Mr M is upset about the service hes received from Halifax in relation 
to this issue. Ive had a look through Halifaxs system notes and can see that a call back 
wasnt received. I can see that Halifax apologised about that and, in the circumstances, I 
dont think they needed to do anything more. Ive also noted that attempts were made to 
explain the reasons why the account was being reported to the credit reference agencies 
and overall, Im not persuaded Halifax need to take any further action about the quality of the 
service they have offered in relation to this matter.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman