DRN-4241188
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the way Acromas Insurance Company Limited handled a 
claim under their roadside assistance policy. 
Although this complaint has been brought by Mr and Mrs C, for ease, Ive referred to Mr C 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are known to both parties, so Ive summarised whats 
happened. 
In December 2022, whilst travelling abroad, Mr C required roadside assistance when 
his vehicle broke down on a motorway. The car was recovered and taken to a garage 
where he was told new parts would be required.  
Mr C called Acromas to say he couldnt get to his planned destination  a pre-booked 
hotel  which was an hour away and that hed been advised to book and stay in a 
local hotel  which he did. But he was unhappy because the hotel didnt provide food 
or beverages.
Upon realising he was eligible for a hire car, he asked Acromas to arrange a hire car 
so he could continue to his pre-booked hotel. 
Mr C says Acromas told him it would be difficult to get a rental car because the car 
agencies had closed for the day - as it was evening time - and that it would call him 
back with an update. Mr C says he never received a call back and so had to call 
again  at which point he was told a rental car wouldnt be available until the 
morning. 
Mr C says he didnt receive a call back in the morning and had to call Acromas to find 
out when the hire car would be available. 
Having decided to walk to the garage to get an update on his vehicle, he was told it 
had been fixed. 
Mr C complained to Acromas saying the lack of updates meant hed unnecessarily 
stayed in a hotel waiting for an update. He says a rental car should have been 
offered to him when he first called  if it had, he could have continued with his 
original plans. He says the experience impacted the first few days of his holiday and 
so, he wants compensation to reflect this.  
In its final response Acromas accepted its communication had fallen short and it 
apologised for not being able to locate Mr Cs original complaint from the time of the 
incident. So, it paid £75 compensation to reflect the difficulties Mr C had experienced.
But Acromas didnt accept it was responsible for the difficulties experienced in 
sourcing a hire car. It said requests for repairs and hire cars are through third party 
firms and so, its reliant on the third-party firms providing good customer service. 
Unhappy, Mr C brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
said Acromas should pay £150 compensation in total. Acromas accepted the 
Investigators view, but Mr C said the compensation didnt reflect the difficulties he 
experienced and so, he asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached  Ill explain why. 
Its important to recognise theres always going to be a degree of inconvenience and stress 
when a consumer finds themselves in a situation where their vehicle has broken down. And 
so, it wouldnt be fair to attribute inconvenience which would ordinarily be expected in such 
situations to the insurer. 
Acromas has acknowledged its service fell short at times and has paid compensation to 
recognise this. Our Investigator didnt think the compensation was sufficient and awarded a 
further £75 - so whats left for me to consider is whether this reasonably reflects the 
difficulties Mr C experienced when he made his claim to Acromas. 
Communication
I dont doubt the lack of updates on Acromas behalf caused Mr C frustration. And because 
he had to make several calls to find out what was going on, Im satisfied Acromas caused 
him avoidable inconvenience. 
Its also disappointing that due to a lack of communication on Acromas part, Mr C felt he 
had no option but to walk a potentially unsafe route to the garage where his car was being 
repaired to find out whether it could be fixed. 
Hire car
Mr C has said the policy includes hire vehicle cover but that he wasnt told about this when 
he first logged his claim. He considers that had a hire car been arranged in the first instance, 
he would have been able to continue with his holiday plans and he wouldnt have 
experienced the inconvenience he did. 
Its plausible that had a hire car been sourced earlier on any inconvenience could have been 
lessened - and like our Investigator said, Mr C did potentially miss out on an opportunity to 
limit the disruption to his holiday. But Im not entirely persuaded by this argument. I say this 
because the policy document says: Car hire availability or equivalent replacement for your 
vehicle cannot be guaranteed. 
So, even if Acromas had requested a hire car in the first instance, or as soon as it was 
notified as to the extent of the repairs to Mr Cs car, theres no guarantee he would have 
been given one on the same day - particularly when, as Acromas had explained to him, 
there was low availability due to the time of year. 
Acromas has explained it doesnt automatically request a hire vehicle when a claim is initially 
logged because it first needs to find out what repairs are required and how long these may take - and it wont know this until the vehicle has been taken to a garage. On the face of it, 
this seems reasonable, but I think it would have been helpful for this to have been explained 
to Mr C when he first logged his claim to better manage his expectations.
Accommodation 
Mr C is unhappy the only available hotel near the garage repairing his car was next to a 
highway and had limited food and beverage options. It seems this hotel was recommended 
by the garage. But in any event, Acromas has no control over hotel availability and so, whilst 
I appreciate the accommodation didnt meet what Mr C wanted, I dont think its reasonable 
to apportion the hospitality issues he experienced to Acromas.  
Compensation 
Whilst I appreciate the inconvenience Mr C experienced might have been felt more greatly 
because it occurred during a holiday, I must balance this with the fact: his car was repaired 
the following day; having access to a hire car within the timeframe hed wanted wasnt 
guaranteed; his interactions with Acromas occurred within a 24-hour period and so the 
overall impact was limited. 
Considering the above, Im satisfied the amount of compensation recommended by our 
investigator is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Acromas Insurance Company 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation totalling £150. It has already paid £75 which it 
can deduct from the overall sum.
Acromas Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr and Mrs C accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman