DRN-2798866
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to prevent their loss 
when they sent money to a Barclays account holder as the result of a scam.
For ease of reading, and as hes done most of the correspondence on the complaint, Ill 
mostly only refer to Mr D. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
In February 2019 Mr D was unfortunately the victim of a scam. At the time he believed he 
was dealing with a genuine investment firm and he made two transfers, each for £20,000 to 
the account details provided by the firm to fund the investment. The transfers were sent on 
consecutive days from Mr Ds own bank. The account to which those funds were credited 
was held with Barclays. 
The following month, a neighbour of Mr Ds who had also made the same investment 
informed him that he had discovered it was a scam. Mr D immediately contacted the relevant 
authorities and his own bank who in turn got in touch with Barclays. Barclays responded to 
say that they hadnt been able to recover any funds from the beneficiary account. Mr D 
raised a complaint. He was unhappy that Barclays had allowed a scammer to open and 
operate an account. He also thought that his payments were likely to have been unusual 
activity that Barclays ought to have identified and investigated.  Barclays explained that the 
account was held by a genuine company who had themselves been targeted by scammers 
and that the company would be conducting their own investigation. They maintained that 
they couldnt assist further. 
In December 2019, Mr Ds account was credited with around £15,000 which left his 
outstanding loss at around £25,000, he would like Barclays to reimburse him this amount. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Barclays response and referred the complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary he didnt think 
Barclays had acted unfairly or that they were responsible for the loss. Mr D disagrees, 
particularly as his neighbour (who he says banks with Barclays) has been reimbursed in full. 
Hes asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really sorry to hear Mr D has been the victim of a cruel scam and has suffered such a 
significant loss. But it would only be fair for me to direct Barclays to reimburse him if I think 
they failed to reasonably prevent and appropriately respond to the authorised push payment 
(APP) fraud which caused that loss. I know this will be disappointing, but I dont think they 
did, and Ill explain why.
Prevention
The account into which Mr Ds funds were credited is held by another company who have 
chosen to use Barclays for their banking. Im satisfied that Barclays conducted appropriate 
checks in line with their obligations to do so when opening that account. There is nothing to 
suggest that Barclays shouldnt have opened that account or that they failed to conduct their 
due diligence. So, I dont think Barclays could have prevented Mr Ds loss in this way. 
The activity on that account is in line with what would be expected for an account of that 
type, particularly given the business of the accountholder. As such, I dont think Mr Ds 
payments or any of the account activity ought to have stood out to Barclays as unusual or 
suspicious. I dont think there was any reason for Barclays to have intervened and to have 
asked questions of their account holder. 
Response
Mr D reported the scam to his own bank on 26 March 2019. Ive seen evidence that the 
same day this was passed on to Barclays. Barclays havent been able to evidence when 
they contacted their own account holder in relation to the scam. But they did respond on 13 
May 2019 to confirm that no funds remained. 
The nature of the services provided by the company that was Barclays account holder 
means that when a payment is received, it is typically immediately transferred out again. So 
even though Barclays cant evidence the exact steps they took upon notification, Im satisfied 
that this was passed on to their account holder. This is supported by the fact that around 
£15,000 was later returned to Mr D which wouldnt have happened had Barclays not passed 
the information on. 
And even if this information wasnt passed on as promptly as it ought to have been, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont think this is likely to have made a difference. Its most 
likely that Mr Ds funds (the latest of which credited the account on 27 February 2019) were 
already gone from the account by the time even Mr D found out hed been the victim of a 
scam the following month. 
The fact that £15,000 was later returned doesnt change my mind on this. Its entirely 
possible that this was recovered through the Barclays account holder retrieving what they 
could from any onward transfers of the funds. But as those actions werent taken by 
Barclays, it isnt something Im able to comment on. Overall, I dont think Barclays response 
to the APP fraud meant that Mr D recovered less than he otherwise would have done. 
Mr D has told us that his neighbour (who he says banks with Barclays) fell victim to the same 
scam and has received a full refund from Barclays. So, I can understand why Mr D feels 
particularly disappointed that Barclays havent refunded him. But I can only comment on 
whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of Mr Ds complaint and Im 
unable to ask Barclays to refund him simply because they have chosen to do so in other 
circumstances. If Mr Ds neighbour is a customer of Barclays then they would have 
obligations to him as their own customer as the sending bank. And whilst I wouldnt wish to 
speculate it might be that the neighbour was refunded as a result of that customer 
relationship between him and Barclays. I can only look at what Barclays did to prevent or respond to the APP fraud and on that 
basis, I dont think they are responsible for Mr Ds loss and so Im not going to direct them to 
do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman