DRN-3245574
The complaint
Mr B complains that when he tried to remortgage with OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent 
Reliance, his property was undervalued so he was unable to proceed.
What happened
In 2021, Mr B applied to remortgage a buy-to-let property with Kent Reliance. A mortgage 
valuation was carried out, but valued the property at less than Mr B thought it was worth. 
Mr B appealed the valuation and supplied details of comparable properties. But Kent 
Reliance wouldnt change the valuation. Mr B said that Kent Reliance hadnt understood the 
emails hed sent. And that he was out of pocket, as hed paid £320 for the valuation. He also 
said that he wanted compensation for the time hed spent on this matter.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt accept what the investigator said. He said that hed provided a detailed response 
to Kent Reliance supporting his valuation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only look at the acts and omissions of Kent Reliance. The valuation was carried out by 
a third party. So Kent Reliance wasnt responsible for the content of the report or the 
valuation. The valuation was carried out by a suitably qualified surveyor. I cant see that 
there were any clear errors in the report or any other reason why Kent Reliance should not 
accept what the surveyor said and base its decision on his valuation. I dont consider that 
Kent Reliance has acted unfairly or unreasonably in relying on the valuation report. 
Mr B didnt accept what the surveyor had said. He provided his own rationale why he 
considered the property had been undervalued and the sale prices of comparable properties. 
Kent Reliance rejected the first comparable properties from Mr B as two were too old and 
one lacked sufficient detail. It rejected the second set of comparable properties as there 
were a number of differences (location, purpose built, length of lease) between Mr Bs 
property and the comparable properties.
Ultimately, it is Kent Reliances decision whether to accept a property as security or not. I 
consider it had valid reasons for not overturning the valuation based on the information 
provided by Mr B. I think it reached that decision fairly and reasonably.
Mr B has pointed out that two of the comparable properties he provided were the same as 
used by the surveyor. I dont think that helps Mr B though. The surveyor took the sale prices 
of those properties into account when valuing the property. He noted they were all in better 
locations  and despite that had still sold for less than Mr B had estimated the value of his 
property. I dont consider that the decision reached by Kent Reliance was irrational or unfair.
The purpose of the valuation report was for Kent Reliance to decide if the property offered it 
suitable security. It was reasonable for it to charge Mr B the cost of obtaining the valuation  
even if Mr B doesnt agree with it. As Kent Reliance hasnt made a mistake, I cant tell it to 
refund the fee or pay Mr B any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman