DRN-4281335
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited rejected a claim on his home 
contents insurance and cancelled the policy. 
Where I refer to Advantage, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr M had an insurance policy underwritten by Advantage, which had been taken out in 2020 
and renewed in 2021 and 2022.
In October 2022, Mr M called to make a claim for a lost mobile phone claim. The phone 
belonged to his wife (Mrs M) and she spoke to the call handler to explain that she had lost 
the phone while on holiday recently. She then said they also wanted to claim for damage to 
the sofa and carpet in their living room, which had been caused by an iron falling onto the 
floor.
Mrs M explained that before going on holiday, she was ironing clothes in the living room and 
dropped the iron which bounced off the sofa and then on to the carpet. This damaged both 
the carpet and sofa. 
Advantage arranged for the claim about the damage caused by the iron to be investigated. 
The investigation report said Mrs M had said the ironing board collapsed causing the iron to 
fall and bounce off the sofa onto the carpet, damaging both.
In a later call, Mrs M said: 
Her dog had pulled the power lead, which caused the iron to fall onto the sofa next to 
where she was standing and bounce onto the carpet under the ironing board.
She had never said the ironing board collapsed and didnt know why that had been 
recorded as happening.
She normally irons in the same place in the living room. She had dropped the iron on 
a previous occasion and though she had instinctively tried to catch it, it had caused a 
mark on a different part of the carpet
She doesnt always iron in exactly the same place as it depends on where others are 
sitting.
Advantage said in view of the different accounts of what had happened and the damaged 
areas not being consistent with her accounts, it couldnt agree to settle the claim. It didnt 
accept that the iron bounced from the sofa causing damage to both the sofa and the carpet 
in the same incident.
Advantage referred to the fraud clause in the policy terms and said this allowed it to reject 
the claim and cancel or void the policy. On this basis, it rejected the claim and said the policy 
would be cancelled from 3 October 2022 (the date of the initial call to make the two claims). 
As a result, the claim for the lost mobile phone wasnt covered.
In another letter dated the same date, Advantage said it had voided the policy from 1 August 
2022 (the date of the most recent renewal), meaning it was treated as if it had never existed, 
and that it would collect an outstanding balance of £64.92 from Mr Ms bank card.
Mr M complained but Advantage didnt change its decision so he referred the complaint to 
this Service.
Our investigator said it wasnt reasonable to cancel the policy; there was evidence of 
damage and Advantage hadnt shown the claim was fraudulent. She agreed it hadnt been 
given enough evidence to validate the claim concerning the iron so it was fair to reject that 
claim, but if Mrs M could provide further details Advantage could reconsider.
She asked Advantage to
remove any records of a fraudulent claim from internal or external records; 
reinstate the policy and look into the mobile phone claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions; and
refund any voidance fees Mr M incurred as a result of the policy being voided.
Advantage hasnt accepted these recommendations and has requested an ombudsmans 
decision. It says:
the policy was cancelled, not voided;
the cancellation is in line with the policy terms, which allow it to cancel where the 
policyholder makes or tries to make a fraudulent claim or where your 
insurerreasonably suspects fraud;
because it suspects fraud the policy has been cancelled from the date the carpet 
burn occurred meaning any claims after that would not be covered, which is fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms include a Fraud clause. This says where the policyholder (or someone 
acting on their behalf) makes a fraudulent claim, provides false information or documents, or 
deliberately misleads the insurer, then depending on the circumstances Advantage 
may be entitled to refuse to pay the claim to which the alleged fraud or falsehood relates. 
They may also be entitled to cancel or avoid the policy without refunding your premium
When Advantage wrote to Mr M rejecting the claim and cancelling the policy, it referred to 
this term. 
Theres also a policy term that sets out Advantages right to cancel the policy, which says it 
may
cancel this policy without giving you notice and without refunding your premium if you:
Make or try to make a fraudulent claim under this policy or where your insurer or us 
reasonably suspects fraud
(In this definition, Us refers to the firm that sold the policy to Mr M.)
When considering this complaint, the starting point is the policy terms and conditions as they 
set out the terms of the insurance contract. But I also need to take into account any relevant 
law, together with regulators rules, guidance and standards.The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. 
The relevant law is the Insurance Act 2015, which says: 
(1) If the insured makes a fraudulent claim under a contract of insurance
a) the insurer is not liable to pay the claim,
b) the insurer may recover from the insured any sums paid by the insurer to the insured 
in respect of the claim, and
c) in addition, the insurer may by notice to the insured treat the contract as having been 
terminated with effect from the time of the fraudulent act.
I need to decide what is more likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities, based 
on the available evidence. As Advantage says the policy was cancelled due to fraud, the test 
is whether it is more likely than not that Mr M committed fraud. The remedies set out in the 
Insurance Act apply where there has been a fraudulent claim. It isnt enough for an insurer to 
say certain things make fraud a possibility  it needs to provide evidence that its more likely 
than not the consumer has made a fraudulent claim. 
Ive looked at carefully at the grounds on which Advantage made its decision and the 
evidence it relied on. Having done so, I dont think its decision was fair.
Advantage says the accounts given were inconsistent. A key point seems to be that its 
investigation report noted Mrs M as saying the ironing board collapsed, and thats different 
from the accounts given in the phone calls. 
Mrs M hasnt mentioned the ironing board collapsing in any of the phone calls, or in any 
accounts given to this Service. There is evidence in the photos of damage caused by an iron 
on the carpet, and this is consistent with it happening due to Mrs M ironing in front of the 
sofa. I dont think Advantage has shown, on the balance of probabilities, that the claim was 
fraudulent.
It's also relevant that Advantage wasnt clear about its decision, in particular whether the 
policy was cancelled or voided. Different letters sent on the same day gave different 
explanations. And it has referred to different policy terms at different times. It seems to me 
Advantage wasnt clear what the basis of its decision was.
In response to the investigators view Advantage has confirmed it has cancelled the policy, 
not voided it. It is relying on the clause that allows it to cancel where it reasonably suspects 
fraud.
I dont consider that fair. The Insurance Act sets out the remedies that may be applied where 
a claim is fraudulent and Advantage needs to show, on the balance of probabilities, the claim 
was fraudulent. It wouldnt be fair to cancel the policy just because it suspects something 
might be fraudulent. 
I appreciate that Advantage says it doesnt think the claim happened in the way Mr M says it 
did. This doesnt necessarily mean there is fraud, but it might be a valid reason for not 
paying a claim. A policyholder does need to show they have a valid claim under the policy. 
Mrs M hasnt clarified exactly she was standing or explained in full detail how the damage 
happened. Advantage could say it didnt have enough information to validate the claim. If 
Mrs M is able to confirm these details, Advantage can consider whether it then has enough 
information to validate the claim. Without that information it may be reasonable to reject it  
but thats not the same as proving the claim was fraudulent.
For these reasons I agree with the investigator that Advantage should not have treated this 
as a fraudulent claim and to put things right it should: remove any records of a fraudulent claim from all internal and external records and 
remove any fraud markers it may have recorded;
reinstate the policy and assess the mobile phone claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions (including any policy limits, excesses and premiums due); and
refund any voidance fees Mr M incurred as a result of the policy being voided or 
cancelled.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Advantage Insurance Company Limited to take the steps 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman