DRN-3807840
The complaint
Mr M complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Haven, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Haven 
responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from late June 2020 to late June 2021, Mr M had his car insured on a 
comprehensive policy with Haven. The premium was about £2,500.00.
Unfortunately, in October 2020, Mr Ms car and a third partys larger vehicle were involved in 
a collision on a roundabout.
In early December 2020, Haven paid for repair of Mr Ms damaged car. Haven sought to 
recover its outlay from the third party or their insurer.
By mid-December 2020, Mr M had instructed solicitors to seek compensation from the third 
party for a whiplash injury. A doctor had examined him and provided a report. 
In mid-March 2021, Haven told Mr M that it was disputing liability as the third partys CCTV 
showed that Mr M hadnt moved out of his lane.
Haven agreed a settlement on the basis of liability split 70/30 between Mr M and the third 
party.
In late June 2022, the solicitors said that Mr Ms injury was worth £2,600.00 to £3,000.00 but 
(based on 30% liability) the third partys insurer had offered £870.00. Mr M accepted that 
and the solicitors deducted costs of about £470.00 and sent Mr M the balance of about 
£400.00.
For the year from late June 2022, Mr M agreed to pay a premium of about £2,900.00 plus 
interest for payment by instalments.
Mr M complained to Haven that it had split liability without telling him or his solicitor.
By a final response dated mid-July 2022, Haven turned down the complaint about its 
decision on liability but upheld the complaint that it hadnt told Mr M.
Mr M brought his complaint to us in late July 2022.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He didnt think  
that Haven had fairly considered the impact its poor communication had on Mr M. The 
investigator recommended that Haven should pay Mr M £300.00 to apologise for the trouble 
and inconvenience this had caused him.
Haven agreed with the investigators opinion.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Havens bad communication caused him financial loss.
£300.00 isnt enough compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where an insurer has made an outlay on a claim, it will usually treat the claim as a fault 
claim against its policyholder unless and until it recovers that outlay in full, typically from a 
third party. Split liability will result in recovery of only part of its outlay.
Most motor policies allow the insurer to decide how best to settle a claim against a third 
party. Havens policy terms included the following:
Conduct of claims/subrogation
We will have full control over any legal proceedings brought against a third party
Where We consider it appropriate. We may admit liability on Your behalf We have 
full control of all claims covered by this policy.
 We may, at Our expense, bring a claim in Your name to recover any costs 
incurred by Us.
I consider that the effect of that term was that  on a question of the third partys liability to 
Mr M for damage to his car Havens view would prevail over Mr Ms view. But I will consider 
whether Haven applied that term fairly.
Mr M regarded the third party as 100% responsible for the accident causing damage to his 
car and injury to him. His injury was worth up to £3,000.00 in damages. But that was some 
way from being money in the bank.
In order to get any compensation from the third party, Mr M would have to persuade the third 
party to pay or persuade a court to direct the third party to pay. He instructed solicitors to 
work on such a claim. According to the later invoice, Mr M agreed to pay a fee capped at 
25% of damages recovered and a premium for after the event (ATE) legal expenses 
insurance. 
I accept that by mid-March 2021, Haven had viewed the third partys CCTV and didnt 
consider that Mr M had been at fault. However, the third partys insurer referred to a rule of 
the Highway Code requiring drivers approaching a larger vehicle to allow extra space for it to 
manoeuvre.
Haven decided that  rather than incur the cost and risk of court proceedings to recover all 
its outlay  it would accept 30% from the third party. Whilst Mr M doesnt agree with that 
settlement, I consider that it was allowed by the policy terms, and not unreasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Haven shouldve told Mr M or his solicitors promptly. But I dont think that wouldve changed 
its decision.In any event, I consider it far from certain that Mr M wouldve persuaded the third party 
insurers or a court that the third party was 100% liable for his injury. He wouldve faced the 
same point about the Highway Code.
Compared to the premium before his claim in 2020, Haven asked  Mr M to pay an increased 
premium in 2022. I consider that Haven was entitled to do so. Mr M was free to shop around 
for a better deal.
So I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint that Haven caused him a financial loss.
Putting things right
I dont doubt that  when he found out about Havens decision  Mr M suffered some upset 
and inconvenience in dealing with Haven and his solicitors. I agree with the investigator that 
£300.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr M £300.00 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman