DRN-3804443
The complaint
Mr T complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) handled a claim under 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T bought a motor insurance policy from RSA covering his car. 
In September 2021, Mr T was involved in a motor accident in which a third party caused 
damage to his car, rendering it undriveable.
Mr T rang RSA who told him it would recover him and his car within about an hour. In the 
end he had to chase up RSA and he waited for a total of four hours for recovery.
His car was taken to RSAs repairer, who Ill refer to as M. M initially investigated the 
damage to Mr Ts car and discussed it with RSAs internal engineers. 
The car had been damaged to the extent that M and RSA were deciding whether to repair it, 
or write it off due to the cost of repairs. Mr T wasnt kept up to date with the decisions being 
made. He says this made him very anxious because he was aware that his car had suffered 
significant damage he thought was structural.
While his car was being repaired, Mr T was provided with a hire car, which was a small 
hatchback. Mr T wasnt able to transport his dog in this hire car because the rental company 
wouldnt allow it. So Mr T had to make arrangements for his dog to be cared for elsewhere. 
He was also worried about damage to the hire car, because RSA hadnt explained to him 
that the hire car would be covered under his existing motor policy, so it was only subject to 
his existing policy excess.
Ultimately, the car was repaired. When it was returned, it had an incorrectly fitted tyre, which 
needed rectification. Mr T was so unhappy with the process hed been through that he sold 
the car because he didnt feel he could trust it.
Mr T wasnt happy about the lack of contact by RSA and M and he complained. RSA didnt 
respond to Mr T within eight weeks, and he brought his complaint to this service.
RSA then responded to Mr T. It apologised for its service and upheld Mr Ts complaint in 
part. It said it would pay Mr T a total of £175, made up of £75 for the delay in recovering him, 
£75 for the lack of updates from it and M, and £25 because the hire car excess wasnt 
explained fully to him.
Mr T is unhappy because of the lack of updates hes had from RSA. He says he has suffered 
stress and anxiety from RSAs claims process. He said he had so little confidence with M 
that he asked RSA to change the repairer, but RSA said it didnt have a record of this 
request.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint and upheld it. She said she thought RSA 
hadnt acted fairly and reasonably and should pay Mr T an additional £75 for his distress and 
inconvenience. 
RSA didnt respond to the view. So Mr Ts complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
Mr Ts complaint covers several areas so in order to better deal with it Ive broken it down for 
ease of reading. 
Initial recovery
I can see that RSA has already paid Mr T £75 for the delayed recovery. This is in line with 
what this service would recommend, and I think its appropriate.
Hire Car
I understand that Mr T used his car to transport his dog, and he was told by the hire car 
company that this wasnt possible in the hire car. I can see RSA have told Mr T this is 
because of potential allergies for future hirers of the car. I can appreciate that Mr T would 
have found this particularly inconvenient, especially over the length of time RSA and M were 
repairing his car. But I dont think its unreasonable of RSA and the car hire company to have 
a policy like this.
Its also my understanding that Mr T was particularly worried about damage being caused to 
the hire car while he had custody of it. RSA was providing cover for the hire car, as it was 
provided by it as part of the claim, but I think its likely Mr T wasnt fully aware of this fact, 
and that his standard policy excess would apply to damage caused to the hire car. On 
balance, I dont think Mr T should have been overly worried about potentially damaging the 
hire car over any damage that might have happened similarly to his own car. But I think RSA 
and the hire company should have explained it better to him. RSA has paid £25 for this, and 
I think thats reasonable. 
Mr T has also said the hire car wasnt appropriate for his needs. We have asked RSA for a 
copy of his policy wording, but this hasnt been received to date. Ive looked online for the 
wording, and its my understanding that the cover provided by RSA is for a small hatchback 
type vehicle which is a common approach in motor insurance. I can see from Mr Ts policy 
documents that its possible for him to have chosen an option to upgrade the courtesy car 
cover to a like-for-like vehicle, but he didnt take this option. 
I dont think RSA have acted unfairly by providing him with a small hatchback, so Im not 
going to ask it to do more.
Claims service
About a week after the accident, I can see that Mr T contacted RSA about his car. He was 
asking whether it was likely to be written-off or repairable. He chased RSA several times 
over the next ten days. During this period, he says he was told by M that his car was a write-
off. 
RSAs evidence during this time shows it had accepted the car was to be repaired, but it 
wanted further strip-down inspections to be carried out. M hadnt heard from RSA about this.Mr T didnt receive calls back from RSA or M when he asked for updates. This went on until 
the start of November when Mr T raised another complaint with RSA. Mr T says he chased 
up both companies about 20 times and rarely got any communication back.
I can see from the file that the car hadnt been stripped down as at 2 November despite it 
being authorised around 9 October. This is despite Mr T chasing RSA at least seven times at 
this point. The poor communications continued until the repairs were complete and Mr T 
received his car back on 22 November. When it was returned, hed asked for the original 
tyres to be replaced back onto the vehicle, but one of the tyres was incorrect which then 
needed further rectification. 
Mr T says that because the communications were poor and inconsistent, he questioned 
whether he could trust M to carry out the work. He says the incorrect tyre is evidence of this 
lack of trust.
Having reviewed the evidence, I think its fair to say that RSAs claims service was very poor. 
I can see that lack of action directly led to a delay of about four weeks. Mr T continued to 
chase during this time but seems to have been ignored by RSA.
I think Mr T has done all he can to try and move his claim forward and the responsibility for 
the delay and poor service is entirely the fault of RSA. Mr T has explained the impact on him. 
He says the delays and chasing have caused him significant anxiety and have left him with 
no confidence in M, RSA or the car. This left him feeling forced to sell the car in the end 
because he didnt trust the work that had been done.
In later correspondence, Mr T has told this service that he may now be pursued by the third-
party insurers for excessive hire car costs. This is apparently due to the length of time the 
hire car was being hired for. This did not form part of Mr Ts approach to this service, so Im 
not able to consider it here, but I think I have made it clear where the responsibility for the 
delay sits. If he wishes, Mr T can make another complaint to RSA about this matter.
Overall, I agree with Mr T that RSAs claims service has been very poor throughout. It 
offered £75 compensation for this, but I dont think thats enough given RSAs lack of 
response throughout Mr Ts claim.
Taking everything into account, I think RSA should pay Mr T a total of £400 compensation 
for the poor recovery service, lack of explanation of his hire car excess and the poor claims 
service during his claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr T agreed with my provisional decision but RSA didnt respond to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr T agreed with my provisional decision and RSA didnt respond, my final decision and 
reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Royal & Sun Alliance plc to pay Mr T 
a total of £400 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. I understand RSA has already paid £175, so this amount can be deducted.
Royal & Sun Alliance plc must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr T accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman