DRN-3696184
The complaint
Mr P complains that Sainsburys Bank PLC has mishandled his claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for reimbursement of a three-piece suite which he says 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mr P has been assisted in bringing this complaint by his wife, but for ease of reference I 
will only refer to Mr P as it was his credit card that was used to purchase the items of 
furniture.
What happened
In December 2020 Mr P and his wife visited a store and decided to order a three-piece 
suite which comprised of two wingback chairs and a sofa. The retailer says that Mr P and 
his wife spent some time in the showroom trying the furniture before deciding to purchase 
this set.
Mr P paid £2,068 as a deposit on his credit card that he held via Sainsburys. And in 
February 2021 shortly before the items were delivered Mr P paid the remaining balance 
of £2,000 due on the furniture.
Five days after taking delivery Mr P contacted the retailer and complained that the seat 
cushions on the two wingback chairs had started to sag. There followed an email 
exchange between Mr P and the retailer during which Mr P said the Velcro between the 
seat and the chair didnt appear to line up, so the cushions werent being held in place 
correctly. And that the seats were unsupportive and uncomfortable to sit on. Mr P 
supplied photos of the seat cushions to the retailer to show the problem.
The retailer says they sent the photos to the manufacturer who said that the foam in the 
cushion seats would collapse around 20% and that the material used for the seat 
covers would stretch. It was suggested that the cushion covers should be unzipped, 
and the pads removed and reinserted to resolve the issue. However, Mr P reported 
back that this hadnt resolved the problem.
The retailer attended Mr Ps home to inspect the chairs, they said there wasnt any fault 
with the seat cushions but offered to swap them with others they had on the shopfloor. 
This was agreed, but Mr P contacted the retailer only a short-time later and said that the 
new seat cushions had sagged in the same way after only being in use for two hours. Mr 
P asked to reject the chairs and sofa.
The retailer disputed there was any fault with the seat cushions and declined Mr Ps 
request to return the two chairs and sofa and receive a refund. The retailer says they 
offered to provide two new seat pads made from firmer foam, however Mr P disputes this 
offer was made.
Mr P made a claim to Sainsburys for the cost of the three-piece suite. Sainsburys first 
raised a chargeback claim but this was defended by the retailer and declined. So, 
Sainsburys next raised a claim for reimbursement of the cost of the furniture under 
section 75.
Following the investigation into the claim, Sainsburys offered to pay for replacement 
foam for the two seat cushions if Mr P provided the quotes. But it declined to reimburse 
the full cost of the three-piece suite.
Mr P complained to Sainsburys about its decision. Sainsburys didnt uphold his 
complaint. It said the section 75 team hadnt made an error and the remedy offered was 
proportionate and remained open to Mr P. It said that the evidence only showed Mr Ps 
complaint was about the seat cushions for the two chairs and not with any other parts of 
the furniture.
Mr P was unhappy at Sainsburys decision and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr P had 
supplied sufficient evidence to show there was a fault with the two seat cushions and that 
she didnt think the chairs had been of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. She said 
Mr P had also asked to reject the chairs and sofa within the first 30 days of delivery of the 
furniture so had sought to use his short-term right to reject.
Our investigator said that as the two chairs were part of a set together with the sofa, Mr 
P had the right to reject the whole suite. She said Sainsburys should arrange to collect 
the furniture and reimburse Mr P the full cost.
Sainsburys disagreed with our investigators view. It said there wasnt evidence that the 
seat cushions were faulty, but rather it was likely the sagging was a characteristic of the 
chairs. It said it was likely these were a more relaxed type of armchair as opposed to ones 
with a firm seat.
Sainsburys also said it thought the motivations of Mr P in returning the chairs may not be 
linked to the cushions since he had declined its offer to have these replaced. It queried 
whether Mr P had changed his mind about the furniture. It said that it thought as Mr P had 
complained the second set of cushions had sagged very quickly after sitting on them, and 
that these were the ones he would have tried in the showroom before ordering the chairs, 
that he should have been aware of the style of seating provided by the chairs.
Sainsburys said it was impossible to say from the photos that the seat cushions had an 
unreasonable sag without an independent report setting out the fault. It said that its offer 
to change the cushion pads wasnt an admission they were faulty but an attempt to 
resolve the dispute.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued 
a provisional decision along the following lines.
My role here was to decide whether Sainsburys had acted fairly and reasonably in its 
response to Mr Ps claim under section 75.
Mr P said that the foam cushion seats for both of the wingback chairs was defective and 
that the chairs were uncomfortable and unsupportive. He said both the chairs and the sofa 
have been protectively wrapped up and stored away as he didnt want to continue to use 
them and for the sagging to get worse. Mr P also said he wasnt advised that the seating 
material could stretch.
Id seen that Sainsburys had first made a claim for the furniture under the chargeback 
scheme. Chargeback is a process that involves the card issuer disputing payments 
made on the card through a dispute resolution scheme operated by the companies which run the card networks. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed 
if there's a problem with the goods or services they've paid for. There's no automatic 
right to a chargeback and it isnt a guaranteed method of getting a refund.
A retailer has the right to defend a chargeback request which was what happened here. 
The retailer had said that the seat cushions werent faulty and had been identical to those 
hed taken from the showroom and swapped with those on Mr Ps chairs. He said he had 
put Mr Ps original seat cushions on the chairs in the showroom and hadnt had any 
complaints from customers who had tested the chairs. He said it was the style of the 
cushion and this had been confirmed by the manufacturer. So, I thought Sainsburys had 
acted fairly in seeking a chargeback even though this was then unsuccessful.
Sainsburys then opened a claim under section 75 for Mr P. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 may apply when the goods or services purchased via credit, cost over 
£100 and up to a limit of £30,000. The general effect of the section is that if a consumer 
has paid for goods or services with credit, and they have a claim against the supplier of 
those goods or services for misrepresentation or breach of contract, they are given a like 
claim against the credit provider, which here is Sainsburys.
Mr P said there had been a breach of contract because the seat cushions for the chair 
were unreasonably sagging and uncomfortable after only minimal use. As this was Mr 
Ps claim then it was for him to provide sufficient evidence to support his claim that the 
chairs had a fault and that the fault meant they werent of satisfactory quality. Mr P had 
provided some photos of the seat cushions in place, but I hadnt seen any evidence 
about the Velcro not matching up. So, I couldnt reasonably say the seat cushions were 
slipping out of place.
I appreciated this would be of disappointment to Mr P, but I didnt think the photos were 
sufficient to say the cushion seats were faulty. I appreciated they showed some sagging, 
however I didnt know the circumstances in which they had been taken, such as were 
the photos showing cushions after they had been plumped up or after someone had sat 
on them.
Looking at all the evidence that had been provided, I was persuaded that the way the 
cushions had sagged after use was more likely than not to be a characteristic of the 
chair. I said this because of a number of factors; firstly in my objective opinion (though I 
am not an furniture expert) I didnt think the photos showed an unreasonably amount of 
sagging; I was unclear about when the photos were taken (see above); Id seen that the 
manufacturer, having viewed the photos denied there was a fault; both chairs had 
sagged in a very similar way and the replacement cushions were reported to have also 
done the same thing.
I appreciated that Mr P said the replacement seat cushions sagged after only one 
hour unlike the original ones which had taken days, but the retailer had said that the 
replacement ones had actually come from the showroom and had been sat on by 
various customers. Looking at the time interval in which the cushions had been 
replaced by the retailer I thought it was likely they were ones he had to hand and so 
were from the showroom as he had said. So, I thought it was fair to say they 
werent the same as the brand-new ones Mr P had when the chairs were first 
delivered and so would have shown the characteristic sagging sooner.
There wasnt an independent experts report on the chairs seating cushions, and I 
could appreciate why Mr P had been reluctant to arrange this. I also thought that an 
inspection would be difficult now with the chairs being stored. However, I was satisfied 
on the evidence Id seen that the cushion seats werent faulty and were of satisfactory quality. I thought it was more likely than not that Mr P didnt find this style of seating 
comfortable. But I couldnt fairly say that the softening/sagging of the foam in the 
cushion pads was unreasonable or showed the chairs hadnt been fit for purpose.
As I didnt think there was sufficient evidence to show there had been a breach of 
contract, I thought Sainsburys had acted fairly in offering to replace the foam in the 
two seat cushions and not providing a full refund to Mr P.
I understood this would be disappointing to Mr P, but I didnt intend to uphold 
his complaint nor ask Sainsburys to do more than it had offered.
Sainsburys has agreed with my provisional decision. Mr P said that his 
complaint wasnt about the look of the furniture. He said he and his wife had 
chosen the furniture because it complimented their home. Mr P says that the 
retailer didnt offer to replace the cushions with firmer ones as if they had he 
would have accepted that offer.
Mr P says he complained because he thought he had the right to request a 
refund after 28 days if not fully satisfied with his purchase due to the poor 
quality of the product. He said sitting on the chairs in the showroom wasnt 
sufficient to determine the quality of the seats.
Mr P says that if I dont change my view, he wishes to accept Sainsburys offer 
to change the cushions at its cost. He says he never actually declined this 
offer. He also asks to be reimbursed the £50 he spent to get an independent 
quote as to the costs of replacing them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked again at the evidence and the conclusions I reached, and I havent changed 
my view. I appreciate Mr P had liked the look of the furniture in the showroom, but that it was 
the characteristic of the seating cushions to soften and sag after use that he didnt like. 
However, as set out above, I cant reasonably say this sagging and softening was a fault 
with the seating or that it had been unreasonable meaning the chairs werent fit for purpose. 
I appreciate Mr P may not have noticed the seats becoming softer when he tried the chairs 
in the showroom, but for Mr P to return the chairs there needs to be evidence that they were 
of poor quality and faulty. And I cant reasonably say that the evidence supports that the 
chairs were of unsatisfactory quality, rather that the cushions werent as firm as Mr P wished.
Mr P has asked for the £50 he spent obtaining a quote as to the cost of replacing the 
cushions to be reimbursed. Ive seen that Sainsburys had agreed to that at the time it asked 
Mr P to arrange this quote and it has confirmed this is still available should Mr P wish to 
receive it.
Mr P also says that he now wishes to accept the offer made by Sainsburys to change the 
foam in the cushions. He will need to liaise with Sainsburys for that to be arranged.
So, for the reasons set out above and although Im sorry I have disappointed Mr P with my 
view, Im not upholding his complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman