DRN-3376271
The complaint
Miss H complains that Santander UK Plc approved a payment holiday and a rate switch on a 
joint mortgage without her consent. 
What happened
Miss H has a joint mortgage with Santander which has been in place since 2007. Miss H has 
told us that in 2016 she made Santander aware of a marital dispute between both account 
holders, but the joint borrower managed to apply for a coronavirus payment holiday from 
May to July 2020 and then again from September to November 2020  without her consent. 
Miss H said that the joint borrower also managed to apply for a product transfer which took 
place in March 2021. She said that having seen the product transfer form, it had pp next to 
her signature which indicates that it was signed for on her behalf. She complained to 
Santander who reversed the product transfer, but she also had concerns that the same thing 
had happened in 2016  which was again reversed. 
Miss H has said that since the mortgage has transferred back to the variable rate, the joint 
party has stopped paying the mortgage and its now in arrears. She said she doesnt want to 
be tied to the other party anymore due to an abusive relationship and she now lives in 
another house with her daughter which she is paying for  so she cannot afford to maintain 
both properties. Miss H said she is in financial difficulties and shes now concerned that this 
is having an impact on her credit file. 
Miss H has explained she would like Santander to start repossession proceedings because 
she doesnt want to be tied to the other party and that this is all causing her a great deal of 
stress and anxiety and is now taking medication to help with this. 
Santander apologised for what had happened with regards to the recent product transfer and 
offered to pay Miss H £150 for the inconvenience caused. But they didnt think that they had 
done anything wrong by agreeing a payment holiday. They said they were required to act 
quickly in response to the pandemic by offering support to those customers who were 
financially affected. Santander also explained that repossession would be a last resort and 
that this is very costly and would put Miss H and the other party in possibly a worse position. 
Miss H disagreed with what Santander had said so she brought the complaint to our service 
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think that 
Santander had acted fairly. He thought that Santander had failed to speak to Miss H about 
the payment holiday and the product transfer when Santander had a marker on the 
mortgage account which detailed a marital dispute. Our investigator thought that Santander 
should pay Miss H a further £150 for the trouble and upset she had been caused, bringing 
the total compensation to £300.
Miss H didnt agree. In summary, she made the following comments:
Santander should have contacted both parties regarding the payment holiday and 
isnt sure what they checked
Fraud was committed by the other account holder and she doesnt agree that 
Santander were right to apply the payment holiday because of the pandemic
The split marker should have been on the mortgage account since 2016
The mortgage account only went into arrears after the product transfer was reversed 
in 2021 and Santander should never have done this in the first place as its 
encouraged the other party to stop paying the mortgage. She said they should also 
know what pp means
She now has markers on her credit file and would like the property to be repossessed
This situation has caused her a great deal of stress and anxiety and she is now on 
medication so doesnt agree with the level of compensation offered
As Miss H remained unhappy, she asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to first clarify that this complaint is in Miss Hs sole name however the mortgage in 
question is in joint names. This complaint is about Santander so in this decision, I will only 
be commenting on Santanders actions and not the actions of the other borrower who is not 
party to this complaint. 
Payment deferral 
When the coronavirus pandemic first hit and there was a nationwide lockdown, many people 
were financially affected. There were various measures that the government put in place as 
well as others across the industries. The regulator of financial services, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), told lenders that they should grant payment deferrals to borrowers 
whose finances had been affected by covid-19 and would struggle as a result to make their 
mortgage payments. 
Those missed payments would be deferred, not written off, and extra interest would be 
payable because the balance of the mortgage would be higher as a result  but the deferrals 
would give borrowers some short term breathing space to find a longer term solution. During 
a period of deferral, no payments would be required. But because payments werent being 
made, the balance is higher than it otherwise would have been so more interest is charged. 
The deferred payments and the additional interest will have to be paid back at some point 
during the life of the mortgage. Deferred payments would not be treated as arrears or 
reported to credit agencies as arrears due to the fact that payments are not expected on the 
mortgage. 
Because of the anticipated volume of requests, it wasnt possible for lenders to make 
detailed enquiries of all those who applied for a payment deferral. The volume of requests 
came at a time when lenders themselves were impacted by the pandemic and having to find 
ways to work remotely as well as all the operational challenges that came with that change. 
So as a result of this, the regulator said that lenders could grant a payment deferral where 
the borrower said they had been impacted, without the need for further checks. In this case, 
the mortgage was being paid for by the other borrower and the other borrower contacted 
Santander for a payment deferral which was accepted. Santander granted this request 
without checking to see if Miss H agreed to it. Given the circumstances at the time, I think it 
was reasonable that this application for a deferral was agreed the way it was  without 
further checks being made. 
I do however understand why Miss H is unhappy about that. A change was made to the 
mortgage without her agreement. And she has told us that Santander should have had a 
marker on the mortgage account since 2016 explaining that there was a marital dispute so 
this payment deferral should never have been approved without her consent. Having looked 
at the contact notes that Santander have provided, I can see that they were aware of the marital dispute between Miss H and the other party. So I think there should have been a 
marker on the mortgage account to reflect this. It appears that Santander were aware of the 
dispute and if there was a marker on the mortgage, in this particular case, they should have 
checked to see if Miss H consented to the payment deferral. 
But as Ive explained, due to the situation that the country was in as a result of the 
pandemic, I can also understand why Santander may not have checked to see if there was 
any reason why a payment deferral shouldnt be granted  because of what they were told 
by the regulator 
As Santander have explained, this is a joint mortgage and Miss H is jointly and severally 
liable to make payments just as the other borrower was. There was nothing that would have 
prevented Miss H making those payments herself, if she was concerned about the other 
borrower missing them. I do understand that Miss H is now living in another property which 
she has said she is paying for and is in financial difficulties  so cannot afford both. I do 
empathise with her situation, but this mortgage is still joint.
Miss H has said that the break in repayments for six months would have been added to the 
overall amount with interest being added which she is now equally liable for. Had the 
payment deferral been refused or removed, and neither Miss H or the other borrower made 
payments to the mortgage, then the same amount of additional interest would have been 
incurred and added to the mortgage. The financial position would have been the same 
because the payments would still not have been made.
Santander were approached by the other borrower because he wasnt willing or able to 
make the payments to the mortgage. Had Santander refused or revoked the payment 
deferral, the mortgage would have been in a worse position as any missed payments would 
have been classed as arrears  which would also have impacted both Miss H and the other 
borrowers credit file. 
I think in this situation, Santander were aware of a marital dispute so I think they could have 
done more to check if they should have granted a payment deferral in this situation and 
contacted Miss H to obtain her consent. But overall, I dont think they were unreasonable in 
applying it, for the reasons Ive already mentioned. 
Product transfer
I can see from the contact notes provided that the joint borrower applied for a product 
transfer in 2016 and after Miss H contacted Santander to explain there was a marital 
dispute, Santander reversed this and updated the correspondence address for Miss H.  The 
notes confirm from this point that there was a marital dispute between both parties. 
In 2021, the joint borrower again applied for a product transfer which Santander agreed. 
However, the mortgage offer was only sent to the mortgaged property  that of the joint 
borrower, Once the product transfer was agreed, Santander wrote to Miss H to confirm that it 
had been in place from March 2020. 
Miss H has said the signatures on the product transfer form were the same for both parties, 
and having seen it, I can confirm they were. And that the joint borrower added a pp next to 
her name to confirm he was signing on her behalf. I completely understand why Miss H was 
unhappy about this because she didnt sign the offer document. 
Santander should have noticed this as its clear both signatures are the same and I do agree 
with Miss H that they should know what pp means. Santander shouldnt have agreed to the 
transfer, especially as there are notes on file to show that there was a marital dispute. 
However, once Miss H contacted them, this was reversed which is what we would have 
expected Santander to do.
Arrears and repossession Miss H has raised concerns that the mortgage is now in arrears due to the joint borrower not 
paying the mortgage since the error with the product transfer. She believes that this has 
encouraged the joint borrower to stop paying the mortgage. It appears that the arrears 
started to accrue from April 2021.
Ive seen letters sent to Miss H from Santander letting her know that the mortgage is in 
arrears and that payments need to be made. Santander have both her address and the other 
joint borrowers address on file and in this situation, we would expect Santander to write to 
both parties. I appreciate that Miss H feels that she is the only one being chased to bring the 
account up to date, but this normally wouldnt be the case. As Ive already mentioned, she is 
jointly and severally liable for the mortgage even though she doesnt live in the property.  
I do appreciate she doesnt want to be financially tied to the other party and would like the 
property to be repossessed, but its not that straight forward. Repossession would be a last 
resort due to the significant legal costs that are involved  which are passed back to the 
borrowers. 
Miss H asked Santander to take possession of the property in May 2021, but Santander 
explained their stance on this  that it would always be a last resort. And I dont think it was 
unreasonable of Santander to say this because the mortgage had only been in arrears since 
April 2021. I can see there was some discussion about Miss H being able to voluntarily 
surrender the property, but this can only be accepted by Santander when both parties agree 
 Im afraid that Miss H cannot do this without the other party. 
Santander has since confirmed they are considering litigation as the mortgage account is still 
in arrears and as Ive already mentioned, this will add costs to the mortgage which both 
borrowers will be liable for.  If Santander does go down this route, it should be a last resort 
and I would expect them to treat both borrowers fairly and keep them both updated with the 
situation.
I do think that Santander could have dealt with things better surrounding the payment 
deferral and the product switch, so I do think that £300 offered is fair and reasonable. I do 
understand that Miss H would like more in terms of compensation because of the stress this 
has put her under, but I think under the circumstances, this is fair. I say that because 
although I believe Santander could have done more checks before agreeing to the payment 
holiday, they were not unreasonable in agreeing it because of the guidance they were 
following which was set by the regulator. And the product transfer should never have been 
accepted, but Santander did reverse this when they were told about it  so there was no 
change to the mortgage.
I understand that Miss H feels that Santander have encouraged the other borrower to stop 
paying the mortgage, but I dont agree with this. There is nothing to confirm that the other 
borrower would or wouldnt have continued to pay the mortgage and like Ive said, Im not 
going to comment on the actions that they may or may not have taken as they are not party 
to this complaint. I know Miss H has concerns about all of this affecting her credit file, but as 
the mortgage is in arrears and she is jointly responsible for this, Santander have not done 
anything wrong in reporting this to the credit reference agencies. So while I understand this 
is causing her a great deal of stress, Im satisfied that the actions that Santander have taken 
with regard to this, are acceptable. 
I appreciate that Miss H will be disappointed with my decision, but I wont be asking 
Santander to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I direct Santander UK Plc to pay Miss H £300 for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman