DRN-2924369
The complaint
Mr D complains that Capital One (Europe) plc is holding him liable for cash machine 
withdrawals which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Mr D is represented by Ms R in this complaint.  For simplicity, Ive referred to the 
representatives actions and submissions as being those of Mr D.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide a brief summary of events below.
On 8 January 2021, Mr D says upon considering one of his credit card statements, he saw 
some transactions he didnt recognise.  This prompted him to make a balance enquiry at a 
cash machine and then call Capital One  with his friend acting as representative and 
translator.  During the course of that call, Mr D was told about several cash machine 
withdrawals made using his credit card.  These were made on separate occasions from 24 
December to 1 January 2020, totalling £2,250.  Mr D denied authorising these transactions.  
Capital One initially refunded this amount to Mr Ds account.  But, following its investigation, 
it re-debited it.  Mr D later raised a complaint about this with Capital One.
Capital One has confirmed it automatically issued Mr D a new credit card on 3 December 
2020, as his previous one was due to expire in January 2021.  The new card was activated 
on 24 December 2020, and then used to make the withdrawals concerned.  The personal 
identification number (PIN) for the new card was not changed, so remained the same as Mr 
Ds previous card.
Capital One says Mr D informed it that he hadnt received this new card, so consequently 
couldnt have activated it.  He also told it that he lives in shared accommodation; whereby 
the post of the people living in the house is placed on a communal table.  In relation to his 
PIN, Mr D told Capital One that he had it memorised and didnt share it with anyone.
Capital One concluded that it was unable to accept Mr Ds fraud claim.  It said Mr Ds card 
and PIN were used to make the withdrawals; and that it didnt accept his PIN couldve been 
guessed by a third party.  It also said that there was no known compromise of Mr Ds PIN.  
Capital One added that it wasnt persuaded the spending on Mr Ds account was indicative 
of fraudulent activity.  For these reasons, Capital One held Mr D liable for the withdrawals.
Unhappy with this response, Mr D referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it.  She thought it was 
possible that a third party couldve intercepted Mr Ds new card and activated it.  However, 
she wasnt persuaded Mr Ds PIN was compromised, so she didnt think Capital One had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by holding him liable.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators findings.  In summary, he maintained that he had 
never received or activated the card that was sent to him.  He added that he never received 
any communication about his old card expiring and the fact a new one would be sent to him.  
He also argued that his PIN not being compromised isnt sufficient proof to hold him liable for 
the withdrawals.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
The relevant regulations in this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 2017 
Regulations).  In short, they state that a payment service provider (in this case, Capital One) 
is generally required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  However, Capital 
One can hold Mr D liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that he made or otherwise authorised them.
Im satisfied from the technical evidence Capital One has provided that Mr Ds genuine card 
was used and that the corresponding PIN was entered correctly for each of the withdrawals 
concerned.  
Based on the information Capital One has provided, I can see it sent Mr D a new card on 3 
December 2020, which was activated in the same month on the 24th.  Mr D says he never 
received this card.  He has explained that he lives in shared accommodation and that post 
for the residents is placed on a communal table.  Having thought about this, I acknowledge 
that its entirely plausible that a third party couldve intercepted Mr Ds new card when it was 
delivered to his house.
Capital One says its automated service was used to activate the card.  I dont know what 
specific questions were asked during this process.  However, during one of Mr Ds calls with 
Capital One, its adviser mentioned that the questions included Mr Ds date of birth and 
postcode.  With that mind, I also acknowledge that its plausible a third party couldve known 
this information  particularly given Mr Ds living arrangements.
However, the difficulty I have is that even if I could conclude that a third party intercepted 
and activated Mr Ds card, this doesnt explain how the third party wouldve known Mr Ds 
PIN to be able to make the withdrawals.  The PIN for the new card was not changed, so it 
remained the same as the one for Mr Ds previous card.  
During the calls between Mr D and Capital One, he said he had memorised his PIN and 
didnt share it with a third party.  This is something he repeated to our investigator; adding 
that his PIN was not something which couldve been guessed, such as 1234 or his date of 
birth.  Mr D has been unable to provide an explanation as to how his PIN couldve been 
compromised  something which our investigator probed him about.
I note Mr D says Capital One didnt send him any communication about his previous card 
expiring and that a new one would be sent out to him.  Whilst this may indeed be the case, it 
has no bearing on my findings, as Im satisfied Capital One sent the new card to Mr D on 3 
December 2020.I acknowledge Mr D strongly denies having received the card and making the withdrawals.  
However, taking all the above factors together, I consider its more likely than not that Mr D 
authorised the withdrawals.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman