DRN-3140530
The complaint
Mr B complains that interest and charges were unfairly applied to his account by Lloyds
Bank PLC and that it failed to offer assistance to help clear a longstanding overdraft balance.
Mr B also complains that he was unaware his account was due to close and default because
Lloyds didnt update his address.  
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr B has told us he had a £5,000 overdraft with Lloyds going back to the 1990s. Mr B says 
for many years he made payments to cover interest and charges applied by Lloyds but was 
never offered an alternative account or assistance to repay the total outstanding balance. 
Mr B has also explained that his account was sometimes referred to Lloyds collections 
teams when he exceeded the overdraft limit.
Towards the end of 2020 Lloyds wrote to Mr B to advise it intended to close the account 
and apply a default to his credit file. But Mr B has told us he moved so didnt receive notice 
from Lloyds. In January 2020 Mr B complained after he found the default on his credit file.
Lloyds responded to Mr Bs complaint but didnt agree it had applied interest and charges 
unfairly. Lloyds also said it had sent Mr B the formal demand at the address it had on 
record for him at the time. Lloyds said Mr B updated his address around a month after it 
wrote to him.
Mr B referred his compliant to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
upheld Mr Bs complaint and asked Lloyds to refund interest and charges to Mr Bs account 
to April 2015. Mr B responded to say that he had updated Lloyds with his new address prior 
to the formal demand it sent. Lloyds didnt accept the investigators recommendation, so Mr 
Bs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different decision to the investigator concerning how to fairly resolve Mr Bs 
complaint. The investigator asked Lloyds to apply a refund up to April 2015, but I think 
Lloyds should refund interest and charges going back to April 2014 instead.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having considered the available evidence, I think Lloyds acted unfairly when it continued 
to apply interest and charges to Mr Bs overdraft limit from April 2014, when it reviewed 
his overdraft limit. I think it ought to have been clear to Lloyds that there was no likely 
prospect of Mr B being able to repay £5,000 sustainably and in a reasonable amount of 
time.
Ive looked at Mr Bs statements going back to January 2014 and his account balance 
never went into credit. Further Mr B clearly wasnt using this account for day to day 
spending and, in the vast majority of cases, only made repayments to service the debt. 
There was no meaningful long term reduction in Mr Bs borrowing during the period in 
question.
Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds should have stopped 
providing the overdraft to Mr B on the same terms in April 2014. I think Lloyds shouldve 
stopped applying fees and charges and instead treated Mr B with forbearance. Im 
satisfied Lloyds shouldve realised Mr B wasnt using his overdraft as intended and was 
having difficulties making meaningful repayments. I note Lloyds carried out an overdraft 
review in April 2014 and Im satisfied there was sufficient information available to highlight 
Mr Bs position to Lloyds.
As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Bs account history and overdraft use and continued to charge 
him in the same way, I havent been persuaded it treated him fairly or reasonably. As a 
result, Mr B has paid additional interest, fees and charges on his overdrawn balance 
which has made clearing it harder. I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds to 
settle in line with the guidance set out at the end of this document.
Mr B told our investigator that despite updating Lloyds with his new address he didnt 
receive the formal demand. But Lloyds has sent us systems information that shows Mr B 
updated his address on 20 November 2020, around a month after it issued the formal 
demand. In his complaint form, Mr B explained that he had moved to temporary 
accommodation on 12 October 2020 and then to his current address on 15 November 
2020. Whilst I can see Mr B did give Lloyds details of his new permanent address in 
November 2020, Im satisfied it wasnt aware he had moved until that point. As a result, I 
havent found Lloyds made an error when sending out the formal demand.
The above being said, as I think Lloyds missed opportunities to provide assistance to Mr 
B going back to April 2014, I also think its appropriate to tell it to back date any adverse 
information it has recorded on his credit file to that point. And information ceases to be 
reported on a consumers credit file after six years.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted me to consider 
before making my final decision. We didnt hear back from Mr B. 
Lloyds responded but didnt accept. Lloyds said there is no evidence to show Mr B was in 
financial difficulties and that he appeared happy with the outstanding balance. Lloyds also 
said Mr B repaid the outstanding balance after the account was closed which indicated he 
had funds available at short notice. 
Lloyds also said time limits in our rules mean we cant look back to events that occurred in 
January 2014. Finally, Lloyds said it wouldnt be fair to apply 8% interest to any refunds it 
makes because Mr B wasnt deprived of funds at any point. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed what Lloyds has said but havent been persuaded to change my view of how to 
fairly resolve this complaint. Our rules allow us to look back six years from the point Mr B 
complained. Mr B has told us he initially complained to Lloyds in January 2020, although I 
can see Lloyds says it was March 2020. Regardless, I think the important date here is April 
2014  when Lloyds completed an account review. 
I say this because I still think Lloyds shouldve seen at that point that the borrowing was 
unsuitable for Mr B. Im satisfied that April 2014 is the fairest point from which to tell Lloyds 
to refund all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Bs account. 
Lloyds also says Mr B cleared the overdraft quickly after it was closed and defaulted which 
shows he had funds available. But the events in this case go back to 2014 and I still think 
Lloyds shouldve done more to help Mr B at an earlier point as set out in my provisional 
decision.  
Lloyds says Mr B has never been deprived of funds because of the interest, fees and 
charges it applied to his account. But, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I 
think the interest, fees and charges applied from April 2014 were unfair. So, I think Mr B was 
unfairly deprived of the funds he used to cover those costs. 
I still think the settlement I set out in my provisional decision is the fairest way to resolve Mr 
Bs complaint so Im going to proceed on that basis. 
  
Putting things right
Lloyds should resolve Mr Bs complaint by: 
- Reworking Mr Bs current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the renewal in April 2014 are removed  
And
- If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made, Lloyds should contact Mr B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
If it considered it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Bs credit file, it 
should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking 
corrective action on the overdraft in April 2014
Or
- If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to [consumer] along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the 
date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding 
balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds should remove 
any adverse information from Mr Bs credit file
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to settle in line 
with the above guidance.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman