DRN-3921399
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Metro Bank PLC allowed someone to take the contents of her safety 
deposit box without proper authorisation. Shed like Metro to reimburse her for the value of 
the contents.
What happened
Mrs K held a safety deposit box with Metro. In October 2021 Mrs Ks sister came into branch 
pretending to be Mrs K, saying she had lost her key. The lock on the box was drilled and 
some of the contents  which Mrs K says consisted of family jewellery  were taken.
In December 2021 Mrs K went to branch and discovered what had happened. The police 
were called. Mrs Ks sister was arrested, but the police didnt take any further action.
Mrs K complained to Metro, asking for them to cover the value of the jewellery taken. Metro 
responded to say they had not followed the strict procedures for checking identification 
before allowing the lock to be drilled. They said they were shocked by what happened and 
were sorry for the distress caused. But they felt the recovery of the jewellery was a civil 
matter between Mrs K and her sister. They pointed to their terms that items in the safety 
deposit box should be insured separately. They declined to pay the value of the items but 
offered her £500 for the distress caused.
Unhappy with this answer Mrs K referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators asked her for valuations of the items which were contained in the safety deposit 
box. Mrs K provided some photographs of some of the jewellery being worn, as well as a 
hand-written receipt for one item. The investigator shared these with Metro, but they 
responded to say the valuations werent professional valuations, and there was no evidence 
the items themselves were contained in the safety deposit box.
The investigator felt the complaint should succeed in part  they said that they didnt think 
Mrs K had demonstrated the value of the items that were taken, so it wasnt fair to ask Metro 
to repay this. But they suggested Metro pay Mrs Ks legal fees so she can pursue her sister 
for the loss. Both parties disagreed. The investigator then revised their opinion and said that 
they couldnt quantify the exact loss to Mrs K, and they couldnt rely on the photos and 
receipts provided. But they could see the situation had been distressing and upsetting to Mrs 
K, and they felt the compensation should be increased to £1,000 to reflect this.
Again, both parties disagreed with the outcome. As no agreement could be reached the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that Metro have made a mistake in allowing Mrs Ks sister access to 
the safety deposit box  theyve accepted as much. So, the key question for me is what they 
should be doing to put things right for her.
Mrs K has asked for the value of the items that she says were taken. But in circumstances 
like this the onus is on her to demonstrate her loss. The difficulty here is that theres no clear 
record of what was in the box  there was no obligation for Mrs K to tell Metro what it 
contained. Metro have pointed to their terms, which say the contents should be insured. This 
would have been helpful in this case. But theres very little evidence of what was in the 
safety deposit box, much less the value of any items taken.
Mrs K has provided her own personal estimations on the value of the items that were lost, 
which I have considered carefully. But as these arent provided by a professional valuer and 
I cant be reasonably certain they were in the box I cant rely on these. Likewise, Ive 
considered the various photographs shes sent of the jewellery she says was taken  but 
these dont allow me to safely draw any conclusions about whether they were in the safety 
deposit box, or their value. There are receipts for items of jewellery, but these are 
handwritten and not from a professional valuer. Again, I dont think these can be safely relied 
upon.
I accept that Mrs K is in a very tricky situation and she has been let down by the way Metro 
handled her safety deposit box. I also accept that Metros actions have likely led to a loss to 
her. I appreciate this will be disappointing to her, but the evidence shes been able to provide 
isnt sufficient for me to say Metro should pay the claimed value of the items lost. I dont think 
shes been able to demonstrate these as losses.
However, Metro have accepted they made a mistake and offered £500 for the distress 
caused. But I think this falls short of what the impact on Mrs K this error caused. Its clear to 
me that the opening of the box without her permission has caused Mrs K significant distress 
and inconvenience  not least because of what she believes she has lost, and that she 
thought the items would be safe with her bank. With that in mind Im satisfied an amount of 
£1,000 would be an appropriate award.
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay £1,000 in total to Mrs K to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman