DRN-1823522
 
The complaint
Mr H says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H had four loans with MYJAR, as Ive summarised below.
Loan no. Amount Start date End date
1 £100 20/02/2015 28/02/2015
2 £500 02/03/2015 29/05/2015
3 £1,000 03/01/2016 03/02/2016
4 £500 02/05/2016 31/05/2016
An adjudicator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr H didnt 
agree and so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ive seen that before lending to Mr H, MYJAR asked him to provide some information about 
his income and expenditure. I wont set out the figures provided here, as they are known to 
both parties and were explained by the adjudicator. MYJAR also carried out credit checks 
and used all of this information to estimate how much it thought Mr H could afford to borrow, 
based on the required monthly repayments.
I think the approach MYJAR took to assessing the affordability of these loans was 
reasonable and proportionate. Taking into account the seven-month gap after loan 2, I dont 
think the pattern of borrowing suggested Mr H was in financial difficulty and wouldnt be able 
to repay the loans in a sustainable manner. Ive also taken into account the credit file and 
bank statements Mr H provided  but much of the information contained within these wasnt 
available to MYJAR. As I think MYJARs checks were proportionate, I dont think it needed to 
ask Mr H for additional information (such as bank statements) to support his applications.
I know Mr H says he had mental health difficulties and a gambling addiction when he applied 
for these loans  and Im sorry to hear that. But its not something I think MYJAR knew or 
ought to have known about.
So while I realise this will be disappointing for Mr H, I do not think his complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against MYJAR Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman