DRN-2521722
The complaint
Miss K complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) are unable to locate an account she opened with 
them in 2014. As a result, she is unable to access her savings deposited in that account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here in any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. However, 
in short terms Miss K believes she opened an account with TSB in her local branch on 13 
November 2014 with a cheque shed obtained from a Cardiff branch of the Cheltenham & 
Gloucester (C&G) a few days before.
TSB have been unable to find any evidence that Miss K opened the account as she claims, 
so they have not upheld her complaint. As Miss K was unhappy with TSBs final response 
she approached this service to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint but thought TSB hadnt done anything wrong and there 
was no evidence to show that Miss K had opened the account with them. As such she 
thought TSB had dealt with the complaint fairly.
Miss K didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus however on what I think the key issues are as our rules allow me to do this 
and it reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Miss K originally had an account with C&G, ending 9460. She held that account when 
previously living in Cardiff. She said that on 10 November 2014 she went to the Cardiff C&G 
branch and closed that account. She said she was given a cheque for the balance on the 
account and a cash sum to represent the interest earned on the account to the date of 
closing.
On 13 November 2014 she said she went into her local branch of TSB (not in Cardiff) and 
met with the manager. She gave the manager the C&G cheque and opened an account. He 
said the paperwork would follow in the post. Miss K says she never received anything.
Miss K has been unable to supply any documentary evidence to support her claim that she 
opened the account with TSB on 13 November 2014. 
TSB have looked into their records and has confirmed that the branch Miss K says she went 
into in Cardiff was in fact a TSB branch in 2014, not a C&G branch. That is significant 
because Miss K is certain she went into a C&G branch. Miss K has produced a letter dated 
September 2014 which is on TSB letterhead and bares account number ending 9460. This 
satisfies me that her account was most certainly taken over by TSB before she went into any 
branch in November 2014. 
TSB have also said that Miss Ks account ending 9460 was most likely transferred to them in 
September 2013 when it separated from Lloyds. That must be right.
TSB have also said that despite searching their records there is no evidence to support 
Miss Ks contention that she closed any account in the Cardiff TSB/C&G branch in 
November. And further, there is no evidence or information to show that a cheque was 
issued to Miss K from that Cardiff branch. 
TSB have however provided evidence in the form of customer notes to show that the 
account ending 9460 was in fact closed at her local branch on 13 November, not the branch 
in Cardiff. TSBs evidence shows that it was the local branch of the TSB who issued the 
cheque to Miss K and they have produced a cheque stub to confirm that. 
I think that all this evidence demonstrates that Miss Ks recollection of events is not as 
accurate as she believes it to be. However, which branch issued the cheque is a side issue, 
because what TSB do concede is that they issued a cheque to Miss K. So, the question 
which arises is what happened to that cheque, because Miss K is concerned as to where her 
money has gone.
Miss K says she opened an account with it at TSB, but she has no documentary evidence to 
support that.  TSB has said it has searched its records and can find no account in Miss Ks 
name. They have searched for stale cheques and unclaimed balances for the amount of the 
issued cheque and have not found it. It has further been unable to locate the amount of the 
cheque sitting on any of its banking accounts.
Whilst not direct evidence, TSB has said that if Miss K had wished to open an account with 
the TSB after closing her account ending 9460 then they would not have issued a cheque, 
rather they would have simply transferred the sums over. And Miss K says she never 
received any paperwork from TSB after opening the account which is highly unusual as TSB 
would have sent documentation to her to record that she had opened the account.
So, in considering this complaint, Ive taken account of both sides views and Ive looked at 
the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. Where evidence is not 
complete, I have given thought to what is more likely to have happened in the light of the 
evidence which is available. 
Here there is strong evidence produced by TSB that the cheque Miss K says was issued in 
Cardiff was in fact issued at her local branch. Further, that as the money which Miss K says 
is missing does not appear on any account, as a stale cheque or an unclaimed balance, and 
as TSB do not have an account in Miss Ks name, on a balance of probabilities the cheque 
probably has been cashed and paid into a different account. It seems to me more likely than 
not that Miss K is simply mistaken in her recollection of events as to the opening of the 
account with TSB.
I have considered the alternative proposition put forward by Miss K, that being that the local 
branch manager may have pocketed the money himself, but for that to occur it would mean 
the manager committing a very serious criminal offence, which given his position as a bank manager is very unlikely. I dont say it is impossible, but it is highly unlikely. More 
importantly, there is no evidence of him committing such a crime in any event. 
So, although I know Miss K will be disappointed with my decision, I cant say TSB has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here in rejecting Miss Ks complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman