DRN-2273378
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) wont refund disputed transactions 
made using his debit card, which he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. He is also 
unhappy Barclays have refused to raise chargebacks.
What happened
Mr M says that fraudulent disputed transactions totalling £13,663.85 were made from his 
Barclays account in September 2019. All the transactions were made without the presence 
of a physical card; they were online payments. 
Mr M says he did not make or otherwise authorise anyone to make the transactions. He says 
he never received any of the goods and is the victim of fraud. He asked Barclays to refund 
them; to find out and explain how this has been allowed to happen. 
Barclays investigated and decided not to refund Mr Ms disputed transactions. It thought 
there wasnt a plausible point of compromise for Mr Ms debit card details. And the 
transactions were made from an IP address which matched previous genuine payments and 
regular logins, it considered either Mr M made or authorised the disputed transactions. As 
part of its investigation Barclays also contacted some of the merchants  who provided it 
with records showing the purchases had a delivery address which corresponded to Mr Ms 
residential address. The merchants confirmed goods were delivered to this address and in 
some cases were signed for. 
Mr M said if after its investigation Barclays were of the opinion that he had consented to the 
transactions and were holding him liable. He would like it to provide evidence that all goods 
purchased were delivered to him and signed for by him. If this wasnt the case, he should be 
eligible for a refund or the merchants should arrange to deliver the goods to him. He believes 
under normal circumstances if a merchant failed to deliver goods ordered he would be 
entitled to make chargeback claims. He asked Barclays to raise these claims  but it refused 
to do so. 
Mr M was not happy with Barclays response so brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didn't recommend that the transactions should be refunded to Mr M. In summary 
he felt unable to conclude that the transactions had been made fraudulently, and thought 
most likely theyd been authorised by Mr M. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators outcome and asked for his case to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. So his complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Having looked at everything I could see there were some aspects of Mr Ms complaint which 
our investigator had not commented on. In these circumstances I felt it would be helpful for 
me to speak to Mr M to get a better understanding of his concerns, gather some further 
information and explain this services role. Having spoken to him it became clear to me Mr M 
has very strong feelings about his complaint. He maintains he has not made nor authorised 
anyone else to carry out the disputed transactions. 
I issued my provisional decision on 13 August 2020. In it, I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Ms complaint. An extract of that decision is set out below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im afraid I intend not to 
ask Barclays to refund the disputed transactions. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr M but as far as I can see Mr Ms case is largely 
based on his testimony. Id like to assure Mr M that by not upholding his complaint Im not 
calling into question his honesty. My role is to look at all the evidence I have, and reach what 
I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision  which I believe I have. 
I hope Mr M can understand in situations like these, where I wasnt present at the time the 
disputed transactions took place or when the preceding and ensuing events occurred  I 
cant know for certain what has happened. So, where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive 
or contradictory, I need to decide a complaint on what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened in light of all the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. Im 
afraid it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold this complaint based solely on Mr 
Ms testimony. 
I appreciate Mr M is adamant he did not authorise the disputed transactions and believes a 
criminal activity has taken place. He would like an explanation of what has happened and 
would like this service to investigate. But as Ive explained to Mr M in many situations such 
as this one, the Financial Ombudsman Service will often not be best placed to determine 
such a question. It is not this services remit to forensically investigate the alleged fraud nor 
does it have the power to carry out a criminal investigation  those are matters for the police 
and possibly better dealt with by a court. We are an informal dispute resolution service and it 
is for both parties to provide the evidence theyd like us to consider. My role is to be impartial 
and decide what I believe is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
With that being said, I would like to assure Mr M Ive read and considered the whole file, but 
as the purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them, 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues. If I dont mention any specific 
point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome. I hope Mr M does 
not take this as a discourtesy; our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service. 
The investigator wrote a detailed view that set out the transactions, relevant regulations and 
evidence. Both Mr M and Barclays have read the investigators view, so I wont repeat every 
detail here. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects which impact the decision Im 
making and any additional considerations which have not been covered.The regulation that is relevant when considering Mr Ms complaint in relation to the disputed 
transactions is the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs 2017). In short, Barclays is 
generally required to refund any unauthorised transactions. Mr M says he didnt make the 
disputed transactions, and they are unauthorised. So, my primary concern now is to come to 
a view about whether or not I think Mr M authorised the transactions and whether Barclays 
conclusion that he did was reasonable. If Im satisfied that Mr M did, then I wouldnt ask 
Barclays to refund him. 
Firstly, having reviewed Barclays technical evidence Im satisfied, that Mr Ms genuine card 
details - the 16-digit number on the front of the card, the expiry date, the 3-digit security code 
on the back of the card and billing address were used to make and authenticate the disputed 
transactions. I accept that is not, on its own, enough to permit Barclays to hold Mr M liable 
for the disputed transactions. 
However, Barclays can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. Ive carefully 
thought about whether Mr M consented to the transactions being made and to help me 
decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well as what both 
Mr M and Barclays have told us. 
As all the disputed transactions were made online and did not require the physical card to be 
present, I agree with Mr M that I cant rule out the possibility that someone was able to do 
that without his knowledge. However, weighing everything up, on balance, Im not persuaded 
that an unknown fraudster obtained Mr Ms card details, hacked his Internet service and 
managed to successfully intercept (on several occasions) items delivered to his home 
address without detection. I think its much more likely the payments were made by Mr M or 
by someone with his permission. I say this for the following reasons; 
Mr M has explained how he keeps his card safe and that no one else has access to 
it. He lives alone and when he reported the fraud to Barclays, the card was still in his 
possession. He was certain it wasnt possible for someone to have taken it and 
replaced it.
The disputed payments were all made online  so the physical card was not required. 
I can see Mr M has made payments using his card before. So of course, its possible 
that someone couldve taken a copy of his details. But I think this scenario of 
compromise is unlikely as it doesnt explain how an unknown fraudster who had 
simply got hold of Mr Ms card details would have known, or would have been able to 
guess, his address  as whoever made the transactions also entered Mr Ms address 
for authentication and delivery.
Similarly, the transactions were made from an IP address that Mr M used regularly 
for genuine transactions and to access his mobile banking. Whilst Ive thought about 
what Mr M has said that its not impossible for these to be hacked, and he has said 
that he has been a victim of this before. Im afraid Ive seen no evidence that 
suggests his Internet, phone or details were hacked in some way and Im not 
persuaded this is what has happened here. Ive looked at Mr Ms Barclays account statements in the months prior to the disputed 
transactions and can see it was not used as a regular account. He has told me he 
has another account which, is his main account, that he uses regularly. He very 
rarely had an account balance of more than a couple hundred pounds in his Barclays 
account. And any large amounts crediting the account in the past were transferred 
out or spent within a few weeks. It seems plausible, given the past account history 
that the large credits were made in order to fund the disputed transactions. When I 
asked Mr M about the incoming credits, he didnt feel he needed to provide an 
explanation of where they came from and couldnt see why this was relevant. But 
when questioned further all that he disclosed was that they were from a friend for a 
deposit.
The large credits into the account were made just before, or during, the period of the 
disputed transactions. The technical data also shows no online banking logins were 
attempted during the period the disputed transactions took place. The first 
transaction attempted was for a large amount totalling over £5,000, this indicates to 
me that whoever was using the card details knew there was a substantial amount of 
money available in the account. I think its unlikely an unknown fraudster using the 
card details without Mr Ms consent wouldve known this information  especially 
given that Mr M usually maintained a very low balance and didnt often use the 
account. So, it raises the question of how some unknown third-party wouldve known 
not only Mr Ms card details, residential address, but also this level of detail about the 
incoming payments and balance of the account before making purchases over a 
period of roughly a month.
Id also typically expect a fraudster to try to maximise their opportunity as fast as 
possible. Therefore, I would usually expect numerous attempts in quick succession in 
order to empty the account before the account holder is alerted and reports the fraud. 
But that wasnt the pattern here. The disputed transactions take place at various 
intervals over the course of the month from 3 September 2019 until the matter was 
reported on 27 September 2019. This pattern indicates that whoever made these 
transactions wasnt likely to be an unknown fraudster as it would be unusual for a 
fraudster to act in that way.
Mr M says he couldn't obtain any information from the merchants as he couldn't be 
verified. He says the details used were not his, so he was unable to answer their 
security questions. I can see from the evidence available to me that the merchants 
appear to have Mr Ms correct name and residential address. They do however, have 
a different email address and telephone number to those provided to us by Mr M or 
those which were held by Barclays. I understand why Mr M feels this is evidence to 
support it was not him and that he didnt receive the goods but the issue I need to 
decide isnt who physically ordered or received the goods, but rather were these 
transactions authorised by Mr M. Ive thought about this carefully and weighing 
everything up Im not persuaded this is enough reason for me to conclude that Mr M 
didnt make or otherwise consent to somebody else making the transactions. Firstly I 
cant ignore the fact that the goods were delivered to Mr M's residential address; 
secondly I dont think its uncommon for individuals to have multiple email addresses; 
thirdly Mr M has confirmed that he does have another email and mobile  so this is 
not something unusual for him; fourthly Ive seen no evidence to support the email 
address or telephone number belonged to someone else and even if I were what it 
still wouldn't prove is whether this was done without Mr Ms knowledge and 
permission.Mr M says he returned one of the deliveries as he inadvertently happened to be 
home when it arrived. But given that it wouldve been addressed to him I find it 
unusual that Mr M didnt check his accounts or make further enquires at this time 
especially as he has mentioned hed been a victim of fraud before.
I can also see from Mr Ms statements there are multiple refunds, not one  including 
a refund for £599 many weeks after the purchase and reporting of the disputed 
transactions. Whilst I accept there might be a perfectly credible explanation for this, 
its worth noting if that isnt the case, I find it unusual that a fraudster returned items. 
This is not what Id expect to see as a fraudster would not have benefited from this, 
as the refund was returned to the account from which it was paid - Mr Ms account.
From what Ive seen the disputed transactions were largely for building materials; 
electronics; large and small household items. These items were delivered to Mr Ms 
residential address across numerous days. Aside from there not being a plausible 
explanation as to how a fraudster wouldve got hold of Mr Ms address it seems 
highly unlikely to me that a fraudster would wait at Mr Ms property putting 
themselves at significant risk of detection by him or anyone else who lives in his 
block of flats  especially as there were multiple orders delivered over the course of 
the month. And some large household appliances wouldve been hard not to have 
noticed being delivered, such as a washer/dryer, built in double oven, cooker hoods 
and hobs. Its also questionable why a fraudster would choose to use the address of 
the person they were trying to defraud, when they could more easily have used 
another address to intercept the goods. So I think its more likely than not that the 
deliveries were received by Mr M or by someone with his consent. Ive thought about 
what Mr M has said about him having noticed a suspicious looking van being parked 
outside his flats. But I dont think this is enough to persuade me that the deliveries 
werent received by Mr M or without his knowledge. 
I appreciate any of these things in isolation are not conclusive of anything. But they are not 
irrelevant either and, taking account of them altogether I do not think that the transactions 
were made by an unknown fraudster or by someone acting without Mr Ms knowledge or 
consent. I say this because I havent been persuaded of a plausible explanation for how an 
unknown third-party couldve obtained Mr Ms card details, been able to find out his address, 
based on his card details, known when he wouldnt be home to receive the deliveries, 
potentially accessing his property or managing to successfully intercept each delivery except 
for one which Mr M says he returned, without being detected and been able to access his 
Internet to place the orders, without him sharing this information. So, I think on balance 
either Mr M made the transactions himself or someone made them with his authority. And 
because I think this it is fair for Barclays to hold him liable for the transactions. 
Chargeback 
I understand that Mr M is particularly unhappy Barclays refused to raise chargebacks, which 
he believes he is entitled to, for the disputed transactions. He considers Barclays refusal to 
help him seek recovery unfair.
I know Mr M thinks as Barclays is of the opinion, he authorised the transactions, and he has 
no option but to accept this - as he still dissents receipt of any goods Barclays shouldve 
raised chargebacks for goods and services not received.Whilst I agree a chargeback is a means of recovering funds in dispute, it isnt a consumer 
right; its a voluntary scheme; something provided for by the relevant card scheme rules and 
there is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
I of course consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the rights exist 
and there is some prospect of success. However, in the circumstances of Mr Ms case I cant 
find that Barclays decision to not raise a chargeback was unfair or unreasonable. I say this 
for the following reasons;
Mr M reported the matter as fraud and said he had not made or authorised the 
purchases. Barclays followed the correct procedure treating the transactions as 
unauthorised and investigating the matter.
A prerequisite for contractual disputes is cardholder engagement (i.e. not fraud). 
Because of the nature of Mr Ms dispute  that he did not make or otherwise consent 
to any purchases - there were no suitable dispute chargeback reason codes for 
Barclays to have pursued in order to resolve his claim.
Ive even thought about if Mr M had changed his claim to say that he did make or 
authorise someone to make the transactions he wouldve needed to have provided 
Barclays with certain evidence; that he did purchase the goods or service and had 
tried to resolve the matter with the merchant. Mr M hasnt provided any evidence that 
would support a chargeback claim to be made and even if he did now have this 
information, chargeback claims are time sensitive and most claims would need to be 
made within 120 days from the date of the transaction  which has now passed.
But even still, a chargeback isnt guaranteed to result in a refund  the merchant can 
defend it if it can show its provided goods or services and, in this case, enquires 
made by both Mr M and Barclays to some of the merchants confirmed that the 
delivery address was Mr Ms genuine residential address and the items were 
delivered.
And since Barclays already knew the same IP address regularly used by Mr M was 
used to place the orders and merchants has responded to enquires made providing 
confirmation that goods were delivered to Mr Ms genuine home address and signed 
for. I dont think based on the information available to Barclays, it was an 
unreasonable conclusion for it to reach that the merchants would respond to defend 
a chargeback request  so there was likely no real prospect of success. 
As Mr Ms position has always been that the transactions were unauthorised, considering all 
the above I dont think it was unreasonable for the Barclays to refuse to raise chargebacks. 
Barclays confirmed it had received my provisional decision. It currently had nothing further to 
add. 
Mr M responded to my provisional decision. He disagreed with the outcome, he maintains he 
has been a victim of a fraud which couldve easily been avoided if Barclays was more 
vigilant. He felt hed shared his frustrations with me, but these had not been taken into 
consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Id like to assure Mr M I carefully thought about and took into consideration, all his comments 
before reaching my provisional decision. 
As neither party had any further submissions or comments on the substance of what Ive 
said in my provisional decision for my consideration, I see no reason deviate from the 
outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
I remain of the view that, on balance, I do not think that the disputed transactions were made 
by an unknown fraudster or by someone acting without Mr Ms knowledge or consent. So it 
follows that Barclays didnt treat Mr M unfairly when it held him liable for the disputed 
transactions. Nor do I think it was unreasonable, under the circumstances, for Barclays to 
decide not to raise chargebacks. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman