DRN-2876523
Complaint
Mr H says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Background
The policy was sold to Mr H during a telephone call in 1998, several days after Mr H had 
applied for his credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
On 13 May 2021, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I explained 
why I agreed with the outcome reached by the adjudicator. And I gave Mr H and MBNA an 
opportunity to respond. Below is an extract of what I said:
Mr H says he wasnt aware PPI had been added to his credit card. He said he applied for 
the credit card by post and he didnt ask for it or need it. MBNA, on the other hand, has told 
us the PPI was sold during a telephone call and that it would have gained Mr Hs consent 
before adding it to his credit card.
In support of what its said, MBNA has provided us with a copy of Mr Hs credit card 
application form and a screenshot from its internal system, which it says shows the PPI sale 
took place over the telephone. Looking at the information MBNA has sent in, Im satisfied 
that its more likely than not that MBNA spoke with Mr H about PPI over the telephone and 
that following that call, a policy was added to his credit card. 
Unfortunately MBNA hasnt been able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script 
used at the time of the sale. This isnt unusual given the sale took place over 22 years ago 
and businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. Therefore, I dont know what 
was said to Mr H when the policy was sold. So I have had to base my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened at the time of the sale.
MBNA has provided us with a copy of Mr Hs signed credit card application form which was 
completed and signed in June 1998. On the application form I can see that Mr H had the 
option of selecting Yes to the PPI. At the time, Mr H didnt tick the box, indicating he didnt 
want PPI added to his account at that stage. So I think he would have been aware that it was 
up to him to decide whether or not he wanted to have PPI. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think Ive seen enough in this case to make me think 
that it is more likely than not, the policy was added without his knowledge. Instead, I think its 
more likely than not Mr H agreed to take it out, knowing that he didnt have to. 
Mr H has said that MBNA recommended the PPI to him. MBNA on the other hand, has said 
that it didnt. I dont know what was discussed between Mr H and MBNA when they spoke on 
the telephone and there is not a call script available. So I have thought carefully about what 
Mr H has said, what I know generally about MBNA sales of PPI over the telephone and the 
available information. Having done so, I havent seen anything to suggest that MBNA made 
a detailed assessment of Mr Hs circumstances or tailored a recommendation when it sold 
Mr H the policy. So I dont think that it recommended the PPI to him. This means MBNA 
didnt have to check if it was right for Mr H. But it did have to make sure he got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr H doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions or unusual employment 
circumstances. I also havent seen anything to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mr H 
or that he wasnt eligible for the cover. 
Mr H told us in recent communication that he would have been entitled to two weeks full pay 
followed by four weeks half pay from his employer if he was too unwell to work and its likely 
he would have received some redundancy pay. Hes also told us he didnt have any savings 
or other means he could have used to cover his credit card repayments if he ever fell on 
hard times. Having thought about what Mr H has told us about sick pay and redundancy pay, 
I dont think this means the PPI wouldnt have been useful for him. I say this because the 
PPI would have paid out in addition to the sick pay he would have received from his 
employer until he returned to work or the outstanding balance had been cleared. The PPI 
also would have paid a benefit if Mr H was ever made redundant, in addition to any 
redundancy payment he would have received from his employer and for up to twelve 
months. So, I dont think better information would have put him off taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont currently think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means 
MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because MBNA didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision. Both Mr Hs representative and MBNA have confirmed receipt of the provisional 
decision and had nothing further to add. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs case. 
As neither Mr H nor MBNA provided any further evidence for me to look at, Ive reached the 
same conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. So I dont 
uphold the complaint. Which means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr H.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because MBNA didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold the 
complaint. So MBNA Limited doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But MBNA Limited does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Donna Parsons
Ombudsman