DRN-1354679
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy about the home emergency policy provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA). He says that IPA did not deal with his claims appropriately and the policy is not fit for 
purpose.
What happened
Mr K contacted IPA because his radiators were leaking. He did this through HomeRescue 
Plus, an optional extra as part of his home insurance policy, which covered home 
emergencies. IPA arranged for an engineer to attend Mr Ks property.
The engineer assessed the leak and decided that the radiators needed to be replaced. The 
engineer submitted a report to IPA, along with a quote to replace the radiators. IPA said that 
new radiators were not covered by the policy and so told Mr K that the issue could not be 
dealt with through his home emergency policy.
Mr K was unhappy about this. He was a qualified plumber and would normally have fixed the 
problem himself, but due to an injury was unable to do so. He said that the radiators did not 
need to be replaced. Instead, they just needed the valves to be cleaned and for some 
special tape to be applied.
The insurance agent said that Mr K could arrange for an engineer to submit a report to IPA. 
Mr K would have to pay for this himself and then claim the money back. Alternatively, he 
could wait for his complaint to be resolved.
Mr K did not want to pay for an engineer to come out. He also felt that because he was a 
plumber he was qualified to make the assessment himself. In the end, Mr K and his son 
repaired the radiators by cleaning the valves and applying the special tape. This fixed the 
leaking radiators.
Mr K also contacted IPA when the timer function of the central heating clock stopped 
working. IPA said it was unable to deal with the issue. It said Mr K still had heating and hot 
water. The timer not working was an inconvenience rather than an emergency.
Mr K complained to this service. He said that his home emergency policy was not fit for 
purpose.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said that IPA has dealt with the complaint 
fairly and in line with the terms of the policy.
As Mr K did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I will start by looking at how IPA dealt with the radiator leak. Mr K was unhappy with the 
original diagnosis and also with the suggested solution of him paying for a report himself and 
then claiming the money back.
I can understand Mr K was unhappy at potentially having to pay for another engineer to 
come out, both in terms of the cost and also because he felt he was able to diagnose the 
issue himself. 
I have read the terms and conditions of the policy. I do not think the policy explicitly covers 
the exact circumstances that have arisen here  that the consumer disagrees with the 
diagnosis of the engineer sent to deal with the emergency call out. However the policy does 
describe circumstances where the consumer might be expected to pay and then reclaim the 
money. 
On page 26 of the policy, under the HomeRescue Plus section, it says:
In some circumstances we may find it difficult to deploy an authorised contractor to attend 
your Home or deal with your emergency within a reasonable timescale. Examples of such 
circumstances are: 
- Excessive demand 
- Bad weather 
- Industrial action 
- Parts availability 
- Availability of a specialist. 
In these circumstances you may, with our prior agreement, arrange for your own contractor 
to resolve your emergency and we will refund the cost of your contractor up to £250 
including VAT. You will need to provide a fully itemised invoice or receipt from your 
contractor to support your claim for reimbursement.
The list of circumstances the policy described was not exhaustive and it seems to me like a 
reasonable use of this part of the policy. It enabled IPA to show the flexibility to allow Mr K to 
get another assessment and then get the issue resolved. It also meant that Mr K could get 
this from someone of his own choice, given he was not happy with the assessment of the 
engineer who had previously come out.
I am also aware that Mr K ultimately fixed the issue himself and that it seems to have been 
resolved by cleaning the valves and applying some tape, as he had said. It therefore 
appears that he correctly diagnosed the issue and the solution.
However, it is reasonable for an insurer to seek an independent diagnosis, rather than to 
accept the diagnosis made by the consumer, even if they are a qualified plumber. This is 
because a consumer has a vested interest in the issue. In the circumstances, I think it is 
reasonable that they did not rely on Mr Ks diagnosis.
I have also considered whether it was reasonable for IPA not to deal with Mr Ks claim about 
the timer function of the central heating clock.
Under the HomeRescue Plus section, the policy defines an emergency as follows:What is insured
This section only insures emergency repairs to the home arising from one of the events 
listed below occurring suddenly and unexpectedly.
An emergency repair to the home is one that is needed to prevent, reduce or resolve an 
immediate risk of
a. Injury to the family or
b. Loss of or damage to the buildings or contents or
c. The home becoming uninhabitable
Although this might be a more narrow definition of an emergency than in some policies, I 
cannot say that it is unreasonable to define an emergency in this way. On that basis, the 
clock timer did not fall within the definition and was therefore not eligible for repair under the 
terms of the policy.
After our investigator sent Mr K his findings, Mr K came back with two points. He said that he 
did not think IPA had complied with the policy because there was permanent, albeit minor, 
damage to his carpet. He also said that the £250 maximum claim limit did not mention the 
call out charge.
On the point about damage to the carpet, Mr K seems to be arguing that IPA did not regard 
the leaking radiators as coming within the definition of an emergency. However, IPA sent 
someone out to deal with the issue under the terms of the emergency part of the policy. 
When Mr K disputed the findings, it also gave him the opportunity to get another 
assessment, but Mr K chose not to do this. IPA therefore did consider this as eligible under 
the emergency part of the policy, even though, ultimately, it did not resolve the issue to Mr 
Ks satisfaction.
In terms of the £250 maximum claim limit, the wording on page 24 that says:
We will not pay in total more than £250 (inclusive of VAT) in respect of emergency repairs 
arising from any one event
Mr K is correct that this part of the policy does not itemise each chargeable element of 
carrying out a repair. However, the policy does say that IPA will not pay in total more than 
£250. Although IPA could have listed each item that was included in the costs of a repair, I 
do not think that it was unreasonable that they did not do so. During his discussions with 
IPA, Mr K could also have asked if call-out charges were included.
I also have to consider if the policy is fit for purpose. Although a policy that potentially 
requires the customer to pay the upfront costs might not suit all consumers, I think IPA was 
clear about this possibility in its policy so that a consumer could then decide if it was the right 
policy for them.
IPA also allowed for a difference of opinion between an engineer and a consumer and for 
another assessment to be obtained when this happened. On that basis, I think this indicates 
that there was some flexibility in the way that the policy was applied so that the leaks could 
have been fixed, depending on what the new diagnosis identified, without Mr K having to 
repair it himself.As I have already explained, the clock timer issue did not fall within the definition of an 
emergency and I think that is reasonable.
I dont think any of these issues mean that the policy was not fit for purpose.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman