DRN-2198532
The complaint
Mr B complains that  Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt provide him with an 
enhanced annuity when it reviewed his case as part of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) review of annuity sales.
What happened
In July 2008,Mr B purchased two annuities through Aviva using the pension fund he 
already had with Aviva.
In October 2019, Mr B was sent a letter by Aviva telling him that it would be reviewing the 
sale of his annuities as part of the FCA review of annuity sales. This was because Mr B 
may have been entitled to an enhanced annuity because of health or lifestyle conditions 
when the annuities were sold to him. 
Mr B completed a health and lifestyle questionnaire and Aviva reviewed his case. Aviva 
concluded that Mr B wouldnt have been entitled to an enhanced annuity when the 
annuities were originally sold to him. So, it said he had not lost out.
Mr B didnt accept the outcome of the review. He said he didnt understand how Aviva 
couldve reached this conclusion, given that another provider had found that he was eligible 
for an enhanced annuity based on the same facts. Mr B said he had purchased two more 
annuities through the other provider around the same time as he bought the Aviva 
annuities. 
Mr B said that this other provider had carried out a review of the annuity sales it made to 
him. And that other provider had found that Mr B was entitled to an enhanced annuity and 
had agreed to pay him more. Mr B said he provided the same background information to 
both Aviva and this other provider to carry out their reviews.  
Mr B said that if both providers had used the same FCA guidance when carrying out their 
reviews, the outcome shouldve been the same from both providers and most likely Aviva 
had got it wrong. 
Our investigator looked in to Mr Bs complaint. He didnt recommend it was upheld. He 
concluded that Aviva had shown it had reviewed his annuity sale in line with FCA guidance 
and the outcome of that review was that Mr B had not lost out on an enhanced annuity 
income as a result of shortcomings in Avivas sales process. The investigator was also 
satisfied that Aviva had made Mr B aware of the option to take his pension pot and 
purchase an annuity through another provider via the open market option.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
shopping around
Having looked at the retirement pack Mr B was given by Aviva in 2008, when he purchased 
his two annuities, I can see that he was told of the option to take a transfer value and 
purchase an annuity from another provider, generally referred to as the open market option 
(OMO). As Mr B signed and returned documents from this pack, I think it likely that he 
received this information. 
So, I cant see that Aviva did anything wrong here.
FSA enhanced annuities review
Businesses were required to work out the annuity their customers wouldve received had 
their health and lifestyle been considered at the point of sale. If customers shouldve 
received an increased annuity at the point sale, businesses were required to adjust the 
annuity payments going forward and reimburse the difference between the lower 
payments theyd already received and the increased annuity.
Based on what Ive seen, I cant see that Mr B told Aviva of any health and lifestyle 
conditions prior to purchasing the annuities in July 2008, that wouldve entitled him to an 
enhanced annuity. 
As part of Avivas review, Mr B completed a questionnaire setting out his health and 
lifestyle conditions at the time of sale. He mentioned one health condition, but he himself 
accepted that as it was not life shortening, likely this condition wouldnt have resulted in 
him being offered an enhanced annuity.
Mr B said he believed the other provider enhanced his annuities because of his height to 
weight ratio (Body Mass Index). He said he provided identical information to Aviva and this 
other provider for review. 
Our investigator spoke with the other provider. That provider said that the reason why Mr B 
was offered an enhanced annuity was because he said when he completed the other 
providers post sale questionnaire that he had another health condition. On the Aviva 
questionnaire, it asked specifically whether Mr B was suffering from this particular 
condition. But, Mr B answered no. Mr B also told our investigator on the phone that at the 
time he was sold the Aviva annuities he was not suffering from the condition mentioned in 
the other providers questionnaire. The other provider said that it sold its annuities to Mr B 
in December 2008, around five months after the Aviva annuities were sold.
Even if Mr B was suffering from this other condition in June 2008, which to be clear he 
said he wasnt, I cant fairly say that Aviva acted unfairly in the way it carried out its 
review, as Mr B didnt inform it, even when directly asked, that he was suffering from the 
condition he told the other provider he had.
So, I cant see that Aviva did anything wrong in the way it carried out the review. It appears 
that it took into account all relevant information provided to it by Mr B when considering 
whether he was entitled to an enhanced annuity. So, it follows that I cant fairly uphold      
Mr Bs complaint or require Aviva to increase his annuity.
My final decisionI do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman