DRN-3395242
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC misled him regarding a credit card closure.
What happened
Mr C had two credit cards with Lloyds. Lloyds wrote to Mr C to say that they would be
closing one of his accounts. Mr C contacted Lloyds, where he says the call handler informed
him that his account was still open and he was offered a new card for the account. He said
that he hadnt received a replacement card for ten years after his previous card expired. Mr
C said that his card declined in a shop when he tried to use it, as Lloyds had closed his
account.
Mr C complained to Lloyds. Lloyds explained to Mr C that a business decision was made to
close the type of credit card that Mr C held and that customers with dormant accounts were
written to, explaining that their account would be closed on 27 January 2020 and there was
no option to keep the account open.
Lloyds said that on the call Mr C had with them on 23 October 2019, a new card was
ordered for him as he could use the credit card until the date of closure. They said it was
made clear to him on the call that he could use the card, while the account was still open,
the date of closure was confirmed and he was informed he could reapply for another credit
card. Lloyds apologised if Mr C thought that they had misled him with his new credit card
having an expiry date of October 2023. Lloyds offered Mr C £30 for inconvenience for being
on the phone for a considerable amount of time, which Mr C declined the offer.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator said she didnt agree that Lloyds
misled Mr C during his phone conversation with them in October 2019. While the call handler
acknowledged that Mr C had said he would apply for the account to remain open, she didnt
think their intention was to confirm the account would remain open past January 2020, given
that Lloyds had already said the account was due to close and he could use the card until
then.
Our investigator also didnt think Lloyds misled Mr C by sending him a new credit card with
an expiry date of four years as Mr C already had notification via letter and from the
telephone conversation that the account would be closing soon. She said with regards to the
expiry dates on cards they reflect when the card will no longer work and not when an
account will be closed.
Mr C asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that Lloyds had admitted
they had misled him by issuing him with a card with a four year expiry date, plus his
protestations to keep the account open was reason enough to believe Lloyds had changed
their earlier decision. He also said that Lloyds kept his account open for ten years when he
didnt use the account, but they closed his account once he started using his new card. He
asked whether Lloyds acted in error by issuing a card with an expiry date of four years
instead of three months.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive listened to the phone call that Mr C had with Lloyds in October 2019. The call handler
tells Mr C the account will be closed down unless you are thinking of using it in the future.
Mr C indicates that he does want to use the account in the future. The call handler says
okay, you want to use it for the time its still open, Mr C then explains once I have the card
and its used then they can see theres use on it and I can apply for this to be not closed.
The call handler says sure sir I mean would you like a PIN number for that as well.
While the call handler acknowledges what Mr C had said, Im persuaded he wasnt focusing
on what Mr C was saying as he was ordering the new card at the time Mr C was talking. So I
can understand why Mr C would be under the impression that he may be able to use his
card past the closure date when hes finished this call. Although the call handler had said Mr
C could use the card while his account was still open, the call handler also agreed with Mr C
that he could apply for the account to be not closed and the call handler indicated the
account would be closed down  unless Mr C was considering using it in the future, which
Mr C was.
Im persuaded that there was a breakdown of communication by the call handler here as
whereas he says Mr C could be eligible to apply for another credit card once the account
closes, the call handler doesnt correct Mr C when he talks about applying for the account to
stay open and Im persuaded he does give the impression the account could stay open if Mr
C uses his card.
Ive also considered what else happened before Mr Cs account was closed. Lloyds say they
wrote to Mr C on 13 December 2019, reiterating that his account would be closed. Mr C then
had a call with Lloyds on 19 December 2019, which Ive listened to.
The call handler explains to Mr C that after they had sent the original letter to him in October
2019, and before he had started to use the account again, unfortunately, the dormancy
process had already started, it was already a week into starting and that unfortunately is a
one way street on that. The call handler explained that they were unable to reverse the
decision and reiterated the card would be closed on 27 January 2020, to which Mr C
responded okay yeah.
The call handler explains to Mr C that he could apply for a separate credit card, so he could
still have two credit cards with Lloyds, but reiterated that one of his credit cards would
definitely be closed on 27 January 2020 and that was due to the inactivity on the account.
Mr C explains to the call handler that Lloyds sent him a new card even though the account
was due to be closed down. The call handler told Mr C they should never have sent you a
card because the memos/notes here saying no opt out of closure available and thats all in
capital letters here. She goes onto say notes went on the system on 22 October to explain
the pre-closure process had been started but the replacement card was ordered on 23
October. The call handler says someone definitely dropped the ball with regards to that
ordering of the card as there was absolutely no point in ordering the card. If they had just
looked at the day before they would have been able to see the card was already in preclosure status.
So Im persuaded, as confirmed by the December call handler, that the original call handler
could have done a lot more to be clearer with Mr C. As a result of this, Mr C was
inconvenienced by believing his account had a chance of staying open past the closure date
he had been given. It was only two months later when Lloyds were clear to him that there
was no chance the account could stay open.
If the original call handler had read the notes prior to reordering the card for Mr C, then he
could have explained to Mr C that he could order him a new card, but the account would still
be closed on 27 January 2020. Then he couldve clarified if Mr C still wanted a new card. He
also could have explained that the closure procedure had already started before Mr C rang
and corrected Mr C when Mr C talked about using the new card so he could apply to keep
the account open.
Ive thought about what Mr C has said about Lloyds misleading him. And that Lloyds have
admitted misleading him. But here, Im persuaded that the call handler wasnt paying
attention to what Mr C was saying as he was ordering a new card. The wording of Lloyds
final response letter apologises if Mr C thinks they have misled him, but it doesnt say that
they misled him. I also asked Lloyds about this. Lloyds say they did not say they misled him,
just that they apologised if he thought they had misled him.
Ive then thought about what Mr C has said about the new card being issued for four years
and that is an indication that Lloyds had changed their mind about closing his account. And
also what Mr C has said about if Lloyds had acted in error by issuing him a card with this
expiry date instead of three months. But I cant agree with either of these points. I say this as
it is clear from Decembers letter and phone call that Lloyds hadnt changed their mind by
issuing a card with a four year expiry date. As cards tend to be produced centrally, I asked
Lloyds if their credit cards could be issued with a shorter expiry date.
Lloyds said that the expiry date would be set to the automated expiry for credit cards when
they are produced and Lloyds wouldnt stipulate how long a card was to be valid for. The
only way a customer would get a card with a shorter expiry date is if they got a replacement
card due to damage etc, then they would get a card issued showing the same remaining
term as their existing card. While Mr C would not be aware of this, I cant say that Lloyds did
anything wrong here with the expiry date automatically being set.
Ive then considered what Mr C has said about his account being open for ten years when he
didnt use his account but then his account was closed when he did start using his account. I
can understand why it would seem that way to Mr C, however, the December call handler
explained to him his account had already been set to close before he had his new card
issued to him.
So I cant agree with Mr C on this issue. Lloyds made a business decision to allow him to
keep his account open for a number of years without using it, and they made a business
decision to close the account  before he started using his card again  even though the
closure formally happened after he had started using his card again. So, I cant say Lloyds
acted unreasonably here or closed his account only because he started using the card
again.
As Ive mentioned previously, Im persuaded that the first phone call which Mr C had with
Lloyds could have saved him a lot of inconvenience if the call handler had reiterated the
contents of the letter and if he had been clear that the account under no circumstances could
stay open (like the December call handler did). The ending of this phone call, whether the
call handler was listening to what Mr C had asked or not, set an expectation for Mr C that hecould potentially use the account past the closure date so I can see why an expiry date past
the closure date on Mr Cs credit card may leave Mr C to believe they had changed their
mind to close the account  although the expiry date was automatically set and the
subsequent letter and phone call in December 2019 made it clear this wasnt possible.
So Ive considered the £30 compensation that Lloyds have offered Mr C. But Im not
persuaded that this amount is fair considering all of the circumstances of his complaint. I say
this as while I dont think it was intentional, the original call handler set an expectation for Mr
C that he may be able to use his account past the closure date. And it was only two months
after this when Mr C was sent a letter in December and had a clear conversation with
another call handler which he definitively found out this wasnt the case.
It will have been disappointing to say the least for the new call handler to tell him that the
original call handler dropped the ball, the notes on the account where clear in capital letters
that the pre-closure had started and that there was no point in the original call handler
ordering Mr C a new card. So I think for the impact the events had on Mr C, I think it is
reasonable to ask Lloyds to pay a further £70 compensation, taking the total compensation
to £100.
Im satisfied this amount is fair as Lloyds never intended to keep Mr Cs account open once
they had made the decision to close it. But I do think he was unintentionally inconvenienced
by the discussion he had on the October phone call for the reasons Ive already given. So I
intend to ask Lloyds to put things right for Mr C.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. Mr C responded and said it was pleasing 
that I had given a more thorough examination of what happened. He also said that Lloyds 
did not afford him access to the second telephone recording, so this point should be 
considered accordingly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr C has said regarding Lloyds not affording him the access to the 
second telephone recording. But here, I can only focus on the merits of the complaint that Mr 
C has brought to our service, which didnt include any details about the second telephone 
call. I appreciate Mr C may have forgotten about his second call with Lloyds due to the time 
its taken for his complaint to progress or he may not have been aware that the call was 
recorded, but as this has not been something which was included in Mr Cs original 
complaint, unfortunately it is outside of my remit to consider this here, so Mr C may wish to 
speak directly to Lloyds regarding this point, however, I have included the salient points of 
the conversation in my provisional decision.
In summary, Mr Cs response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr C will be disappointed that I cant 
consider what hes said about Lloyds not affording him the access to the second telephone 
call, but I hope he understand my reasons.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to ask Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr C a further £70 in 
addition to the £30 which they offered  a total of £100 for distress and inconvenience. Im 
still satisfied this is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr C a total of £100 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman