DRN-2958200
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his motor insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) in respect of the 
settlement offered to him to repair his car after it was damaged in an accident that was not 
his fault. He was also unhappy that once the settlement was paid to him (which he hadnt 
agreed with) his courtesy car was withdrawn.
What happened
Mr A had an accident in August 2020. He wanted to use a garage he had chosen for repair 
and UKI was happy to instruct that garage to complete the work. UKIs engineer agreed a 
repair plan and costs with the garage. But the garage then said it wouldnt be happy to 
complete the repairs. So UKI paid Mr A £3,838, being the price it would have paid the 
garage for the agreed work, including VAT (although VAT wasnt specified in UKIs offer 
letter). Mr A was unhappy  he had obtained a quote for over £6,000, which included 
replacing the bonnet, whereas UKI was only paying for its repair.
Whilst Mr As car was roadworthy, since the time of the accident hed had the use of a 
courtesy car. But once UKI paid him the settlement money, the courtesy car was withdrawn. 
Mr A didnt think that was fair because he hadnt agreed to the settlement, and in fact, he 
was disputing it as he couldnt get his car repaired for that sum. UKI said Mr As policy only 
allowed for the provisions of a courtesy car until the claim was settled, which it had been.
Mr A complained to us. He provided a report from a mechanical and design engineer with 
experience in the motor and aerospace industry, which said the bonnet had to be replaced. 
He also provided a further two repair estimates from two different garages. These allowed 
for replacing the bonnet as the estimate for over £6,000 had but totalled much less 
(£4,415.56 and £4,550.00, both including VAT). UKI said Mr As engineer didnt seem to 
have relevant experience in vehicle damage assessment, as its experts did. As such UKI felt 
its experts were better placed to provide a persuasive view on the damage to the bonnet and 
they felt the bonnet could be repaired. Regarding the repair costs UKI felt its settlement was 
reasonable because the price had been agreed with the garage Mr A had chosen.
Mr A believed that UKI had paid his settlement less VAT. He felt that wasnt fair. When our 
investigator asked UKI it said it would pay VAT once Mr A incurred it. Mr A still didnt think 
that it was fair for him to have to claim VAT back from UKI. 
Our investigator considered Mr As concerns. But he wasnt minded to uphold his complaint.  
When Mr A asked for an ombudsmans consideration his complaint was passed to me. 
I said I was: minded to uphold Mr As complaint as I think UKI should make a further 
payment to him  but given what its paid already  only once Mr A shows it a VAT invoice. 
I think it should also reimburse Mr As cost incurred for obtaining his expert report and pay 
him some compensation for what I see as its unfair settlement payment. But Im not minded 
to make UKI pay Mr A anything in respect of withdrawing his courtesy car.
Claim settlement and VAT
I think UKI acted unfairly when it settled on the basis of what it would have cost it to 
complete the repair. Thats because when the garage withdrew its offer to repair the car, UKI 
wasnt in a position to provide a repair. This left Mr A with no choice but to seek repair for his 
vehicle from other garages that UKI had not negotiated the repair cost with. And unless he 
could find a garage that would quote the same sum or less for the repairs, this was always 
likely to leave him at a loss. In my view UKIs settlement wasnt fair or reasonable.
Similarly, whilst UKI had an agreement with the garage to repair the bonnet  the garages 
Mr A approached werent subject to that agreement and, given the estimates generated 
which only referred to replacing the bonnet, didnt seem minded to complete that type of 
repair. The report provided by Mr As engineer is, in my view, persuasive. What it says 
seems, to me, to make sense and the expert does seem to have relevant experience. I say 
that as hes detailed as having worked in the field of mechanical and design engineering for 
the automotive industry  and an important part of the engineering design of a car is how it, 
including its component parts such as the bonnet, are affected by crashes. The expert says 
a repair is not recommended, all three garages approached by Mr A have only provided 
estimates for replacing the bonnet, and UKI hasnt been able to find a garage that will offer 
to complete the repairs. On balance I think the only fair way forwards is for UKI to pay Mr A 
in line with his cost for repairing his car, including replacing the bonnet.
Mr As lowest estimate was for £4,415.56, when excluding VAT the price for repair is 
£3,679.63. Despite not specifying as much to Mr A, UKIs settlement of £3,838.00 was 
inclusive of VAT. Usually an insurer wont pay VAT upfront in cash-in-lieu settlements for 
repairs, and this service generally finds that approach is reasonable. Thats because VAT 
doesnt become due until work has been done  so we consider that, until that point, a 
policyholder hasnt shown theyve incurred a cost in respect of VAT. So, given the sums in 
question  the value of the estimate I think UKI should pay, and the settlement sum it has 
already paid  the most UKI will now need to pay Mr A is £577.56 worth of VAT. Once Mr A 
gets his car repaired and shows UKI a VAT receipt for the work done, UKI will have to 
reimburse his VAT outlay to a maximum value of £577.56.
Mr As report
Mr A was charged £79.99. This report has changed the outcome of Mr As complaint. In line 
with our usual approach Im minded to make UKI reimburse this cost, plus interest* from the 
date Mr A paid for it until settlement is made.
Compensation for distress and inconvenience
I can see that Mr A was concerned and frustrated by UKIs settlement. Ive found that the 
basis and overall value for the settlement were unfair. I can see that as a result of that 
settlement Mr A has had to seek further estimates from other garages and obtain an expert 
report. He also hasnt felt able to go ahead with the repairs. I think UKI should pay him £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its unfair settlement has caused him. 
Courtesy car
Mr As policy entitled him to a courtesy car whilst UKI was dealing with his claim. But that 
entitlement ended with UKIs settlement payment. Whilst Ive found that the value of that 
settlement was unfair  the remedy for that is an additional payment. I havent found that UKI 
was actually wrong to settle in cash and Im not saying it should have continued to deal with 
the claim by carrying out the repair. 
Im also mindful that, in this situation, Mr A was not left without use of a car. I say that 
because whilst his car needed to be repaired, it wasnt unroadworthy. So, UKI finished dealing with Mr As claim by settling in cash  which Im satisfied it was fair 
for it to do  thereby ending Mr As policy entitlement to a courtesy car. And Mr A was still 
able to use his car. Therefore, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable to make 
UKI compensate Mr A for not having use of a courtesy car.
  
UKI said it accepted my findings. Mr A argued that there were more costs to be added to the 
estimate for £4,415.56 and sent further estimates. He said these estimates should form the 
base of the settlement. He noted Id referred in the background of my provisional findings, to 
another estimate hed provided earlier on in the complaint totalling £4,550. He said this 
estimate should be disregarded as it was a mistake. He said that this had not been given in 
respect of replacing the bonnet. I asked our investigator to ask Mr A if he had any proof that 
the estimate for £4,550 was wrong (because it does refer to replacing the bonnet and the 
work that goes with that). Mr A didnt provide anything other than his assurance that this is 
the case. I asked our investigator to return to both parties with a revision to my provisionally 
stated redress. I said:
If the extra work Mr A has identified in respect of the initial estimate, which I said UKI should 
pay against, is taken into account, it makes the cost for repair by that garage much more 
expensive than the estimate totalling £4,550. Ive not seen anything that persuades me the 
estimate for £4,550 is wrong and UKI only has to pay against the lowest estimate. Therefore 
Im satisfied that the correct estimate for the full repair figure is £4,550 (rather than 
£4,415.56). So Im amending my provisionally stated redress. Im now satisfied that UKI 
should pay Mr A, once he has the work done and obtains a VAT invoice - £712 being the 
difference between what UKI has already paid (£3,838) and Mr As estimate (of £4,550 
which includes £758.33 VAT).
UKI said it had nothing further to add. Mr A explained how disappointed he was by this 
outcome. He said he had tried to get proof from the garage but the mechanic had been 
unhelpful stating they do too many quotes to review one created a year ago. Mr A said it 
seemed unfair to use this quote to base the settlement on when this was the garage that had 
refused to do the work for UKI. Further, he said, the two other estimates hed obtained 
(including the one for £4,415 once the cost of other work was added to it) totalled around 
£6,000  so it wasnt fair for UKIs settlement to be based on one totalling so much less.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to anything I said about the cost of Mr As report, the courtesy 
car, or compensation, I wont comment on these issues further. Other than to say, my 
findings in those respects now form the findings of this, my final decision. 
Turning to what UKI now needs to pay, I note that Mr A hasnt objected to my explanation 
about this services view that its reasonable for insurers to only pay VAT once work is done. 
So I wont say anymore on this issue.
Regarding my revised provisional award for what UKI will have to pay once Mr A does get 
the work done, I note Mr As disappointment. However, Mr A submitted the estimate to us as 
evidence of what it would cost him to repair his car, and there is nothing in the document 
itself which suggests it is likely wrong or flawed. And whilst Mr A then quickly told us it was 
wrong, he gave us no explanation or proof to support that. Its unfortunate that he is now 
unable to get proof but in the absence of that his word alone that it is wrong isnt sufficient 
reason for me to disregard it. I know when the garage that gave this estimate was approached by UKI it refused to work 
on Mr As car. But that was because it wasnt prepared to repair the bonnet. This estimate it 
has given, according to its content, is for replacing the bonnet. So Im not persuaded the fact 
it previously refused to work on the car should reasonably give me cause to doubt the 
validity of this estimate.
Prices for work do vary. The fact that Mr A has had some more expensive estimates for the 
work, doesnt mean the one Ive said UKI should pay against is wrong or likely under-priced. 
With regret for any disappointment this causes Mr A, Im not persuaded to increase my 
revised decision on what UKI reasonably owes him for repairs, once he incurs a VAT 
invoice. As confirmed above, my findings regarding the other aspects of the complaint 
havent changed from those provisionally stated. And I remain of the view that UKI failed 
Mr A and needs to make further payments to him to put that right. 
   
Putting things right
I require UKI to:
Pay Mr A, once he submits a VAT invoice, the VAT he incurs for repairing his car, to a 
maximum value of £712.
Reimburse Mr A £79.99 being the value of his expert report, plus interest* from the date 
this was paid for until settlement is made. 
Pay Mr A £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr A, it should tell him how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out above 
at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman