DRN-1944877
The complaint
Mr H complains that Equiniti Financial Services Limited (trading at the time as Selftrade) 
incorrectly applied US Withholding tax to his US securities held in his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr H has a SIPP and Selftrade act as an execution only stockbroker for his assets within the 
SIPP. Mr H is unhappy as hed invested in US securities and Selftrade applied 15% 
Withholding tax to the dividends he received from these.
Mr H says that his SIPP provider applies a 0% rate and so do other stockbrokers hes 
spoken to. So Mr H believes Selftrade has taken the tax unnecessarily and unfairly.
Selftrade responded to say it had correctly applied the US Withholding Tax. It explained that 
the usual rate is 30% but as his SIPP provider held a global W-8BEN-E form, it was reduced 
to 15%. It explained it didnt provide a tax reclaim service but it would be happy to help Mr H 
in his efforts to reclaim through his SIPP provider or directly with the US tax authorities. It 
also said it would allow Mr H a penalty free transfer out of his US stocks. 
Our investigator looked into things but didnt think Selftrade had done anything wrong. He 
explained that Selftrade had to comply with a countrys tax authority and rules. And that 
whilst SIPP providers and other brokers may offer a 0% rate on Withholding tax this was a 
commercial decision made by each business.
Mr H disagreed and said that the reasoning was absurd. He said that applying tax was not a 
commercial decision and deducting Withholding tax was a legal obligation. He says that if 
other firms can apply 0% rate there must be no legal right or obligation to apply the tax here. 
And therefore it cannot be a commercial decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ultimately what I have to decide is whether Selftrade made an error or treated Mr H unfairly 
in applying the Withholding tax on Mr Hs US securities held with it.
Mr H has rightly pointed to the fact that some SIPP providers and brokers apply a 0% rate to 
withholding tax from US securities. I understand they are able to do this through the US-UK 
double tax treaty which states that if certain conditions are met US stocks held within a SIPP 
can benefit from a 0% rate.
However, this is subject to the SIPP providers and brokers choosing to do so. The automatic 
US Withholding tax rate applied is 30%. Most UK SIPP providers and brokers have the right 
structures in place to reduce this down to 15% with the W-8BEN-E form. As has occurred 
here. Selftrade explained it uses the global W-8BEN-E completed by his SIPP provider to 
apply the reduction on its US securities down from 30% to 15%.
As stated before, it appears that when these funds are held within a SIPP, the rate can be 
reduced down to 0%. However, this isnt something offered by all and is subject to the 
correct arrangements being put in place.
As our investigator explained, applying the reductions and putting in place all the measures 
to do so, is a commercial decision made by the businesses involved. From what I 
understand the reason not all SIPP providers and brokers offer this 0% rate is due to the 
costs and complicated arrangements that are needed to put this in place. And many 
stockbrokers and providers dont feel it isnt worth the costs involved (which they may pass 
back to investors in other ways in any event) to meet the requirements needed to be able to 
apply the 0% rate.
Mr Hs stocks are held by Selftrade in their name, on behalf of Mr H who is the beneficiary. 
This is called a nominee account.
The nominee account holds other investors shares. I understand that pooled nominee 
accounts are used as it makes trading and settling easier and cheaper. But my 
understanding is that in this this type of arrangement, with the shares held not by a single 
investor but instead in a pooled account, applying the 0% rate is more complicated. 
Selftrade has sent us the terms and conditions that apply to Mr Hs account with it. And this 
is explained within them. As you can see from the extract below:
Selftrade has also told us we are the stockbroker/holder of the assets which are held in a 
pooled nominee and treated at the 15% WHT rate. We have no obligation to apply a 0% 
WHT rate for SIPP holdings, we do not advertise/promise or say that a SIPP held with us will 
receive the 0% tax treatment on US holdings. While other brokers/services offer the 0% rate 
this doesnt mean EQi are required to do so.
And the terms and conditions that apply to Mr Hs account back this up. I note that Selftrade 
cannot tell us when Mr H agreed to these terms and conditions  as his account migrated 
across to it. But its told us as part of the migration to continue using the service customers 
were required to agree to these terms. As Mr H has clearly continued to use the account, Im 
satisfied that he did agree to these terms and conditions. Selftrade has sent us two copies of 
its terms and conditions that span the years in question and both sets have this same term 
referred to above.
Mr H has said if there was a reason that the tax shouldve applied that Selftrade had a duty 
of care to tell him that he would be at a disadvantage using their services compared to other 
stockbrokers. But I disagree, I dont think its reasonable to expect a business to point out to 
its potential customers what other businesses may offer that they dont. And Selftrade was 
appointed by Mr H as an execution only trading service, it had no obligation to give advice 
on investments or any tax implications. Whilst I appreciate it may be difficult and costly for 
Mr H to reclaim the tax himself, Selftrade doesnt have to offer a 0% withholding tax service 
and I cant see that Mr H ever enquired about this before he made the investments in 
question.
So in conclusion, whilst I appreciate why Mr H is unhappy, Selftrade hasnt made an error. 
Ive seen no evidence to say that it should offer the 0% rate. Or that it told Mr H it would do 
so. So I dont think it has been unfair or unreasonable in applying Withholding tax to Mr Hs 
US securities held with it.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman