DRN-2290703
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) have handled a claim for 
subsidence under his household insurance policy
 
What happened
In August 2018 Mr Ps insurance broker contacted Allianz to report cracking observed by a 
tenant in a property he owned.
Allianz accepted the claim in September 2018 and advised monitoring would be undertaken 
to September 2019. Soil samples were taken, and the likely cause of the subsidence was 
identified as a hedge to the front boundary of the property and a tree growing outside the 
boundary on the pavement. And the proposed course of action to stabilise the property was 
to remove the hedge and prune the tree.
Mr P was unhappy with the approach taken to attempt to stabilise the property and the time 
taken to resolve his concerns. So, in May 2019 he complained to Allianz. He felt 
underpinning was required and provided expert reports. He also raised concerns at the loss 
of rent hed suffered. 
In July 2019 Allianz sent its final response. It accepted thered been some delays and 
offered £200 to say sorry for this. But it didnt agree that underpinning was required. It 
pointed out that Mr Ps household policy didnt provide for loss of rent as it was intended to 
provide cover for home-owners and occupiers rather than landlord insurance for properties 
rented out. But agreed to consider loss of rent as a gesture of goodwill if it was evidenced. It 
offered to make temporary repairs to ensure the property remained safe and watertight 
whilst the cause of the subsidence was mitigated.
Mr P wasnt satisfied with Allianzs response and after further correspondence with it he 
brought his complaint to this service in December 2019.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both parties and issued her view in May 
2020. She said all the reports agreed that vegetation was a significant cause of the 
movement to the property. And added that she wouldve been surprised had removing and 
pruning vegetation not been the recommended course of action in this claim.  She also said 
that ground movement monitoring since the vegetation was removed appeared to show the 
ground has now settled.
Mr P wasnt happy with this view and has provided additional evidence and testimony to us 
and Allianz.   
In October 2020 our investigator ultimately concluded the evidence suggested the reduction 
of vegetation had been effective in stabilizing the property, with no further downward 
movement recorded. So, the plan put forward by Allianz wasnt unreasonable. She noted 
that Allianz had said it would carry out a further treatment to a hedge to prevent further 
growth but that Mr P had declined this offer. She felt it would be reasonable to allow Allianz 
to treat the hedge again.
Mr P remained unhappy and has asked that an ombudsman decide his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has made considerable submissions in bringing this complaint. Ive considered these 
and have looked at everything hes sent in, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. So 
if I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence it isnt because Ive not seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel its necessary to reference it to explain my decision. 
I hope Mr P doesnt take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of 
our service.
There are three main issues for me to decide: how Allianz has handled the subsidence claim 
and the proposed way to settle it; the issue of loss of rent; and an increased subsidence 
excess for future events.
Loss of rent
 Mr P has raised concerns over a reduction in rental income hes receiving from the property 
as a result of the subsidence. Under the policy terms and conditions there is no contractual 
duty for Allianz to pay anything in respect of loss of rent as Mr P took out is a domestic 
household insurance policy, not landlords insurance. 
However, Ive seen that Allianz say it will consider this even though Mr P is not insured for 
this and Im satisfied thats a generous outcome. This offer by Allianz is made without 
prejudice and is effectively a gesture of goodwill. Allianz has asked that Mr P provide 
evidence of his loss and I find thats a fair and reasonable request. Its worth Mr P noting that 
he doesnt have insurance cover under this policy for loss of rent so the way Allianz has 
dealt with this aspect is far beyond what is contractually required.
Subsidence excess
Since bringing his complaint to us Mr P has expressed his dissatisfaction at an increase in 
the excess for subsidence claims that hes now faced with on his policy. These concerns 
should be addressed to Allianz by Mr P so that it can give a final answer if its still an issue. 
The proposed settlement for subsidence damage
Since our investigator issued their opinion Mr P has provided a general structural inspection 
report carried out by a firm of chartered engineers and building surveys on 8 January 2021. 
The report was sent to us in early February 2021, and a copy was provided to Allianz. 
The report says the movement to the building appears to be ongoing and it may be prudent 
to consider underpinning. Im mindful the report is based on a single visit to the property. No 
monitoring has been carried by the author and it doesnt provide evidence of ongoing 
downward movement. The report also mentions that the damage is possibly tree-root 
induced clay shrinkage and recommends that the shrubs in the front garden would ideally be 
reduced and chemically treated. Im aware Allianz has reduced theses shrubs and offered to 
carry out further treatment to them. Ive also seen previous reports provided by Mr P suggest underpinning is appropriate but 
these dont give detailed information as to why this approach must be taken. One of the 
reports also acknowledges that vegetation could be the cause of the subsidence.
With regard to the general condition of the property the latest report highlights a number of 
defects and maintenance issues, including damp, missing tiles, damage from an escape of 
water and mortar that requires repointing. And Mr P has described the property as 
dilapidated in an email to Allianz dated 11 December 2019. From the pictures Ive seen I 
would agree with this description but am not persuaded the subsidence is the cause of all 
the damage.
Monitoring reports, which detail evidence of movement in the property, provided by Allianz 
suggest the property is now stable. Having weighed the evidence of the expert reports 
provided by both parties Im more persuaded that the movement has stabilised. And Im 
satisfied the approach taken by Allianz is reasonable in achieving a lasting and effective 
repair in the circumstances of this case.
Mr P has advised that there was a subsidence claim on the rear of the property nearly 30 
years ago and that this was remedied by underpinning. And he said in his many years of 
professional experience it was usual for underpinning to take place in these situations. So I 
can understand why he might think that underpinning is the solution to the problem hes 
experiencing at the front of the house. However, there are a number of ways of achieving 
stability and a cautious approach, such as recommended by Allianz, is not uncommon.
In Summary, Allianz has said it will carry out repairs to the superstructure that relate to 
subsidence now that the property is stable, which Im satisfied it is. And it will carry out 
further treatments to vegetation within Mr Ps boundary. That is an appropriate, fair and 
reasonable way forward and so its now for Mr P to decide if hell permit these works to be 
carried out and let Allianz know. 
For the avoidance doubt I do not require Allianz to address the numerous issues with the 
general maintenance and standard of repair of the building highlighted in the report dated 8 
January 2021. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman