DRN-1119272
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs M complain that Topaz Finance Limited (trading as Rosolite Mortgages) have 
declined to issue them with a statement in Mrs Ms sole name for their joint mortgage.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs M have a joint mortgage and contacted their mortgage company asking for a 
mortgage statement to be sent to them in Mrs Ms sole name. The mortgage was initially 
with another lender and had recently moved to be with Rosolite Mortgages. Mr C said that 
his request was initially agreed with the previous lender but was then declined by Rosolite 
Mortgages
Mr C said it was very important the statement was issued in Mrs Ms sole name, to prove 
she was paying the mortgage on her own over the last 18 months. 
Mr C raised a complaint with Rosolite Mortgages, who contacted Mr C to make him aware 
that it was something they couldnt do. Rosolite Mortgages said it was their duty to provide 
customers with information that was clear, fair and not misleading. They said sending a 
statement in only Mrs Ms name, would be misleading as the account is in joint names. 
Because of this Rosolite said it wouldnt comply with the regulators (the Financial Conduct 
Authority) rules and guidelines. Mr C wasnt happy with their response and brought the 
complaint to us.
Our investigator reviewed everything and didnt think Rosolite Mortgages had done anything 
wrong. Mr C and Mrs M didnt agree, they said it was important to get the mortgage 
statement in Mrs Ms name only to show shed been paying for the mortgage by herself. 
As Mr C and Mrs M didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C said hed originally requested the mortgage statement in Mrs Ms sole name from their 
previous lender, and theyd agreed to provide it. As the previous lender is a different 
business, I havent considered the actions of it here. In this decision Im only considering the 
actions of Rosolite Mortgages with regard to Mr Cs request. 
Ive considered whether Rosolite Mortgages has done anything wrong in declining to send 
the joint mortgage statement in Mrs Ms sole name. Rosolite Mortgages have a responsibility 
as a financial business to follow the rules set by the regulator. One of the rules set by the 
regulator says businesses must provide information which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Rosolite Mortgages has said that providing a mortgage statement in Mrs Ms sole name 
would be misleading as its a joint mortgage.  Mrs M said she needs the mortgage statement to prove shes been paying the mortgage 
herself. The mortgage statement wouldnt show whos paying the mortgage, just that its 
been paid. Mrs M would be able to show how shes been contributing to the mortgage 
payment herself with the statement from the account the payments have come from.
A joint mortgage statement is an important document and should provide an accurate 
reflection of the account.  By changing it to show the account being in a sole name when its 
a joint account, wouldnt be accurate. Im therefore satisfied Rosolite Mortgages hasnt done 
anything wrong by declining Mr C's request. I therefore wont be instructing Rosolite 
Mortgages to do anything different. 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
 
Constance Chinhengo
Ombudsman