The complaint
Mrs M says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about one running account credit facility Sunny provided to Mrs M between 
November 2013 and April 2014. The facility allowed Mrs M to borrow up to £500 with an 
initial minimum monthly repayment of around £179.60 for five months should she drawdown 
the maximum amount.  Mrs M initially borrowed £150 and continued to make seven further 
drawdowns before previous drawdowns were repaid. 
Mrs M repaid the facility in June 2015, over a year after her last drawdown. Mrs M initially 
took out £150 and within three weeks had borrowed over £500. Drawdowns 4 to 8 happened 
within a few weeks of repaying a similar amount so her account remained at around £500 
and above until April 2014. It seems from then Sunny stopped charging interest and Mrs M 
began monthly repayments of around £50 before eventually repaying her debt in June 2015.
Mrs Ms facility drawdown history is as follows:
Drawdown 
number Date of 
drawdownDrawdown 
amount 
1. 5/11/13 £150
2. 29/11/13 £325
3. 1/12/13 £99.05
4. 1/1/14 £83.15
5. 15/2/14 £56.87
6. 11/3/14 £62.07
7. 26/3/14 £68.71
8. 30/4/14 £75
DRN-1778122In its final response letter Sunny said that it had checked whether the amount required under 
the facility was affordable assuming that Mrs M would drawdown the full credit limit amount.  
It said that if the amount of the drawdown required constituted a significant proportion of a 
consumers declared income, the application was declined. It had also checked that there 
were no detrimental factors on Mrs Ms credit file. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. He said that 
considering Mrs Ms low income of £760 and the length of the credit agreement, 
proportionate checks would have shown that Mrs M was having problems managing her 
money. Sunny would have become aware that Mrs M had a payday loan when she applied 
for the loan and that she was in a debt management plan. He had seen her bank statements 
which showed this. So Sunny should have realised that it was unlikely that Mrs M could 
sustainably repay her drawdowns.
Sunny disagreed and responded to say that using bank statements at that stage of lending 
wouldnt have been proportionate. Mrs M had fulfilled the requirements needed to provide 
her with one of its loans. There was no information to suggest that borrowing was 
unsustainable for her at that stage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When Sunny lent to Mrs M the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG). The ILG 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. The OFT also had an expectation 
that a lender would review and monitor how a borrower was using a credit facility.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the ILG defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
I would have expected Sunny to make proportionate checks when assessing the maximum 
credit limit on the facility. Id also have expected Sunny to have monitored Mrs Ms 
repayment record and taken appropriate action where there were signs of possible 
difficulties in line with the ILG.
Sunny said that it asked Mrs M for information about her income when she applied for her 
running credit facility. Sunny recorded a figure of £760 for Mrs Ms monthly income. Ive 
looked at Sunnys Loan Datasheet and there appears to be no information about Mrs Ms 
expenditure. 
Sunny has provided us with very little information about its credit checks. It said there was 
no evidence of bankruptcy, individual voluntary arrangements or debt management plans. 
Weve not received a credit report from Mrs M. So I cant say whether there was any adverse 
information on the file which I think should have caused additional concerns to Sunny. 
But Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit search, the information it sees doesnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So this may explain any 
differences between the information provided by Sunnys credit checks and Mrs Ms actual 
situation.
Mrs M has sent us her bank statements from the time. The adjudicator said that these 
showed Mrs M had a debt management plan (DMP) and another payday loan. But I noted 
that the statements were in the joint names of Mrs M and her husband so I couldnt be sure 
that the DMP and the payday loan had been taken out by Mrs M. So I asked the adjudicator 
to ask Mrs M if she had taken these out. Mrs M said that the DMP was in the joint names of 
her husband and herself. She had also taken out two payday loans which would have been 
repayable at the same time as the credit facility. 
The largest repayment on the facility was £180 if Mrs M borrowed the maximum credit 
permitted. I think this was a significant proportion of Mrs Ms declared income of £760 and 
should have caused Sunny concerns. So I think that Sunnys checks needed to go further 
and that it should have independently checked Mrs Ms financial situation before giving her 
the credit facility. Sunny said in response to the adjudicators view that it wouldnt be proportionate to look at 
bank statements at this early point in a lending relationship. To be clear, Im not suggesting 
that Sunny ought to have done so  the regulations were and are not prescriptive about what 
checks a lender ought to do  but, in the circumstances of this case where the repayments 
took up such a large proportion of Mrs Ms relatively low income, I think that Sunny ought to 
have gathered information about her expenses and I also think that it wouldnt have been fair 
of the lender to rely on what she might have said without verifying it. 
I would normally look at the borrowers bank statements to see what proportionate checks 
would likely have shown. Having seen Mrs Ms bank statements for the month before the 
facility was granted, I think that proportionate checks would most likely have shown Sunny 
that Mrs M was having problems managing her money. There were enough indications of 
unsustainability for it to decline the loan, especially bearing in mind that the scheduled 
repayments were expected to be repaid over five months. I think Mrs Ms subsequent 
problems repaying this facility were foreseeable and I dont think a responsible lender would 
have considered it to be sustainable. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint I order 
Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to:-
1. Refund all interest and charges Mrs M paid on capital drawn down through her credit
facility;
2. Pay interest on all these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the date of payment
to the date of settlement; and
3. Remove any adverse information about the credit facility from Mrs Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman