DRN-2979668
The complaint
Mrs E complains about the administration of her mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc (trading 
as Birmingham Midshires). 
What happened
Mrs E had a mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. The mortgage fell into arrears and the 
property was taken into possession and sold in 2015. 
Mrs E raised a number of concerns. An ombudsman issued a decision setting out what parts 
of the complaints raised by Mrs E we can look into. In summary, he said we can look into 
Mrs Es complaints about:
Birmingham Midshires failing to keep appointments;
Mrs Es concerns regarding a five-figure payment to hold legal action (which she says 
resulted in Count Court Judgments with other creditors); and
Her solicitors stopping work for her due to non-payment.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs E didnt agree, and so 
the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the final stage of 
our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E has explained the upsetting and difficult events shes had to deal with. Im sorry for the 
circumstances she describes. What I must do here though is consider whether Birmingham 
Midshires made an error or treated Mrs E unfairly when dealing with her mortgage. 
Mrs E has said that the circumstances around the payment she made in September 2013 is 
the main part of her complaint. And so Ill deal with that first. A family member has also dealt 
with Mrs Es mortgage on her behalf, but for ease Ill only refer to Mrs E here.
Mrs Es concerns regarding a five-figure payment to hold legal action (which she says 
resulted in Count Court Judgments with other creditors)
Mrs E made a payment to Birmingham Midshires in September 2013. She says this was all 
of the funds she had available, which meant she couldnt pay other creditors or her solicitors. 
Mrs E says Birmingham Midshires said if she made this payment it would stop legal action 
and allow her time to sell her property. Mrs E has explained that she had plans to develop 
the property, to convert an outbuilding, divide the property into flats and/or possibly build 
another house on the site. Mrs E says she saw the payment as an investment, to stop legal 
action and allow time to carry out these plans, or at least get planning consents to increase 
the value of the property. Or she might have been able to rent out the property. She says 
she wouldnt have made the payment if shed known the court order for possession would 
remain in place, and legal action would re-start.
Birmingham Midshires says it told Mrs E the court order would remain in place after the 
payment and its notes support this. It says it did stop action after receiving the payment, 
which reduced the arrears below the level where it would take action. Unfortunately, Mrs Es 
account fell into arrears (or further into arrears) again and Birmingham Midshires re-started 
legal action. While I appreciate how upsetting this must have been, Birmingham Midshires 
was entitled to take action under the court order to recover the debt that was owed. 
Mrs E says she paid the amount Birmingham Midshires said was needed to clear the 
arrears, and its not her fault if this was wrong. Id note though that Mrs E has also said the 
payment she made in September 2013 was all the funds she had available. And Birmingham 
Midshires notes say that she was unable to pay all of the arrears and intended to pay the 
small remaining balance when she could. Most likely then this was the largest payment 
Mrs E was able to make in an attempt to avoid the property being taken into possession. 
Mrs E says Birmingham Midshires mis-calculated the arrears and account balances and 
didnt send her copies of her mortgage statements so that she could look into this. She sent 
a spreadsheet showing her own calculations. She also said Birmingham Midshires failed to 
respond when she had offers to buy the property or rent it out. As these matters werent part 
of the complaint brought to us, I cant look into them here. 
County Court Judgements from other creditors
Mrs E says as a result of making the payment to Birmingham Midshires in September 2013 
she had county court judgements from other creditors. This must have been an upsetting 
situation. But Birmingham Midshires isnt responsible for the actions of Mrs Es other 
creditors.
Mrs Es solicitor stopped work due to non-payment
Mrs E was unable to pay her solicitors, and they stopped working for her. I think this is a 
matter between Mrs E and her solicitor, and not something Birmingham Midshires is 
responsible for.
Birmingham Midshires failed to keep appointments
Mrs E says she sent letters which Birmingham Midshires acknowledged receiving, but said it 
wouldnt respond to. She says she proposed meetings, and offered to travel to its offices, 
which it declined. Birmingham Midshires says the team dealing with Mrs Es account is call 
centre based and cant arrange meetings. I havent seen evidence that Birmingham 
Midshires made or agreed to appointments which it failed to keep. While Mrs E says she 
asked to deal with everything in writing to avoid misunderstandings, Birmingham Midshires 
says it doesnt have a record of this. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Birmingham Midshires failed to keep 
appointments with Mrs E.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman