DRN-3197500
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the service she received after she contacted Madison CF UK Limited 
trading as 118 118 Money to request a payment holiday due to the Covid-19 pandemic. She 
says the result of taking the payment holiday was that her loan was restructured and she 
was charged more interest. She asked 118 118 Money if she could cancel the payment 
holiday and go back to her original arrangement, but it said that wasnt possible.
What happened
Mrs D entered into a loan agreement with 118 118 Money in September 2020 with a term of 
24 months. The account was well maintained and payments were up to date when Mrs D 
contacted 118 118 Money in January 2021 to ask for a three-month payment holiday. She 
used the online chat service to contact 118 118 Money. The payment holiday wasnt put in 
place during the chat. It was left that 118 118 Money would send Mrs D an SMS message 
within two working days so that she could complete the request online. 
The message wasnt sent within the two days and Mrs D had to chase it up. She received 
the message around six days later. It came through in the evening and said THIS IS YOUR 
LAST CHANCE. If you fail to sign and accept the restructured loan agreement today, you 
risk falling into arrears which will be reported to credit reference agencies and may damage 
your credit score because your Temporary Payment Freeze will not be active. The message 
contained a link to the documents. 
Mrs D says she found the tone of the message threatening. She says it made her panic, so 
she clicked the link and signed the agreement. She says it wasnt until the next day that she 
realised how the arrangement would work and that it would cost her more in interest. She 
wanted to go back to her previous arrangement and not take the payment holiday. She 
called 118 118 Money, but it said that wasnt possible.
The effect of taking the payment holiday here was that Mrs Ds loan was restructured. A new 
loan account was opened with a term which will finish three months after the original loan 
term. So, instead of the loan coming to an end in September 2022, it will end in December 
2022. Thats so that the three payments which werent made during the payment holiday can 
be made. 118 118 Money continued to charge interest during the payment holiday. So, 
taking the payment holiday means that Mrs D has to pay more interest overall than was due 
under the original agreement. In order for the higher amount to be repaid within the new 
term, Mrs Ds monthly repayments are now higher than they were originally. 
Mrs D complained to 118 118 Money, saying she wanted to go back to her original 
agreement. It didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the documents it sent her clearly 
explained that her loan would be restructured. It said it also made clear that it would charge 
interest during the payment holiday and that this would affect her monthly repayments. It 
said it wasnt possible to cancel the new agreement, as the original loan had already been 
settled and closed and the new loan had been set up. 118 118 Money said that Mrs D could 
withdraw from the new agreement within the cooling-off period. But that would have meant 
paying off the full amount of credit within 30 days and Mrs D wasnt in a position to do that.
Mrs D asked this service to look at the complaint. Our Adjudicator thought that 118 118 
Money had acted fairly here. But Mrs D didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. She says its unreasonable that she couldnt cancel the 
restructured loan and go back to her original arrangement, even though she contacted 118 
118 Money within 24 hours of signing the new agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think 118 118 Money acted unfairly here. Ill explain why.
When Mrs D first contacted 118 118 Money through the chat service in January 2021, the 
agent started the conversation by saying I need to let you know that any payment holiday 
we may be able to offer will incur interest therefore your monthly payments will increase 
when payment begins again. This will therefore cost you more overall to repay your loan. 
Would you still like to proceed?. Mrs D replied, Yes please.
During the chat, the agent said that Mrs D wouldnt see the exact amount of the increased 
repayments until she logged in through the link which would be sent to her. He said that Mrs 
D would need to sign a new agreement and that the actual repayment figure would be on the 
second page after Mrs D clicked the link. But he provided some example figures, showing 
that the increased monthly payment could be as much as £451. I note that the actual amount 
set out in the new agreement was less than this, but still more than the original repayments.
118 118 Money accepts that the agent could have provided further clarity about the 
restructuring of the loan. I think thats a fair comment. But the agent did tell Mrs D that 
interest would be charged for the payment holiday, that her monthly payments would 
increase, that it would cost her more overall and that she would need to sign a new 
agreement. So I think he told her the key pieces of information. 
Even though the agent hadnt explained the details of what would happen to the account 
itself, I think he told her what was necessary at that stage for her to know what the overall 
effect of taking the payment holiday would be. She confirmed that she wanted to proceed 
with the enquiry. At that stage, she wasnt committing to any changes and the documents 
setting out the detail were going to be sent to her. 
The new loan agreement and related documents were sent to Mrs D by SMS nearly a week 
later. Im satisfied that these documents explained clearly that the loan would be restructured 
and how this would work. The new term, amount of interest and monthly repayments were 
also set out. The right of withdrawal (requiring repayment of the full amount of credit within 
30 days) was also set out in the documents. I think 118 118 Money gave Mrs D enough 
information for her to be able to decide whether taking the payment holiday and accepting 
the restructured loan was the right choice for her.
Ive thought about what Mrs D says about the message she received being threatening and 
how it panicked her into accepting the new terms. I think the wording of the message was 
unfortunate and it did create a sense of urgency. But Mrs D didnt have to sign the new 
agreement if the arrangement wasnt right for her. 118 118 Money had provided enough 
information for her to be able to make this decision. So I think its fair to say that the onus 
was on Mrs D to read through it and be sure she was happy with it before signing. 
If Mrs D didnt want to accept the new arrangement but was concerned that she couldnt 
meet the existing loan repayments, I think there were other options which she could have explored. During the online chat, the agent had said If you decided not to proceed but still 
dont think you can meet your monthly commitment please call us back and we can work 
with you to discuss additional payment options and come to a solution that best fits your 
circumstances. The agent had told her that he had placed a hold on her account until 19 
February 2021 to give her time to complete the payment holiday request. So I dont think she 
had to rush to accept the restructured loan and I think there was an opportunity for her to 
explore other options with 118 118 Money.
I realise Mrs D feels strongly about her complaint and Im sorry to disappoint her. But, for the 
reasons above, I dont think 118 118 Money acted unfairly. And, even though Mrs D called 
within 24 hours of signing the agreement, I dont think its unreasonable that 118 118 Money 
couldnt undo the new arrangement because of the way the loan worked. So Im not going to 
ask it to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman