DRN-1399478
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, for the following reasons:
Mr Gs credit card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It offered 
him the option to take PPI or turn it down, with neither option being pre-selected. The box to 
decline PPI was left blank, whereas the box to buy PPI was ticked. And Mr G signed below 
specifically for PPI  separately to signing for the credit card as a whole. And I think it 
wouldve been clear what he was signing for.
When Mr G first complained in 2013 and 2014, he said he had no recollection of the sales 
process taking place, didnt remember discussing PPI, and didnt know it had been taken 
out. He now says he went into the branch to make a monthly payment and was taken aside 
and coerced by three staff members into having PPI, despite him insisting he didnt want it. 
But Mr G took out the PPI when he first applied for the credit card, not when he made a 
monthly payment. And this is very different from what he said when he first complained  
which was much closer in time to the event in question.
Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened. Here, Ive not seen any 
wider problems with Barclays sales process from the time. And what Mr Gs told us doesnt 
seem to fit with how the PPI was added, or how Barclays conducted their sales, or what he 
said before. What Mr Gs told us is very unusual, and importantly, I have no evidence which 
substantiates it. Indeed, from the evidence I do have from the sale, it looks like Mr G was 
given a fair choice about whether hed like PPI, and he chose it at the time, signing 
specifically to confirm his choice. So while I appreciate that Mr G has given us his best 
recollections, I think its most likely that Barclays made it clear he didnt have to take out PPI 
and that Mr G chose to take it.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr G, so it had to check that the policy was right for him  
and based on what hes told us of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr G was eligible for the cover. Mr G said he had not been diagnosed 
with any pre-existing medical conditions at the time of the sale. He did have back problems 
at some point, but it doesnt look like this had been diagnosed at the time, and he said these 
problems didnt cause him to take any time off work. So it seems Mr G was not significantly 
affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. Further, Mr G only had very 
limited work benefits and savings, and the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and 
covered him for much longer. So it looks like the policy couldve been useful for Mr G in case 
he was off sick or lost his job.Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. Here, it looks like Mr G chose to take out the policy, which indicates he wanted this 
type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like he was significantly affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful for Mr G in case something 
went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr G could cancel it at any 
time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put him off taking it out. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because Barclays didnt tell him, 
that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman