DRN-2064774
The complaint
Ms Ps unhappy about The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limiteds 
(NFU) decision to decline her claim made on a horse and rider insurance policy.
What happened
Briefly, Ms P took out an annually renewable policy some years ago which she renewed 
each year. Ms P attempted to make a claim on the policy in 2019 because, sadly, one of the 
horses covered by the policy fell ill and had to be put to sleep. 
NFU assessed the claim and decided not to pay it. That was because Ms Ps horse had 
been classed by it as a veteran since 2016, which in turn meant the horse was only covered 
if it died or was put to sleep due to an accident. As there was no indication an accident had 
occurred, NFU believed it was entitled to decline the claim.
Ms P was extremely unhappy with NFUs decision and ultimately complained to us. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. They 
considered that NFU had declined the claim fairly.
Ms P didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is for me to explain what the policy terms say NFU will and wont cover. 
Most relevantly to this case, the policy said NFU would pay certain costs if, among other 
things, a veteran horse died or was put to sleep due to an accident. Among other things, the 
policy said it wouldnt pay for claims arising from an illness, disease or condition. 
Its not in dispute that Ms Ps horse was a veteran or that the horse wasnt put to sleep due 
to an accident. So, on the face of it, the claim isnt payable as per the policy terms.
Ms Ps argument isnt so much that NFUs incorrectly interpreted or applied the policy terms. 
Its more that NFU didnt explain to her that, by the time of the policy renewal in 2016 or 
subsequently, the level of cover applying to Ms Ps horse changed and meant only losses 
caused by accident were covered. She says that, had she known about the change in cover, 
shed have considered her options including the possibility of cancelling the policy and taking 
her business elsewhere.
Ive looked carefully at the policy renewal paperwork NFU sent Ms P from 2015 onwards. 
And I agree with her that the change in cover could, initially at least, have been made 
clearer. For example, I can see that all the horses were on the standard level of cover in 
2015 according to the statement of insurance and schedule. By the time of the renewal in 
2016, the statement of insurance and schedule showed Ms Ps horse was now classed as a 
veteran whereas the other horses covered by the policy remained on the standard level of 
cover. The renewal papers from 2017 again showed that Ms Ps horse was classed as a 
veteran and the others as standard. But its difficult to argue the change in cover was 
adequately brought to Ms Ps attention.
The renewal paperwork from 2018 included information that, in my view, was clearer and 
more specific to Ms P. It included confirmation that her horse was classed a veteran, just as 
in 2016 and 2017. But the first page of the cover letter also explained:
Your cover has changed
Once animals reach the age of 25, we reduce the cover we offer to veteran. This 
means that cover is provided in respect of accidents only. Further details of the 
restricted cover for veterans can be found in your Policy Booklet. 
I realise that Ms P says she spoke to NFU over the phone more than once prior to her claim 
and wasnt told at any stage that it had reduced the level of cover. Overall, I dont dispute 
that NFU could have made the change clearer to her at an earlier stage. 
That said, I believe that NFU did provide Ms P with sufficient information about the change at 
the renewal in 2018 at least  the information was sent more than two months before the 
renewal date. And that, if Ms P was unhappy as a result, it was open for her at that time or 
subsequently to negotiate the terms of the policy with NFU or cancel the policy. That didnt 
happen until after she tried to make her claim in 2019 and it was declined. In the 
circumstances, I dont have enough reason to think Ms P would have acted any differently 
had the reduction in cover been made clearer in 2016 or 2017.
Taking everything into account, and while I appreciate Ms Ps strength of feeling about the 
matter, I dont consider that NFUs caused her to lose out.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman