DRN-4210500
The complaint
Mr H says that HSBC UK Bank Plc, who Ill call HSBC, were wrong to default his loan 
account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I dont think HSBC have been unreasonable here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When Mr H called HSBC and an agreement was reached to extend his token payment plan 
of £30 per month towards his debt, the agent wrongly told him that a default notice and final 
demand wouldnt be issued.
Mr H says he didnt notice that the standing order the agent had told him was coming out of 
his account wasnt being taken. I understand that may have been the case given the 
relatively modest sum involved.
But a few days after Mr Hs call with HSBC in June 2022 they did send him a default letter. 
That default notice said:
Thank you for getting in touch about making lower monthly payments - we encourage you to 
pay what you can afford, but unfortunately these payments aren't enough to pay off the 
overdue amount within a reasonable time. And the letter went on to explain the account 
would be defaulted unless the arrears were paid off.
As Mr H had been told he wouldnt be issued with a default notice and as the default notice 
explained his token payments werent enough, I think it would have been reasonable for 
Mr H to have contacted HSBC at that point and question why he had received a default 
notice.
Ive considered whether that would have changed anything, but I dont think it would have. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says when a consumer is at least three 
months behind with their payments then a default may be registered. And it would expect a 
default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. 
Generally speaking, were likely to take a similar view as the ICO whilst considering what 
was fair in the individual circumstances of the complaint. We think it wouldnt be fair if the 
business didnt record the default by the time the consumer is between three and six months 
in arrears, as by this point itd be clear they werent able to make their contractual payments. 
When a consumer is only able to make token repayments towards a debt the creditor is 
entitled to continue with its usual collections and recoveries process and treat the account in 
default if it is sufficiently in arrears. So, while HSBC may have made a mistake when 
explaining a default wouldnt be applied they didnt need to stand by that mistake, and if they 
had I think theyd likely be in conflict with the ICOs guidance, as theyd be allowing the debt 
to persist when the evidence suggested Mr H was unlikely to be able to meet his contractual 
obligations and he was already over six months in arrears.
But its only fair that HSBC compensate Mr H for the mistake it made as the mistake has 
clearly caused Mr H some distress and inconvenience. HSBC paid Mr H £150 
compensation, and, in the circumstances, I think that was reasonable.
Mr H has suggested there were other calls with HSBC after the account was defaulted that 
could assist with this investigation, but Ive not been provided with those calls and dont think 
theyd be likely to be helpful. Theres no dispute that the account was significantly in arrears 
and that in those circumstances HSBC would be expected to default the account and Im 
satisfied they have compensated Mr H sufficiently for the poor advice they provided.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman