DRN-2297732
The complaint
Mr Q says Fund Ourselves Limited (trading as WeLendUs) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans WeLendUs provided to Mr Q between August 
2018 and September 2018. Mr Q first borrowed £250 to be repaid in two instalments, with 
the highest being £183.41. He repaid this loan and then borrowed £400 to be repaid in three 
instalments, the highest being £223.85. Mr Q changed this loan to six instalments, with the 
highest being £131.19. Mr Q repaid both his loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Qs complaint should be upheld. Mr Q disagreed 
and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. Mr Q said a credit check would 
have found defaults and other borrowing that should have suggested that he was having 
financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
WeLendUs needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr Q 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that WeLendUs should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that WeLendUs was required to establish 
whether Mr Q could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Qs complaint.
WeLendUs asked Mr Q for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out a 
credit check. Mr Q said his monthly income was £2,019. He said his monthly outgoings were 
£1,362. From what I can see, the credit check WeLendUs carried out didnt show anything 
untoward that should have prompted further checks. I can see that the credit check found 
that Mr Q had several defaults in the previous twelve months, but I dont think this was a 
sufficient reason for WeLendUs not to lend to him. 
I think these checks were proportionate and sufficient for Mr Qs two loans. Given the loan 
amounts, what was apparent about Mr Qs circumstances at the time and his history with 
WeLendUs, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount of 
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the 
information Mr Q provided or the information WeLendUs shouldve been aware of, which 
meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr Q was saying. 
The loan repayments looked affordable compared to Mr Qs stated disposable income. So I 
cant say that WeLendUs was wrong to have approved these two loans.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or reject 
my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman