DRN-3240722
The complaint
Mr Os complaint is about shares he bought from Templeton Securities (at the time an 
appointed representative of Alexander David Securities Limited). Mr O says the shares 
werent suitable for him and Templeton Securities didnt act in his best interests.  
 
What happened
Ive considered Mr Os complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 18 November 
2021. Ive recapped what I said about what had happened and my provisional findings. 
Mr O has told us he was contacted out of the blue by an unregulated firm in early 2014. He
says it was a long time ago and he doesnt remember much. But he was told his pension
was frozen and not doing anything and profit could be boosted. He doesnt recall anything
being said about his attitude to risk or any discussion about investments. Mr O says he just
did as he was instructed. The unregulated firm then introduced him to another unregulated
firm who told him hed need to transfer his preserved benefits in a former employers pension
scheme to a self invested personal pension (SIPP).
The unregulated firm emailed Mr O on 19 February 2014. A page from a SIPP application
form was attached for Mr O to print out, compete in part and sign. There were a number of
questions to be answered with yes or no tick box and a section asking for a statement in
Mr Os own words as to the reason for establishing a SIPP on an execution only basis. The
unregulated adviser said, in his email, that Mr O should complete that section, which started,
The reason I want to establish a SIPP without the use of a Professional Financial Adviser
is:, by hand writing the following sentence: I do not feel the need for a financial adviser,
having looked into things myself. Mr O should insert his name in block capitals and add his
signature at the relevant section of the page and return the form. Mr O was also told: Dont
worry about the tick boxes Admin will do these.
Ive also seen that Mr O completed an application to open a trading account not with
Templeton Securities but with a different firm on 23 March 2014. But it seems that account
was never opened. Instead, as Ive set out below, an account was set up with Templeton
Securities.
The SIPP provider wrote to Mr O on 24 March 2014 confirming that the SIPP had been
established and enclosing copies of the terms and conditions, key features and a fee
schedule.
On 16 April 2014 £26,556.88 was transferred to the SIPP from Mr Os former employers
pension scheme.
Mr O completed Templeton Securities Private Client Portfolio Agreement and Application
Booklet on 9 May 2014. Under the heading What to expect as a client of Templeton
Securities it said:
We understand that individual client investment needs vary with differing goals and as an
independent stockbroker, Templeton Securities aim is to provide the best private client
investment service with clarity and vision whilst tailoring our advice to suit individual client
needs.
To understand your investment requirements and to create your personal portfolio, we will
need to know the details of your financial background and your plans for the future which will
enable us to advise a tailored solution to suit your aims and objectives. It is therefore
imperative that you fully complete this Application as failure to do so may mean that we are
unable to affect a suitable portfolio or offer an appropriate service.
And, under the heading Important information regarding your application it said that
Templeton Securities was required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(FSMA) to provide suitable investment advice and services, based on the information Mr O
provided about his circumstances.
Mr O had to fill out his personal details. In the section headed Important Financial
information the form said:
In order for us to properly assess your ability to bear investment risks in relation to the
services we provide, we need to understand the composition of your assets and liabilities,
and income and expenditure. We are required to take this into account when assessing the
suitability of our investment management service we provide.
Mr O indicated his total assets were £25,000. All of that was his pension plan. He had no
other savings or investments. He had short term liabilities of £8,000 making his net worth
£17,000. He was aged 47 and employed as a warehouse operative, earning £20,000 pa. He
lived in rented accommodation and his rent was £400 pm. He had a car loan which cost
£260 pm and was payable for another two years. His preferred level of investment risk was
medium and his investment objective capital growth with a time horizon of more than seven
years. He indicated he had some advisory broking investment experience. But he was a
novice in respect of equities, fixed interest and alternative assets. Intermediate (one to five
years) was indicated for funds.
If Mr O required copy information provided by Templeton Securities to be sent his financial
intermediaries (such as his independent financial adviser) he should add their details. Mr O
left that section blank.
Under Acceptance Form it said, amongst other things:
l/We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of
investments for me in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we have
received and which I agree to.
Ive referred below to what some of those term and conditions said.
The SIPP provider emailed Mr O on 22 May 2014 confirming his recent instruction to invest
in Templeton Securities and saying that £25,000 had been sent to them that day (although
from the SIPP statement Ive seen it looks like that money was sent on 20 May 2014).
Theres also an email sent on 22 May 2014 from Mr O to Templeton Securities. After giving
his name and reference details Mr O said:
I wish to invest £12,342.50 in Eligere investments plc (ELI) gxg listed securities with a 55
pence limit for T3 settlement.
I wish to invest £12,342.50 in Emmit Plc (EMT) aim listed securities with a £1.75 limit for T1
settlement.Please advise me via email when this has been transacted.
Mr O says he was told what to put in the email by the unregulated adviser. And Mr Os
representative has supplied a copy of an email from the same unregulated adviser to
another client instructing that client to copy and paste what the unregulated firms adviser
had written and then send it to a named individual at Templeton Securities. The wording
specified by the unregulated adviser is identical to that in the email sent by Mr O and relate
to the same two shares, although the amounts to be invested are different.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), issued a statement about the
promotion of shares in Emmit on 31 October 2014. It said it had been made aware that
individuals were being encouraged to transfer money from their work pension schemes into
SIPPs and use that money to buy shares in Emmit. It said some investors were being
offered cash back on their investments in Emmit of up to 30% of the transfer value, paid by
a third party, as an incentive to do this. Some investors appeared to have invested 100% of
their pension assets into Emmit shares and could suffer significant financial loss if theyd
done that without fully understanding what they were doing.
Trading of shares in Emmit was suspended in October 2014 and the shares were delisted in
May 2015.
Ive seen that the SIPP provider emailed Mr O on 12 November 2014 about his Emmit plc
shares. The email referred to the alert issued by the FCA and gave a link to the FCAs
website and said that trading had been suspended in the shares while the FCA investigated.
A valuation (as at 4 November 2014) was enclosed. It showed that Mr Os account with
Templeton Securities held 6,900 Emmit plc shares which had cost £12,291.94. The value
was shown as temporarily suspended but was given as zero, a loss of 100%. The valuation
also showed that Mr O held 22,000 shares in Eligere Investments plc. Theyd been bought
for £12,317.25 and were valued at £12,100, a loss of some 2%.
Theres a further email from the SIPP provider on 23 October 2015. It said trading of shares
in Emmit plc had been cancelled from AIM (the Alternative Investment Market) as of May
2015. That meant Mr Os investment in Emmit plc would continue to be valued at zero until
further notice. And, about Mr Os Eligere Investments plc shares, theyd been suspended
from trading in June 2015. And the exchange theyd been listed on, GXG Exchange, had
subsequently closed in August 2015. That meant that Mr Os investment would be valued at
zero until further notice.
Mr O, through his representative, complained to Alexander David on 8 May 2018. The basis
of the complaint was:
Mr O was a non sophisticated, low risk investor;
Hed been advised to invest in unregulated products and the risks of doing that
werent properly disclosed to him;
His risk profile hadnt been correctly identified;
His investments were currently illiquid;
Unnecessary charges and fees had been incurred;
The investments had been mis sold.
Mr O was seeking full repayment of the transfer values plus interest.
Alexander David/Templeton Securities didnt respond to the complaint and Mr Os
representative referred it to us.On his complaint form Mr O said something different to what he later told us. He said hed
made an on line application to open a SIPP and transfer his frozen pensions after doing
research online. A total of £52,556.88 was transferred to Templeton Securities who then
chose the investments and informed Mr O after the investments had been made. Mr O said
he only knew where his funds had been invested after he received the paperwork.
Mr O later told us that wasnt right. He hadnt done research on line but hed been cold
called. His SIPP and his account with Templeton Securities had been set up with the
assistance of the unregulated firm. And the investments had been made following the email
hed sent on 22 May 2014 on the unregulated advisers instruction.
Initially we didnt think the complaint should be upheld. The adjudicator said she was unable
to investigate how Mr Os SIPP had come to be set up and whether the transfer of the value
of his benefits from his former employers pension scheme to a SIPP had been suitable for
him. Shed looked into how the funds were transferred from the SIPP to Templeton
Securities to be invested in Eligere plc and Emmit plc. She said Mr O had sent an email to
Templeton Securities giving specific instructions for the investments. Templeton Securities
had consistently said the account wasnt set up to provide advice and no advice had been
given to Mr O. On the basis the share purchases had been execution only, she didnt uphold
the complaint.
Mr Os representative asked us to reconsider and pointed to another complaint which it said
was identical and which wed upheld.
We looked into things again and our investigator issued his view on 28 February 2020,
upholding the complaint. In summary he said that Mr O had emailed Templeton Securities
with investment instructions. As it was an execution only trade there was no requirement for
Templeton Securities to give advice. But Templeton Securities was bound by the regulators
Principles (Ive referred further to these below). Mr O was being guided by the unregulated
introducer. The wording of Mr Os email, given he apparently had no trading experience and
that the stocks to be purchased were high risk, shouldve caused Templeton Securities some
concern.
In addition, Mr O, as medium risk investor, was placing nearly all his pension fund in two
higher risk investments. Templeton Securities had apparently told the previous investigator it
had written to Mr O about the investments. That hadnt been confirmed. But, if so, it would
suggest Templeton Securities was concerned. And emails with exactly the same trade
instructions had been sent by multiple clients of Templeton Securities. That shouldve put
Templeton Securities on notice that someone other than Mr O was writing the emails and
instructing him on what to say and do. Had Templeton Securities properly assessed the
appropriateness of the service it was providing to Mr O it shouldve realised it wasnt
suitable.
We didnt hear from Templeton Securities in response to the investigators view. I can see
that, aside when we first received the complaint, we havent received information or
comments from Templeton Securities or Alexander David. But, as Templeton Securities
didnt accept the investigators findings, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We can consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to an act oromission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more listed activities, including regulated
activities (see Dispute Resolution (DISP) 2.3.1R).
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and
include advising on investments (article 53 RAO). And arranging deals in investments (article
25 RAO). So I can consider the complaint either about advice  or the omission to provide
advice. Or about arranging the purchase of the shares if it was an execution only sale.
Im required, under DISP 3.6.4R, in considering whats fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of the case, to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my decision on the
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in
the light of all the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The documentation and literature that was provided at the time that the Private Client
Portfolio account was opened with Templeton Securities clearly described it as providing an
advisory service. But the terms and conditions said that Templeton Securities was able to
accept execution only instructions in some circumstances. Ive considered whether
Templeton Securities acted correctly by accepting Mr Os email of 22 May 2014 as an
execution only instruction to purchase shares in Emmit plc and Eligere Investments plc. Ive
explained below, by reference to what I see as the central provisions from the terms and
conditions of Mr Os agreement with Templeton Securities, why Ive concluded that
Templeton Securities could accept an execution only instruction.
Clause 3 said:
3. The services we will provide
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though
you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that
you are not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in
a non-complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or product
investment recommendations [my emphasis]. Nothing in our literature or in these Terms &
Conditions should be treated as a solicitation or recommendation to buy, sell or maintain any
product. We will action all instructions on an execution-only basis. This means that we are
only able to act on the instructions that you provide. We cannot give you advice about what
instructions you should give us. You are responsible for the investment decisions that you
make when you engage our services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept
responsibility on a continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio.
Mr O hadnt been designated as an execution only client. And hed supplied information
about his investment objectives, financial circumstances and the degree of risk he was
prepared to accept. But, as Ive highlighted above, clause 3.1 provided for the situation
where, even though information had been given, it might be reasonable for Templeton
Securities to believe that Mr O wasnt expecting it to advise about the merits of a particular
transaction in a non complex financial instrument. In that scenario Templeton Securities
wouldnt make any recommendations.
Non complex wasnt defined. But I think, taking into account what COBS 10.4.1R said (as
Ive set out below), investments in Emmit and Eligere shares were non complex financialinstruments.
Clause 3.1 was echoed in clause 6, headed, Appropriateness.
6.1 In providing services other than investment advice management, we may be subject to
an obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the
contemplated product or service for you by determining whether you have the necessary
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the specific
type of product or service offered or demanded. In such circumstances, where on the basis
of information received we consider that the contemplated product or service is not
appropriate for you, we will provide you with a warning to that effect.
Applicable Regulation was defined as meaning FCA rules or any other rules of a relevant
regulatory authority or any other rules of a relevant Market and all other applicable laws,
rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
I think thats a reference to COBS 10. Ive considered that and in particular COBS 10.4
which is headed Assessing appropriateness: when it need not be done. COBS 10.4.1R (1)
said (at the time):
A firm is not required to ask its client to provide information or assess appropriateness if:
(a) the service only consists of execution and/or the reception and transmission
of client orders, with or without ancillary services, it relates to particular financial
instruments and is provided at the initiative of the client;
(b) the client has been clearly informed (whether the warning is given in a standardised
format or not) that in the provision of this service the firm is not required to assess the
suitability of the instrument or service provided or offered and that therefore he does not
benefit from the protection of the rules on assessing suitability; and
(c) the firm complies with its obligations in relation to conflicts of interest.
The particular financial instruments, referred to in subsection (a), are set out in COBS
10.4.1R (2) and include shares admitted to trading on a regulated market (for example, AIM).
I think (a) is satisfied. I havent seen anything to suggest there was any conflict of interest as
mentioned in (c). But I dont think (b) was met. Templeton Securities has pointed to its terms
and conditions (see, for example, clause 6.4 mentioned below). But, while a warning in
standardised form was permitted, I think (b) requires a warning to be given at the time of the
particular service. It says, in the provision of this [my emphasis] service. That means a
specific warning (albeit that in might be in a standardised format) has to be given at the time.
And thats consistent with Templeton Securities own terms and conditions  see clause 6.4
which says:
Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular transaction
if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that transaction, you are not
expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-only basis. Where the transaction
relates to noncomplex financial instruments such as shares, bonds and UCITS, we will
inform you at the time [my emphasis] that we will execute your order on that basis and we
will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or appropriate for you. Please
note therefore, that you will not benefit from the protection of the relevant FCA Rules
requiring us to assess the suitability or appropriateness of the transaction for you.
I cant see that Templeton Securities gave Mr O the requisite warning at the time. That said,
I dont think much turns on that. I dont think a failure to give a warning at the time (asrequired by COBS 10.4.1R and Templetons own terms and conditions) means that
Templeton Securities couldnt accept an execution only instruction from Mr O. I think the
more important question is whether, as clause 6.4 (and clause 3.1) required, Templeton
Securities reasonably believed that Mr O wasnt expecting advice and was dealing on an
execution only basis.
I note here what our investigator said about the email of 22 May 2014 and its wording and
why that was unusual, coming from a client such as Mr O, and why the investigator thought it
shouldve prompted Templeton Securities to have queried the instruction. I agree that the
wording was in some respects technical. I dont think anyone without some financial services
experience, including in securities transactions, would be familiar with or understood how a
request to purchase shares with a 55 pence limit for T3 settlement or a £1.75 limit for T1
settlement would operate. Nor do I think a novice equities investor such as Mr O wouldve
necessarily understood what an AIM or GXG listed security was and how that differed from a
stock that was listed on, for example, the London Stock Exchange. I note hed indicated he
had some advisory broking investment experience. But no further details were given and Im
not sure how credible that was.
But, in any event, I dont think the wording of the email on its own meant that Templeton
Securities shouldve queried Mr Os instruction. If anything, it might reinforce Templeton
Securities belief that Mr O wasnt expecting advice. It might appear hed taken advice from
another party. On the face of it, it appeared to be a valid instruction. It was clear and specific.
It looked like Mr O had made a settled decision to invest in Emmit and Eligere. I dont think
theres anything in his email which suggests he was expecting Templeton Securities to give
him any advice about the transactions. I think the indication is that hed made a decision to
invest and he expected Templeton Securities to simply comply with his instruction and go
ahead and make the purchases.
That meant, and in accordance with clause 3.1 (see the penultimate sentence Ive quoted
from that provision above), Templeton Securities didnt accept responsibility for the
investment decision which Mr O had made when hed engaged Templeton Securities as an
execution only customer.
And clause 4.9, about Specific client instruction, said:
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we will
execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions. Where your instructions
relate to only part of the order, we will continue to apply our order execution policy to those
aspects of the order not covered by your specific instructions.
4.9.2 You should be aware that providing specific instructions to us in relation to the
execution of a particular order may prevent us from taking the steps set out in our order
execution policy to obtain the best possible result in respect of the elements covered by
those instructions. We reserve the right to refuse specific instructions from you regarding the
execution of your order, where in our opinion such instructions are not practicable or may be
contrary to your best interests.
On the face of it, and looking at Mr Os email in isolation, Templeton Securities didnt act
incorrectly in accepting Mr Os instruction and carrying it out.
But I dont think thats the end of the matter. As Ive gone on to explain, I think there were
wider factors which shouldve led Templeton Securities to question or look more closely at
Mr Os instruction and whether it should comply with it.
Id reiterate (as set out above) that Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in allthe circumstances of a case.
Templeton Securities received a significant number of requests to open this type of advisory
account with it, all within a relatively short period. And, very shortly after the accounts were
opened, emailed instructions with almost identical wording were sent to Templeton
Securities instructing investment in the one or two particular and niche shares.
By the time Templeton Securities received Mr Os instruction (22 May 2014), it had received
some six or so emails only the previous day from different investors. They were all to invest
in these shares, with near identical wording, and sent to the same person at Templeton
Securities (who I understand held the CF30 function with Alexander David Securities at that
time). This was all very shortly after the accounts had been opened. Mr Os instruction was
sent on 22 May 2014. It was only that day that the SIPP provider had emailed him confirming
his recent instruction to invest in Templeton Securities and saying that £25,000 had been
sent to them that day. And Mr Os instruction was one of at least three very similar, if not
identical, instructions received on 22 May 2014.
To date weve received over 20 complaints against Templeton Securities, representing
Alexander David, about very similar transactions that all happened at around the same time.
From what Ive seen, in all cases emails with the same or very similar investment
instructions were sent to the same person at Templeton Securities. And these are only the
cases where investors have complained and the matter has been referred to us. I think its
very probable that there are other instances of which Im not aware and where no complaint
has been made and referred to us.
Templeton Securities primary duty was to implement its clients instructions. But that duty
wasnt unqualified.
First, Templeton Securities had a broad contractual discretion whether to accept any order
or instruction from Mr O. Clause 3.7 said:
We may, at our discretion, decline to accept any order or instruction from you or instigate
certain conditions prior to proceeding with your order.
Secondly, Templeton Securities, as a regulated firm and in accordance with its own terms
and conditions, had an obligation to comply with the FCAs rules. Clause 2.2 said:
These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable Regulations. The
term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by the
FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any
Applicable Regulations, the latter will prevail;
(ii) nothing in these Terms and Conditions shall exclude or restrict any obligation
which we have to you under any Applicable Regulations;
(iii) we may take or omit to take any action we consider necessary to ensure
compliance with any Applicable Regulations; and
(iv) such actions that we take or omit to take for the purposes of compliance with
any Applicable Regulations shall not render us or any of our directors,officers, employees or agents liable to you.
The duty to comply with the FCAs rules was recognised in the terms and conditions as an
overriding duty that prevailed over anything to the contrary in those terms. And that
Templeton Securities could take, or omit to take, any action it considered necessary (such
as not complying with a clients instruction) to ensure compliance with its regulatory
obligations.
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection which it seeks to achieve through the
application of its Rules, including its Principles for Business (PRIN). Templeton Securities
was providing regulated financial services and was bound by these Principles and Rules (for
example COBS) and as set out in the terms and conditions.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the Principles. Ive borne in mind
what the courts have said (see, for example, Ouseley Js comments in British Bankers
Association v The Financial Services & Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin)) about how the
Principles operate in deciding whether Templeton Securities complied with them, taking into
account what Ive said above about the wider circumstances and in the context of the
instruction Mr O gave on 22 May 2014. I think Principles 2, 3 and 6 are particularly relevant
here. They say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care
and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise and
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its
customers and treat them fairly.
Here Templeton Securities had received at least six emails the previous day and Mr Os
email was one of at least three instructions given the next day; all the emails were sent to
the same person; there was a pattern of remarkably similarly worded execution only
instructions from different clients with SIPP accounts. All wanted Templeton Securities to
process purchases in the same niche shares, traded on non mainstream markets.
I think in these circumstances a stockbroker ought reasonably to have been alerted to the
possibility that something unusual might be going on. In my view, the circumstances ought to
have been a trigger for Templeton Securities to intervene in the normal processing of the
transactions and take a closer look behind them. If it had done so, it would have identified
that the instructions were coming from ordinary retail customers who:
had all recently opened advisory accounts and yet within a short period of time from
opening were all sending execution only instructions to make their first investment;
were investing the majority of the money in their SIPP in these same niche shares
presenting significant risks which werent the type of investments that would normally
be expected to form the significant part of anyones pension provision;
had sent almost identically worded instructions to invest in the same niche share(s),
suggesting these retail consumers may be being systematically advised by someone
to buy these shares and on how to go about it.
And that was in the context that:
Only an FCA authorised firm was lawfully able to give investment advice. And aregulated firm giving investment advice would usually arrange the transactions
themselves so as to charge dealing commission. It raised the possibility of serious
malpractice if an unauthorised person was giving investment advice in breach of
section 19 of FSMA.
The number of grouped instructions to purchase niche shares, specifying particular
days for settlement at particular prices, was highly unusual for seemingly
unconnected retail customers. Including settlement details in their instructions was
not only unusual but served no obvious purpose from a pension investors point of
view.
The possibility that the advice to buy the shares was coming from an unauthorized
person was increased by the riskiness of concentrating pension funds in the shares
of one or two small, obscure companies: a FCA authorised firm would have
regulatory obligations not to give unsuitable investment advice, and would be unlikely
to find such shares a suitable pension investment for many (if any) of their clients, let
alone a string of clients, and all at around the same time.
In my view, the circumstances surrounding the receipt of Mr Os instruction ought reasonably
to have caused Templeton Securities to take a closer look at the transaction.
Had it done so and looked at the information it already had available through the account
opening documentation, it wouldve seen that Mr Os only asset was his pension plan with a
value of £25,000. He had a relatively modest income, no savings, other investments or
assets and he didnt own his own property. Hed indicated a medium attitude to risk. Yet he
apparently wanted to invest all of his pension fund and his entire net worth in two niche
shares which werent traded on mainstream markets and when he had no experience of
investing in equities.
I understand that Templeton Securities has said that the unregulated firm wasnt known to it.
And it didnt have any discussions or agreement with it or any arrangement of any kind for
the introduction of business or otherwise. But, if Templeton Securities had looked into things
further, I think it wouldve discovered, relatively easily, that in Mr Os (and others) case, an
unregulated firm, was the common denominator and that the many and similarly worded
instructions had come from that firm. Had Templeton Securities queried the instruction with
Mr O and explained its concerns, I cant see that hed have had any reason not to tell
Templeton Securities whod suggested the investment. And he may have been able to have
produced an email similar to the one his representative has produced from the unregulated
firm to another client, setting out the wording of the investment instruction to be cut and
pasted in an email to Templeton Securities.
Giving investment advice and arranging deals in investments are regulated activities.
Section 19 of FSMA)  the general prohibition  says that no person may carry on a
regulated activity in the UK, or purport to do so unless they are an authorised person. But I
dont see that Mr O (or other ordinary retail clients) wouldve been aware of the general
prohibition or that the business he was dealing with wasnt an authorised firm and the
significance of that. I dont doubt that Mr O (and others) would simply have trusted the
unregulated firm and assumed that its adviser was acting lawfully and in his best interests.
If Mr O had said that another business was involved and, if Templeton Securities had
checked out that business status, it wouldve found out that it was unregulated. Knowing
that an unregulated firm was involved ought, I think, to have rung alarm bells with Templeton
Securities  it seemed an unauthorised person was advising Mr O (and others) to invest in
niche, high risk shares.
I think Templeton Securities wouldve been able to identify from a fairly cursory look at the
information it held about Mr Os circumstances, that the investment advice Mr O hadreceived  to invest a very substantial sum, representing his entire pension fund and only
asset, in two niche high risk shares  was wholly unsuitable for him. And that he wasnt, for
his own particular reasons, instructing an unsuitable order, given that so many other,
relatively new (and advisory) and inexperienced clients were giving virtually identical
instructions in similar circumstances. I think Templeton Securities ought to have realised that
it was likely that a third party was behind all the highly similar and somewhat unusual
instructions. At that point I think Templeton Securities shouldve exercised its discretion to
decline to accept the instruction.
Against that background, I dont think Templeton Securities met its obligations under
Principles 2, 3 and 6. I think if it had conducted its business with skill care and diligence and
took reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with
adequate risk management systems, it shouldve identified the high number of execution
only requests from relatively new advisory clients. And that there were striking and unusual
similarities in those requests. I think that shouldve led Templeton Securities to take a closer
look at the instructions.
If it had done so, Templeton Securities wouldve discovered that Mr O (and others) were
being advised by an unregulated adviser who was assisting them in making high risk and
unsuitable investments. Given the clear risk of consumer detriment, Templeton Securities,
and acting in Mr Os best interests, shouldve exercised its discretion and declined to accept
his instruction.
I note that theres some suggestion Templeton Securities did write to Mr O about the
investment and the fact that it was high risk. But no copy of any letter sent to Mr O has been
produced. In some cases Ive seen a letter was sent by Templeton Securities some months
after the investment had been made. I think there may be other cases where a letter was
sent much closer to the receipt of the investment instruction.
I understand that Templeton Securities has told us that it wrote to customers following a
review carried out by Templeton Securities compliance office because of the number of
transactions in Emmit and the rumours that were circulating around the market about people
investing in it. If Templeton Securities did write to some customers at least and for the
reasons it has explained, that supports what Ive said  that Templeton Securities shouldve
realised from the volume of similar, if not identical, business that it was receiving that
something unusual and untoward might be going on and which required further investigation.
Principle 3 requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems. I think Templeton
Securities shouldve had systems and controls in place which, in the circumstances Ive set
out above, wouldve meant a pattern was spotted at a very early stage.
Templeton Securities shouldve exercised its discretion under clause 3.7 to decline to carry
out Mr Os instruction to purchase the Emmit shares. It shouldve realised that there was a
real risk of consumer detriment. It was in a position to prevent the purchase of the shares.
Instead it facilitated Mr Os investment. I think Templeton Securities failed in its regulatory
obligations by acting on Mr Os instruction.
Ive gone on to consider what Mr O wouldve done if Templeton Securities had declined to
carry out his instruction.
I think a refusal and an explanation from Templeton Securities as to why it wasnt prepared
to carry out Mr Os instruction wouldve carried weight. And given Mr O pause for thought
about whether investing in Emmit and Eligere Investments was a good idea.Depending on how Templeton Securities might have put things to Mr O and what may have
been said about the dangers of accepting advice from an unauthorised person and the high
risk nature of the investments, Mr O may have decided immediately that he didnt want
anything further to do with the unregulated firm.
I recognise that hed been dealing with the unregulated adviser for some time and
presumably trusted him. But I think an indication from Templeton Securities, a regulated firm,
that what Mr O was being told to do by someone who wasnt authorised to give financial
advice anyway, is likely to have caused Mr O to think again about the wisdom of investing as
had been suggested. I think, in that scenario, Mr O wouldve asked Templeton Securities for
advice as to how to invest instead and in line with his attitude to risk and circumstances.
If Mr O had still wanted to proceed as planned then, as hed already transferred funds to
Templeton Securities and if it had declined to purchase the shares, Mr O wouldve needed to
have found another broker, asked the SIPP provider to get the money back from Templeton
Securities and then transfer it into the new account. I think that wouldve caused practical
difficulties for Mr O and is likely to have been enough to have made him think again.
Im aware that in some cases investors received a payment in return for investing. Mr O has
told us that he received a payment of 6 June 2014 of £1,762.12. Theres no suggestion that
it came from or via Templeton Securities or that it had any knowledge of the payment.
Im not sure if Mr O was told at the outset that if hed get a payment and what sort of amount
that might be. Or exactly what the payment was for  the transfer to the SIPP or the
purchase of the shares. I think its likely to have been the latter and the timing of the
payment is consistent with that.
I recognise the payment wouldve been an incentive for Mr O to purchase the shares, even if
Templeton Securities had intervened and said it wouldnt execute his instruction. Mr O may
have been motivated to overcome any difficulties in order to enable the share purchases to
proceed so hed get the payment. But I still think his faith in the unregulated firm is likely to
have been shaken had Templeton Securities declined to execute his instruction and
explained why.
Further, Mr Os only asset was his pension fund. It was worth about £25,000. The Emmit and
Eligere shares carried significant risk. Mr O had indicated that he only wanted to take a
medium degree of risk. I cant see that hed have wanted to take a higher degree of risk with
his only asset in return for a payment of £1,762. I note his circumstances were modest. I
recognise that the payment was no doubt welcome. But Mr O doesnt appear to have had
any unmanaged debts or pressing liabilities he needed to clear and which wouldve meant
he was prepared to risk his entire pension fund and his only asset in return for what was,
proportionately, a relatively modest payment.
On balance, I dont see that Mr O wouldve proceeded, just to secure the payment, had
Templeton Securities acted as I consider it shouldve done and declined his instruction. But
as hed had the use and benefit of that money Ive taken it into account when it comes to
redress.
As Ive said, the SIPP provider emailed Mr O on 12 November 2014 about the Emmit plc
shares and referring to the regulators earlier issued alert. But by the time the SIPP provider
wrote, trading in the shares had been suspended. I dont think there can be any suggestion
that Mr O couldve taken any action when he got that letter, such as trying to sell his Emmit
shares.
The valuation enclosed with the letter didnt indicate there might also be a problem with the
Eligere shares. Theyd more or less maintained their value. It was only when the SIPPprovider wrote again, on 23 October 2015, saying that the Eligere shares had been
suspended from trading in June 2015 and the GXG Exchange had closed in August 2015,
that Mr O wouldve been aware there was any problem. Again, by then, it was too late for
him to try to take any action.
As Ive said, Im aware that in some cases Templeton Securities wrote to customers about
their investment in Emmit plc. The letters Ive seen were headed Appropriateness of your
Investment  Emmit and said:
We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above type
of stocks and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel its appropriate to
invest in such high risk investments.
We fully understand that you have purchased these 'Execution Only' but wish to advise that
in the provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the
suitability of the service provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not
benefit from the corresponding protection of the relevant FCA Conduct of Business Rules.
In some cases, the letters werent sent until some months after the investment had been
made. But, if a letter was sent before the Emmit shares were suspended (October 2014),
there may be some argument that Mr O couldve done something to mitigate his position, by
trying to sell the shares. Templeton Securities has said that the share price was then
132.50p. A sale at that price would still have represented a loss for Mr O (Im not sure but I
think hed purchased closer to around 175.00p per share) but hed have avoided the total
loss of his investment which it seems he now faces. But, as no copy of any letter which may
have been sent to Mr O has been produced, I dont need to consider what, if anything, he
ought to have done when he got the letter.
In any event, and from the letters I have seen, although its arguable they shouldve
prompted an investor to take some action, I dont think thats the case. First, as Ive said,
selling wouldve crystallised a loss. Secondly, I dont know if Mr O wouldve been able to sell
and, if so, at what price. A sudden and large volume of sell instructions might not have been
possible for the market to accommodate and is likely to have impacted adversely on the
share price. In saying that I bear in mind that Templeton Securities may have written to other
investors at about the same time (Ive seen some letters were sent in September 2014, a
month before the Emmit shares were suspended) about the appropriateness of the
investment.
Secondly, and more importantly, I dont think the letters Ive seen were sufficient to prompt
investors to act. They were relatively brief. They did draw to investors attention the high risk
nature of the investment. And that Templeton Securities hadnt assessed suitability. But the
letters didnt indicate there were any particular problems with the investment. I dont think the
wording was sufficiently strong or specific such as ought to have prompted investors to act.
So, from what Ive seen, I dont think Mr O couldve taken any steps to mitigate and reduce
his losses.
Lastly, and for completeness, Ive also considered the application of sections 27 and 28 of
FSMA. In doing so, Ive borne in mind the findings in the recent Court of Appeal case of
Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (formerly Carey Pensions UK LLP) [2021]
EWCA Civ 474.
In summary, section 27 may apply where an authorised person (here Templeton Securities)
makes an agreement with another person (Mr O) in the course of carrying out a regulated
activity, which was a consequence of something said or done by a third party (here theunregulated firm) acting in breach of the general prohibition (section 19 of FSMA). Section
27 provides that an agreement to which it applies is unenforceable against the other party
and sets out what the other party can recover. Section 28 provides the court with the
discretion to allow an agreement to which section 27 applies to be in any event enforced, if it
considers it is just and equitable to do so.
Given the facts of Mr Os complaint and the surrounding circumstances as Ive set out
above, I think its most likely the unregulated firm was in breach of the general prohibition by
arranging deals in and advising on investments  articles 25 and 53 of the RAO. And I think
the advice and the unregulated firms actions in providing Mr O with his draft purchase
instruction clearly played a crucial part in Mr O buying the shares. As Ive explained, I think
its unlikely that so many ordinary retail clients would suddenly all unilaterally decide to invest
in these little known niche shares at around the same time. I think a court would find that
section 27 applies, and Mr O can (subject to section 28), recover the monies he invested
through his agreement with Templeton Securities when it accepted his instructions to
purchase the shares and the investment losses he sustained.
Ive gone on to consider section 28. I think the overriding question is set out in section 28 (3)
 that is whether it would be just and equitable in the circumstances of the case to allow
enforcement of the agreement or retention of the price paid. The significance of sections 28
(4) and (6) is to require the court to have regard to whether the firm knew the third party
was breaching the general prohibition. But as the Court of Appeal emphasised, meeting
the requirements of section 28 (6) will not necessarily mean that relief should be granted..
So, whilst it has to be taken into account, that factor isnt necessarily determinative. And the
question of whether the firm should reasonably have known the general prohibition was
being breached is something that it may be proper to take into account, but again it isnt a
determinative test, just a potentially relevant circumstance in some cases.
I think in deciding section 28 (3) and what was just and equitable in Mr Os case, the court
would, as it did in Adams v Options, look at all the circumstances in the round. For the
reasons I set out, I think Templeton Securities ignored several red flags that shouldve
reasonably alerted it that there was a strong possibility that its clients were being put in
harms way and that theyd been given the same unsuitable advice by the same unregulated
source. As Ive said, I dont think Templeton Securities acted reasonably in ignoring those
signals of potential wrongdoing. And I think, whilst the court would take into account
Templeton Securities may not have had actual knowledge of the breach, looking at the
circumstances in the round, had it acted reasonably  rather than ignore those clear
warnings  it wouldve discovered the breach on making reasonable enquiries around it.
Taking all this into account, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable to allow
Templeton Securities relief under section 28. And so Mr O could recover his money under
section 27.
In reaching my conclusions Ive borne in mind that Templeton Securities wasnt the only
business involved. I accept that the unregulated firm played a central role  it was behind the
setting up of Mr Os account with Templeton Securities and his instruction to invest in Emmit
and Eligere. I have no power to investigate a complaint against an unregulated firm.
But Templeton Securities was a regulated firm and bound by the regulators Rules and
Principles. I think, for the reasons Ive explained, that Templeton Securities failed to meet its
regulatory obligations to Mr O.
Templeton Securities shouldve realised there was a clear possibility of detriment to Mr O
and acted to prevent that. In my view, Mr Os losses flow from Templeton Securities failingsand so its fair and reasonable that Templeton Securities should redress Mr O for those
losses. If Templeton Securities considers that some other party is responsible, in whole or in
part for Mr Os losses, I dont think Mr O, if his losses are met in full by Templeton Securities,
would decline to assign any rights he might have against any other party to Templeton
Securities.
I gave both parties an opportunity to provide any further comments or evidence. Mr O didnt 
have any further comments. Templeton Securities asked for more time to reply which we 
allowed. 
We also told Templeton Securities that I was aware it had told us (in connection with other 
cases) that the FCA had carried out a review. It had sent us a copy of a letter that the FCA 
had sent to Alexander David Securities dated 12 November 2014. The letter said the FCA 
had appointed investigators to conduct an investigation into whether offences under 
section 89 of the Financial Services Act 2012; and or behaviour amounting to market abuse 
as defined in section 118 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) may 
have occurred. The letter went on to request various records from the firm relating to trades 
in Emmit Plc, along with other trading records from certain account holders and account 
documentation from certain SIPP providers. 
I asked for any further comments that Templeton Securities wanted to make about that 
matter to be included in its response. But we havent received any further comments from 
Templeton Securities or another request for more time to respond on Mr Os complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive noted above, we did ask for further details about the FCAs investigation, but no 
further information or evidence was provided. 
In any event, from what Ive seen, the FCA was investigating a different matter. Weve 
investigated Mr Os specific complaint and whether Templeton Securities met its obligations 
in dealing with him, including those concerning Mr Os purchase of shares in Eligere, which 
dont appear to be part of any FCA investigation. 
In the absence of any further arguments or comments, my views remain as set out in my 
provisional decision. What I said in that decision, as recapped above, forms part of this final 
decision. 
I uphold Mr Os complaint. Mr O should be redressed as set out in my provisional decision 
and which Ive repeated here.
Putting things right  fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr O as close as possible to
the position hed probably now be in if Templeton Securities hadnt agreed to purchase
the shares for Mr Os account.
If it had done so I think Mr O, having already completed the switch of his pension to the
SIPP, wouldve invested differently. It isnt possible to say precisely what hes have done, but
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr O's circumstances
and objectives when he invested.what should Alexander David Securities Limited do?
To compensate Mr O fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mr O's investments with that of the benchmark shown
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable. It should also pay any interest set out below.
If theres a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mr O's pension plan, to
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities
Limited shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any
existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr O's pension
plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mr O's actual or expected marginal rate
of tax at his selected retirement age. I think Mr O is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his 
selected retirement age. So the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr O wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Investment Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end date) Additional 
Interest
The amounts FTSE UK Date of purchase Date of my final 8% simple a year
invested in Private of each share decision from the date of
Emmit Investors Total my final decision
(£12,291.94) and Return Index to the date of
Eligere settlement if
(£12,317.25) settlement isnt
including charges made within 28
less a deduction days of
of £1,762 split Alexander David
equally  so £881 being notified of
from each. Mr Os
acceptance of
my final decision.
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Pay Mr O £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has
caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr O in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax
from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much it has taken off. It should also give
Mr O a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open (market), it
may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David Securities Limited should
take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the
SIPP provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance
paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to purchase the investment the actual value
should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander David Securities
Limited may wish to require that Mr O provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may
receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and
charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Alexander
David Securities Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I dont know exactly how Mr O wouldve invested. But I think the index I have outlined
above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the degree of risk that
Mr O said he was willing to take.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Alexander David Securities Limited must redress Mr O as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman