DRN-3376494
The complaint
Mr B complains about the issues that hes been caused as a result of the delayed delivery of 
a car that hed ordered from DreamLease Limited.
What happened
Mr B ordered a car from DreamLease, which was acting as a credit broker, in November 
2021 which was going to be supplied to him under a finance agreement. He says that the 
estimated delivery date was February 2022 but it was delayed until April 2022 and then 
delayed again so he cancelled the order. He complained to DreamLease but it said that the 
delivery date was only an estimate. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service as he believes that the 
advertising was dishonest and DreamLease hadnt offered him a loan car or refunded the 
processing fee that he paid. He also says that hes ordered a car from another dealer but a 
further search of his credit file had to be made which has caused him detriment. He says that 
DreamLease should be required to refund the processing fee and compensate him for the 
damage to his credit file.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
delivery date was an estimate, Mr B was aware of the processing fee and that she couldnt 
fairly ask DreamLease to refund the fee. She also said that Mr B hadnt provided evidence to 
show that the credit searches had a direct negative impact on him.
Mr B has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
delivery date was initially moved back to April 2022, which he could have accommodated, 
but was then moved to an indeterminable date and DreamLease couldnt tell him when it 
would be able to advise him of the delivery date. He says that he doesnt believe that its 
unreasonable to refund the processing fee in these circumstances. He says that 
DreamLeases marketing wasnt appropriately targeted, clear, and not misleading. Hes 
provided a screenshot of his credit score showing that it has reduced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Mr B has provided a copy of DreamLeases advert for the car which refers to 
February 2022 delivery but he electronically signed the order form which said that 
the estimated delivery date was to be confirmed and: Estimated delivery date is to 
the best of our knowledge and is not a contractual obligation;
theres no reference in the order form to the delivery date being February 2022 but 
DreamLease sent an email to Mr B which said: The estimated delivery date of your 
vehicle is February/March 2022. Please be aware this date is representational of the 
time we believe it will take to deliver the vehicle to you. We will do all that we 
reasonably can to ensure the vehicle is delivered to you as close as possible to this 
date but due to factors outside of our control this date can change. The actual 
delivery date will be confirmed to you when the supplying dealership have advised 
that the vehicle is ready for delivery, subject to your finance agreement being 
processed;
DreamLease then sent another email to Mr B to tell him that the manufacturer was 
showing an April delivery for his order but Mr B says that he was then told that the 
delivery would be delayed and that DreamLease couldnt tell him when it would be 
able to advise him of the delivery date;
I can understand Mr Bs frustration about the delayed delivery and his reasons for 
cancelling the order but I dont consider that DreamLease had guaranteed a delivery 
date and Im not persuaded that it has acted dishonestly or incorrectly in these 
circumstances - and I dont consider that it was required to provide him with a loan 
car;
it was clear from the order form that there was a processing fee of £234, which was 
paid by Mr B, and the order form said: Once this vehicle order form is signed, if you 
change your mind, there will be a cancellation fee equal to 3% + VAT of the vehicle's 
P11D, payable within 14 days. The cancellation fee is in addition to the processing 
fee which remains payable;
Mr B hasnt been charged a cancellation fee but I consider it be clear from the order 
form that the processing fee wasnt refundable if the order was cancelled and Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require DreamLease to refund the processing fee to Mr B;
Mr B says that he cancelled the order and ordered a car from another dealer but a 
further search of his credit file had to be made which has caused him detriment and 
hes provided a screenshot of his credit score showing that it has reduced; 
I consider that it was Mr Bs decision to cancel the order and then to order the car 
from another dealer so Im not persuaded that DreamLease has any liability for the 
consequences of that, including any adverse impact on his credit score  but the 
screenshot that Mr B has provided shows that he has an excellent credit score and, 
although it has reduced, Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that 
the reduction resulted from the further credit search or that Mr B has been caused 
any financial loss by that reduction; and
I sympathise with Mr B for the difficulties that hes experienced and the processing 
fee that hes incurred, but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require DreamLease to pay any compensation to him or to 
take any other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman