DRN-4092634
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how Allianz Global Corporate & Specialty SE handled their 
claim on their buildings warranty. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C own a property that benefits from a ten-year buildings warranty, thats 
underwritten by Allianz. Between 2018 and 2020 they made a number of claims after 
discovering various issues with the building.  
In 2020 they made a claim relating to the structural integrity of an external wall in their 
kitchen. It had caused issues in the bathroom above and cracks had developed in the wall 
that suggested it was unstable. 
Allianz appointed the original structural engineer to inspect the damage and subsequently 
accepted the claim. Mr and Mrs C appointed their own expert to draw up a plan for remedial 
works. This came to over £300,000.
Following this, Allianz asked the original engineer to review the proposed work and put 
together their own quote for the work they felt was required to put the defect right. This came 
in at a significantly lower cost.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with the quote provided and thought it inappropriate that the 
original engineer had been asked to put the problem right when theyd caused it in the first 
place. Because of this, Allianz appointed a third expert to give their opinion on the 
appropriate remedial work.
Mr and Mrs C asked for a copy of this report, however it took some time for this to be 
provided. They also asked for the fees of the professional experts they appointed to be 
reimbursed, but again this took some time. 
Throughout the claims, Mr and Mrs C had been unhappy with how matters had been 
handled. They made a number of complaints during this time. In March 2022 Allianz 
responded to their most recent complaint and didnt uphold it. Due to this, they brought their 
complaints to this service.
While Mr and Mrs C had a number of issues they wanted to be addressed, the main 
concerns were as follows:
Allianz hadnt followed a fair or proper process when appointing the various experts 
who had reported on the damage, including taking action without their consent. 
Allianz had failed to provide the reports from those appointed experts when Mr and 
Mrs C requested them.
Allianz had agreed to pay the fees for Mr and Mrs Cs loss assessor but it had taken 
many months to receive this payment.
The claim had taken a long time to move forward due to delays caused by Allianz.
The handling of their other claims under the warranty since 2018.
Our investigator considered the issues and said he was unable to consider the complaint 
relating to the other claims, as the complaints relating to these hadnt been brought to this 
service in the required time frame. 
However he agreed Allianz had handled the claim for the structural defect poorly and 
recommended it pay £500 to apologise for the poor service and delays.
Allianz accepted our investigators outcome, however Mr and Mrs C didnt. In summary they 
said:
They didnt agree their complaint about the other defects had been brought out of 
time as Allianz referred to these complaints in its most recent final responses issued 
in March 2022 and they brought the complaint to this service in August 2022.
It was inappropriate for the original engineer to be appointed to report on the damage 
in the first place and Allianz shouldnt have done this.
Allianz tried to conceal the report from the third expert as this discredited the original 
engineers report and this wasnt fair.
When the third expert was appointed, this was done without Mr and Mrs Cs consent.
When it agreed to pay Mr and Mrs Cs professional fees Allianz tried to get them to 
sign a form that confirmed no further payments towards these fees would be made, 
which was unfair and deceitful. 
Mr and Mrs C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
Firstly, I want to make clear what I am able to consider as part of this complaint. This service 
cannot consider every complaint thats referred to us. Thats because were bound by the 
rules laid down by Parliament and published by the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). 
These rules are known as the DISP rules. 
DISP 2.8.2R(1) says that this service is unable to consider a complaint if its been referred to 
us more than six months after the final response letter was sent, unless the business gives 
its consent. Here I can see that Allianz issued final response letters in answer to the 
concerns Mr and Mrs C raised about the previous claims in 2020. As they brought their 
complaint to this service in August 2022, this wasnt brought in time for this service to 
consider the matter.
Mr and Mrs C have pointed out that Allianz also referred to the complaints about the 
previous claims for other defects in its letters issued in 2022. While I agree that it 
referenced these complaints, its position on the complaints didnt change. In fact it referred 
back to the previous final response letters for its stance. This service only considers a new final response to have been issued about a complaint where the business in question 
changes its stance or addresses the issues in full again. Where it reaffirms its stance in a 
previous letter, then that response still stands, including the date by which the customer 
must refer the complaint to this service. 
For that reason, Im satisfied that the final response to Mr and Mrs Cs complaints relating to 
other defects was issued in 2020 and therefore wasnt brought to this service in the 
required time. In the final response letter from 2020, Aliianz stated as follows:
You have six months from the receipt of this letter to refer your complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service; any complaints received after this deadline cannot be considered by 
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Therefore Allianz hasnt given consent for this complaint to be reviewed after the required six 
months. For these reasons I wont be addressing the merits of the issues relating to the 
other defects, as they fall outside of this services jurisdiction.
Structural defect claim
Mr and Mrs C have raised a number of issues regarding this claim throughout the time 
Allianz has been dealing with it. As this is an informal service, I wont respond to each point 
directly. Instead Ive focussed on what I consider to be key to my outcome. However I want 
to reassure them that Ive read and considered everything theyve submitted when reaching 
my decision. 
It's clear that this has been a long and difficult claim. And there have been issues with how 
its been handled from the start. From looking at the correspondence and reports related to 
the claim, I can see there have been some delays on each side. For example, while I 
understand Mr and Mrs Cs reasons for withdrawing their consent for a third party to assess 
the claim, this did slow matters down. 
However I agree Allianz could have done more to provide a better service to Mr and Mrs C 
and to move the claim on more promptly, for example:
Mr and Mrs C requested a copy of the third report from Allianz and this wasnt 
provided for some time. While Allianz has said the initial report was just a draft and 
not suitable to be provided, I still think it could have taken action earlier to get the 
report finalised and sent to Mr and Mrs C. This delayed the claim from moving 
forward and meant Mr and Mrs C had to continually contact Allianz to chase it up. 
Mr and Mrs C have said they think Allianz purposefully concealed the report from 
them. Ive not seen any evidence of this. However I agree that Allianz could and 
should have acted more promptly.
Allianz agreed to reimburse Mr and Mrs C the cost of their professional fees, less the 
applicable policy excesses. However it took it around ten months to issue the 
payment. And Ive seen no good reason for this delay. In this time Mr and Mrs C had 
to chase Allianz for the payment, which caused them further distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs C have said that they believe Allianz breached their rights under GDPR 
legislation, as it appointed a third expert to the claim when they had withdrawn 
consent for their details to be passed on. It isnt the remit of this service to assess 
whether Allianz handled their data correctly, but instead to consider if it acted fairly 
and reasonably. Here, I think Allianz could have been clearer about who they were appointing, what that experts remit was and why the appointment was necessary. 
This could have allayed Mr and Mrs Cs concerns at the time and helped them 
understand why Allianz felt it necessary to appoint the experts that it did. However as 
the information it provided wasnt clear, this led to unnecessary distress and concern 
for Mr and Mrs C that could have been avoided. 
For these reasons I agree Allianz has handled the claim poorly at times. And has caused 
delays that could have been avoided. So I agree with our investigator that it should pay £500 
compensation to apologise for these delays and poor service, as this is in line with this 
services approach to complaints of a similar nature.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and require Allianz Global 
Corporate & Specialty SE to pay them £500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman