DRN-1958948
The complaint
Mr O, who acts on behalf of Miss K and Mr O, is unhappy that National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest) wont refund two transactions from their account that he says they didnt 
authorise.
What happened
Whilst looking at their account, Miss K and Mr O recognised two transactions that neither of 
them say they carried out. The first payment was on 10 September 2019 for £150 and the 
second on 13 September for £50. Both payments were to the same payee, which was an 
account theyd paid before.
Miss K and Mr O disputed the transactions with NatWest. They said that they hadnt 
authorised the transactions and that they were abroad at the time they were made. They 
said that theyd contacted the payee  who was known to them  and asked why the money 
had been transferred to their account. But the payee denied any involvement in this and 
claimed shed had her account closed by her banking provider.
NatWest declined the fraud claim. It said that the payment was made using Miss Ks genuine 
mobile banking login information and didnt fit a pattern of fraud. Mr O was unhappy with 
NatWests response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator here reviewed all the evidence provided by both Mr O and NatWest, but she 
thought that it was more likely than not that Miss K authorised the transactions. She said:
The transactions were made using Miss Ks genuine mobile device and banking 
application, which would have required knowledge of their security access 
information.
The internet protocol (IP) address coincided with their location at the time of the 
transactions.
There was no explanation as to how the payee may have accessed the account and 
made the transfers as the security information wasnt shared with them.
The payments didnt fit a pattern of fraud as the person carrying out the transactions 
could have transferred further funds from the account, and the transactions were 
carried out over a few days.
Mr O disagreed with the investigators assessment as he maintained that neither he nor 
Miss K authorised the transactions. He added that the payee admitted that theyd received 
the funds as theyd said, had Miss K and Mr O not reported the matter to their bank, they 
could have returned the funds to them. Mr O also says that there was no reason why hed be 
sending money to the payee as they were someone that theyd used to transfer money 
abroad in the past, and there was no reason for them to be sending money abroad at that 
time.
As Miss K and Mr O didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the matter has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In basic terms, NatWest can hold Miss K and Mr O liable for any disputed transactions if 
either they authorised those transactions, or they didnt take reasonable steps to secure their 
account. So, Ive gone on to consider if  on the balance of probabilities  its more likely 
than not that Miss K or Mr O authorised the transactions theyve disputed.
Mr O has told our service that both he and Miss K were attending a family engagement 
abroad at the time of the transactions. As the transactions in dispute were authenticated 
through Miss Ks mobile banking application, NatWest has provided technical evidence 
outlining the mobile banking usage and IP data associated with that usage.
NatWest has said that it believes the transactions were authorised because Miss Ks 
genuine device  registered with the mobile banking application  appears to have been 
used to make both of the transactions in dispute. It says that its mobile banking application 
cannot be accessed without entering a passcode or using biometric security; such as a 
fingerprint. Having reviewed this evidence, I am persuaded that the transactions were made 
using a device previously used by Miss K for undisputed transactions. Im also persuaded 
that they were carried out using Miss Ks genuine online banking login information. It follows 
that its more likely than not that the transactions were made using Miss Ks genuine device 
and online banking application.
Ive also considered that the IP data held on this technical evidence suggests one of the 
transactions being carried out close to Miss K and Mr Os location at the time. However, I do 
acknowledge the unreliability of IP data as this can easily be masked or changed with very 
little effort. Nevertheless, it adds weight to the fact that the transactions were made using 
Miss Ks genuine device.
Mr O has informed our service that the payments were made to a known existing third-party 
payee that theyd used previously to send money abroad. Hes denied that this third-party 
payee had either access to Miss Ks online or mobile banking information, or her phone at 
the time of the transactions. But he has mentioned that the third-party indicated a family 
members involvement in the disputed transfers. Even when taking this into account, the 
payee had no knowledge of Miss Ks online or mobile banking, so I cant see how they would 
have relayed this information to a person intent on taking funds from Miss Ks account.
Ive attempted to ask Mr O if anyone else had knowledge of Miss Ks online banking 
information or access codes to enter either her mobile telephone or banking application  but 
I havent received a response. So, Ive gone on to consider possible scenarios here.
Miss K hadnt provided her online banking information or security information to any third-
party
Had Miss K not provided her online banking or mobile application security access to any 
third party then I think its unlikely that someone could have taken her telephone, accessed 
her banking application and made the transactions on two separate dates. Even had 
someone managed to observe Miss K entering her security information without her 
knowledge, I dont think there is a reasonable explanation as to why they would have carried 
out the transactions on two separate dates, three days apart, rather than just carrying it out 
on the first occasion. I also find it unlikely that had this been the case, a third party wouldnt 
have taken advantage of the situation by transferring more funds that were available in the 
account. This doesnt fit the typical pattern of a fraudster  or even an opportunist  whereby wed normally see the culprit remove as much money as possible in the shortest time to 
prevent detection.
Ive also not seen any plausible explanation as to why an unknown third party wouldve 
transferred funds to an existing payee. I think had an opportunist been responsible here that 
theyd likely have set up a new payee and removed the funds to an account they could 
access the funds from.
Miss K had provided a third-party access to her online banking or mobile application
As Ive mentioned already, Miss K has a responsibility to take reasonable steps to keep her 
account secure. Had Miss K provided information that would allow a third-party access to her 
account, I couldnt reasonably hold NatWest responsible for any actions that resulted from 
this.
However, I dont think this scenario is likely for the same reasons Ive already mentioned. 
Even had Miss K willingly allowed a third-party access to her account, I dont think it likely 
that the person would have limited their gain to only £200. And I also find it unlikely they 
would have waited two days to carry out a second transfer when they would have had the 
opportunity to do this on their first access to the account.
For the reasons Ive provided above, I think that when taking all the evidence available into 
account in this complaint that it is more likely than not Miss K authorised the payments in 
dispute.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman