DRN-3648511
The complaint
Mr F, as the executor of the late Mr Ms estate, complains that Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) wont refund two cheques which he says were written out fraudulently from the 
late Mr Ms account.
What happened
In 2019, Mr F raised a complaint with Santander. He referenced two cheques written out on 
the late Mr Ms account, saying the cheques were written and cashed fraudulently.
Date written on 
chequeDate cheque 
cashedCheque details Amount
27.9.2016 30.09.2016 Cheque no: 102067 payable to: R £5,000
27.9.2016 16.11.2016 Cheque no: 102070 payable to: R £2,500
Mr F told Santander that he believed R wrote out the cheques not the late Mr M, and said 
the signatures on the cheques appear to have been copied by R.
Mr F says the late Mr M had a complex medical history and required care for some months 
prior to his passing in late 2016. He says that during this time various carers had access to 
the late Mr Ms flat and one carer was caught misappropriating and opening bank 
statements. Mr F says the main carer (R), appears to have been siphoning off money which 
could not be explained by care costs, shopping, bills etc.
Mr F feels Santander failed to take appropriate steps after having suspicions about the 
validity of the second cheque for £2,500. Also, Mr F feels the handwriting and signatures on 
both cheques shouldve been flagged by Santander as not matching previous specimens 
they had for the late Mr M and shouldve resulted in neither of the cheques being paid. 
Mr F raised a fraud claim with Santander in July 2019, asking them to refund the value of 
these two cheques. Santander acknowledge that they didnt raise the fraud claim straight 
away, saying it was raised in August 2019. Santander wrote to Mr F once theyd completed 
their fraud investigation, saying they deemed the cheques to have been authorised by the 
late Mr M and wouldnt be refunding them. However, they apologised for the poor service   
Mr F had experienced and made a payment of £150 in compensation.
Mr F wasnt happy with Santanders response, so he brought a complaint to our service on 
behalf of the late Mr Ms estate.
An investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend Santander refund the estate. 
They explained that it wasnt clear what the late Mr Ms intentions were with regards to the 
cheques, and there was insufficient evidence to say the late Mr M was the victim of fraud 
and didnt consent to the cheques. They also felt the £150 already paid by Santander was 
fair in recognition of the poor service Santander gave.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying:
The cheques werent written out or signed by the late Mr M.
Santanders cheque verification practices are lax in comparison to other banks. 
Another bank queried a cheque on an account the late Mr M held with them, saying 
the signature and handwriting was weak.
If Santander had been more alert, the cheques in question wouldnt have been 
passed. Especially as Santander had concerns about the second cheque.
The payee of the cheques tried to hide them by using cheques between two other 
chequebook pages.
The late Mr Ms Will should be taken into account as indicating his intent with regards 
to the payee of the cheque not being entitled to any money from his accounts.
Due to a fall two weeks before his death, the late Mr M was hospitalized and mentally 
and physically not capable of writing cheques without someone taking advantage. 
Had Santander taken appropriate steps when they were concerned about the second 
cheque, they wouldve discovered this.
£150 is not sufficient to address Santanders failure to respond in a timely manner, 
their refusal to speak to Mr Fs wife and them sending a letter to the late Mr M after 
being notified of his passing. 
Also, the late Mr Ms information was compromised due to the letter Santander sent 
to his address as the house had been sold.
Mr F also feels we havent addressed Santanders lack of sensitivity, professionalism, or 
their negligence and the potential impact this could have on other customers.
As Mr F disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Having reviewed everything very carefully, Ive reached the same outcome as the 
investigator. I appreciate that Mr F is going to be extremely disappointed, but Im not 
satisfied that I can fairly ask Santander to refund the estate.
Have Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably in honouring the cheques?
Weve been given copies of the two cheques that Mr F says were written and signed 
fraudulently. Mr F has pointed to the handwriting and signature on the cheques not matching 
the late Mr Ms handwriting. He also says that at the time these cheques were written, the 
late Mr M was telling him about any large payments made on his account  and that these 
cheques werent mentioned.
In this case its difficult for me to know exactly what happened, who wrote out the cheques 
and what the late Mr M knew about these cheques. I also dont have testimony from the 
payee who received and cashed the cheques, other than what Mr F says R told him.Ive looked at the two cheques in question, along with a cheque which was written out two 
months prior, the late Mr Ms signature on his Will document (signed a year prior) and the 
late Mr Ms signature on his driving licence which was issued ten years prior.
From what Ive seen, the handwriting on the two cheques is very similar to the handwriting 
on a previous cheque made out to a government department which isnt being disputed.  
Whether one or both were written out by the late Mr M, I cant tell, but the evidence suggests 
its very possible that both cheques were written out by the same person. Comparing the 
signatures is more difficult. The signature on the Will document is a close match for one of 
the cheques in dispute. The signature on all three cheques, Will document and driving 
licence are all slightly dissimilar but not significantly different to each other.
Im not a handwriting expert, and our role doesnt require us to decide conclusively who 
signed the cheques. Also, I have to take into consideration that the late Mr Ms health was 
declining for a significant period of time which is likely to have affected both his signature 
and handwriting and mayve resulted in some changes. It may also have required other 
parties to write out cheques for the late Mr M, with him just signing them. 
Having looked at the cheques, Im not satisfied that there is anything visually unusual or 
unexpected whereby I think Santander shouldve been concerned and not honoured the 
cheques when they were presented through the cheque clearing process. 
Mr F has raised the late Mr Ms health deterioration and how this wouldve been obvious to 
Santander if they had contacted the late Mr M. But, as I dont think there was any reason for 
Santander to have concerns about these two cheques, I wouldnt have expected them to 
contact the late Mr M. And, I cant see any evidence that Santander was made aware that 
the late Mr M was particularly vulnerable or that additional checks were needed in relation to 
the operation of his account.
Ive also considered the overall claim Mr F has raised, that the late Mr M was the victim of 
fraud, perpetrated by R. But Im not satisfied that the evidence enables me to safely 
conclude that he was.
There isnt any clear evidence that suggests the late Mr M didnt consent to these cheques 
or didnt have some benefit from the proceeds. I appreciate that the cheques were made out 
to R, and appear to have been paid to R, however R was the main carer for the late Mr M  
so its possible that some of these funds couldve been used for the late Mr Ms benefit. Even 
if the late Mr M didnt have any benefit of the funds, that still leaves the question about 
whether the late Mr M consented to the cheques.
Mr F points to the late Mr Ms Will and the disbursement of his estate assets, saying this 
gives a clear indication of the late Mr Ms intent with regards to how funds would be allocated 
between R and another party. But, Im not satisfied that this is sufficient to convince me that I 
can safely reach a conclusion that the late Mr M didnt consent or authorise these cheques.
As the investigator explained to Mr F, the police or the court can compel testimony and 
evidence from third parties including R as part of an investigation or court case - which our 
service doesnt have the power to do. So, Mr F on behalf of the estate, may want to consider 
options outside of our service if they wish to pursue this matter further.
Having considered everything very carefully, I cant fairly conclude that Santander acted 
unreasonably in honouring the cheques and therefore wont be asking Santander to refund 
the estate.The level of service the late Mr Ms estate received from Santander
I appreciate that Mr F is very unhappy with the level of service hes received from Santander 
and has raised a number of concerns. 
I dont wish to upset or frustrate Mr F, but I cant make an award based on his personal 
distress. As an executor, he is bringing a complaint on behalf of the late Mr M, so any 
distress award would be focused on the impact on the late Mr M. On that basis, Im satisfied 
that the £150 Santander have already offered is fair.
Mr F has raised concerns about a potential data breach, due to Santander sending a letter to 
the late Mr M after his property had been sold. However, Mr F has told us that a postal 
redirection service was in place at the time. The fact that this letter wasnt forwarded on 
under that redirection service isnt something that I can hold Santander accountable for. 
Santander have acknowledged their mistake in sending the letter, and I realise it would be 
concerning for the estate. But we cant punish businesses when a mistake is made, and I 
havent seen anything that suggests any impact was caused to the late Mr M or the estate as 
a result of the letter being sent. 
Santanders practices 
Mr F has raised overall concerns about what he says is Santanders lax approach to cheque 
verification processes. Our role is to look at individual complaints, what happened, whether 
something went wrong, and what should be done to put things right. We cant comment on 
or review a banks overall policy, procedures or processes  which falls under the remit of 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, I wont be able to provide Mr F with the answers 
or reassurances he wants with regards to potential impact on other customers.
I do appreciate that Mr F is going to be very disappointed in my decision, and that he 
genuinely believes that the late Mr M was taken advantage of and had money stolen from 
him. However, in the circumstances of this case, I cant fairly hold Santander liable or ask 
them to refund the estate for the two cheques. And, I think the £150 theyve already offered 
in relation to the poor service is fair. If Santander hasnt already made the £150 payment, 
they should do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman