DRN-2176230
The complaint
Mrs G says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans provided by Lending Stream. A summary of the 
borrowing, based on information Lending Stream provided us can be found below;
loan number loan amount received dateactual 
repayment datenumber of 
instalments 
1 £300 17/11/2013 outstanding 6
2 £100 27/01/2014 outstanding 6
  
Mrs G was expected to make monthly repayments for each loan.  Her largest contractual 
repayment for loan one was around £162 and her largest repayment due while loans 1 and 2 
were running was around £155. 
Mrs G has had some repayment problems and Lending Stream sold both of these loans to a 
third party. Based on what Mrs G has told us a County Court Judgement (CCJ) has been 
granted for the outstanding balance.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. He thought that Lending Stream had 
carried out proportionate checks before these loans were approved, and this led him to 
conclude that Lending Stream hadnt made an error in approving these loans. 
Lending Stream appears to have accepted the adjudicators view. Mrs G disagreed and said 
in summary;
she had other loans in arrears at the time the lending was granted and 
she was a regular user of short-term loans from other lenders. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Firstly, Mrs G has provided us a copy of a Lending Stream loan agreement from 2011  
suggesting that she had three loans rather than two. Lending Stream has searched its 
records and has told us that it cant find this earlier loan.
Mrs G has also said shes reviewed her bank statements from 2011 and cant see a deposit 
from Lending Stream or repayments to it. Therefore, in this decision, Ive only considered the 
two loans that Lending Stream has been able to provide information for. 
Secondly, Mrs G has provided detailed testimony about her circumstances and what has 
happened with regards to the CCJ and the third party who now has responsibility for the 
outstanding balance. If Mrs G is unhappy with the CCJ and /or the actions of the third party 
she will need to seek independent advice (if she hasnt already done so) about the best way 
to address her concerns. 
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mrs G has had, but I want to be clear that this decision 
will only focus on whether Lending Stream made an error when it granted the two loans 
detailed above. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs G could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include (but are not limited to):
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mrs G could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Gs complaint but, like the adjudicator, based on 
what Ive seen I dont think Lending Stream made an error by providing these loans. Lending Stream says it agreed to Mrs Gs application after she provided details of her 
monthly income and expenditure. In addition, Lending Stream has carried out a credit check 
and has provided us with the results for these loans. 
For these loans, I think the checks Lending Stream carried out went far enough. It gathered 
information about her income (between £1,700 - £2,000). And Mrs G declared outgoings of 
£350 for loan one and for loan two £700 per month. Based on the repayment amounts Mrs G 
was committed to making, and the fact it was early on in the lending relationship, I think it 
was reasonable for Lending Stream to have relied on this information. And importantly, the 
information it gathered suggested Mrs G was in a position to afford the repayments. 
Ive also thought about the credit checks Lending Stream carried out. But what is important 
to note is that the results that a lender may obtain from a credit search may not be the same 
as someones credit report that can be downloaded. This is because a lender may only ask 
to see certain information and / or some of the information on a credit file can take up to 6 
weeks to be reported. So the information a lender may see may not be the true and up to 
date information. But that doesnt mean it isnt entitled to rely on the information it is 
provided. 
In this case, Lending Stream was aware that Mrs G had 9 active accounts when loan one 
was approved and 11 when loan two was approved. And Id expect loan one would be one 
on of the additional two active accounts that Lending Stream knew about when loan 2 was 
given. 
I accept that Lending Stream didnt know what these credit facilities were: they couldve 
been personal loans, credit cards, store cards, mobile phone contracts and possibly payday 
lending. But I dont think there was anything from this part of the report which indicated 
Mrs G may have been reliant on short term loans.
Lending Stream was aware of a number of defaults / delinquent accounts, which couldve 
been a cause for concern. But Lending Stream also knew that no defaults had been 
recorded for close to 18 months (at the time of the first loan) and it was over a year since 
anything delinquent had been recorded. Overall, there wasnt anything else to suggest that 
Mrs G had ongoing financial difficulties, or that Lending Stream needed to decline Mrs Gs 
application or carry further checks based on the credit checks alone. 
Ive also seen evidence that Mrs G was subject to a debt management plan (DMP) at the 
time the loans were approved  but there wasnt anything in the information that Lending 
Stream took (either from Mrs G or from the credit report) that suggested she was subject to 
one. So, I cant reasonably say that Lending Stream ought to have been aware of the DMP. 
I accept that Mrs Gs actual full financial circumstances were maybe not reflected either in 
the information she provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained  such as 
the credit report. And Mrs Gs actual financial position might well have been apparent if 
further information  such as bank statements or detailed credit checks  had been obtained. 
But Lending Stream could only make its decision based on the information it had available at 
the time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Mrs G so I dont 
think it needed to carry out further checks. 
I also dont think it had reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loan being 
unsustainable for Mrs G. In these circumstances, I dont think Lending Stream needed to 
take further steps to verify the information she had provided. I am therefore not upholding Mrs Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing 
for Mrs G. But I hope that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman