DRN-2859903
The complaint
Mrs C obtained a kitchen through a fixed sum loan with Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF). She complains that the kitchen isnt of 
satisfactory quality and wants to reject it and cancel the loan agreement. She also complains 
that BPF started the agreement and followed its debt collection process, even though shed 
not signed to say the kitchen was complete.
What happened
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which was issued to 
both parties on 17 May 2021. In my provisional decision I explained why I thought Mrs Cs 
complaint should be upheld. I said:
Under section 75, if theres been a breach of contract by the retailer, Mrs C also has, 
subject to certain conditions, the right to make a claim against BPF, as the finance 
provider, for the breach. My role isnt to decide whether or not section 75 applies 
here. Rather, Im required to decide what, if anything, BPF should do to resolve this 
complaint. When taking into account whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take 
into account (amongst other things) any relevant law. Relevant law includes 
section 75.
Relevant law also includes the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA applies 
to contracts which supply goods and services to a consumer. It says that, under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory, fit for purpose and as described. And that under a contract to supply 
services, (in this case the fitting of the kitchen) the work must be carried out with 
reasonable care and skill. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods 
would need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory, considering any description of the goods, the price and all the other 
relevant circumstances.
Was the kitchen of satisfactory quality and has it been fitted with reasonable care and 
skill?
An independent report was completed in February 2000. The inspector found the 
following issues and recommended the following remedies. I have numbered these 
for ease:
1 The plinth has been cut to allow the dishwasher 
door to open. The cut edge of the plinth has not 
been sealed to protect it against likely moisture 
ingress from the dishwasher. The door is slightly 
out of alignment. There is a small amount of 
chipping on the door. The plastic sealing strip that 
provides a moisture seal at the bottom of the plinth 
is broken.Replace the door.
Replace the plinth and seal 
it.
2 The base drawer unit overlaps the doorway. No remedy given, as this 
was shown on the plan.
3 There is a chip on the corner of one of the door 
fronts of the integrated fridge/freezer. Some of the 
pre-drilled hinge recesses have been fitted with a 
blanking plug but not all of them. There is some 
damage to the inside of the carcase.Replace the fridge/freezer 
carcase and replace the 
door.
4 There are some marks on the worktops which 
appear to be from the jointing compound.Polish out the marks.
5 The upstand around the back of the worktops has 
been sealed along the top with silicone sealant. 
This cannot be overpainted. There is some 
residual marking of the wall where this will affect 
any attempt at touching in.Remove the silicone sealant 
and replace it with acrylic.
6 The corner joints of the upstands vary, with 
different joint thicknesses and some not aligning 
perfectlyThe upstands are not 
perfect but in my opinion 
they are satisfactory.
7 The upstands have been cut to accommodate a 
pipe in one corner.It is not reasonably 
practicable to cut worktops 
around a pipe and I do not 
consider this to be a fault. 
The pipe could be boxed in, 
or the space around the pipe 
could be filled using black 
silicone applied after 
decorating the wall.
Due to faults 1, 3, 4, and 5, the inspector concluded that the kitchen supplied to 
Mrs C has not been fitted to an entirely satisfactory standard. I think I can fairly and 
reasonably rely on the content and conclusions of this report because it was 
completed by an independent expert. It follows that I dont find the fitting of the 
kitchen was carried out with reasonable care and skill.
The independent report has not commented specifically on the quality of the kitchen 
itself. Ive considered this very carefully as my findings here will affect what I decide 
the fairest remedy to be.
The inspection was detailed and covered every unit, ancillary item and the 
worktops. The inspector found chips in two of the doors but did not pass any 
comment about the quality of the kitchen itself. This may suggest that the inspector 
thought the kitchen was of satisfactory quality.
But Mrs C has recently provided us with more than 50 photographs. In some of the 
photographs, the fault or damage is difficult to identify, but there are enough photos 
that do show issues which are not listed in the independent report. In particular, 
numerous chips to the units and units where the paintwork has flaked away. I think 
its most likely  because these werent identified by the independent inspector  that 
these issues have arisen since he completed his report in February 2000.I need to think about whether these faults are due to normal wear and tear or 
whether the faults evidence that the kitchen units are not sufficiently durable, which 
would suggest they arent of satisfactory quality. We asked BPF for its comments and 
it said, We cannot comment on damage caused to the kitchen by the household and 
do not believe this type of wear and tear should be taken into consideration as to 
whether a kitchen is durable or not.
As noted earlier, when thinking about whether an item is satisfactory, I need to 
consider what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. Before 
supplier discounts, the cost of the kitchen and fitting came to around £20,000. And 
the suppliers website says that its kitchens have a flawless finish and are 
guaranteed for 25 years. Taking all this into account, I wouldnt reasonably expect to 
see the chips, scratches and flaking paintwork in a kitchen which is less than two 
years old. Its possible Mrs C hasnt looked after the kitchen as much as she might 
have done because she is so disappointed with it. But, even if this was the case, 
I wouldnt expect to see the amount of damage as evidenced in the photos. For this 
reason, I am minded to conclude, on balance, that the kitchen wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied.
And I explained what I thought BPF needed to do to put things right. I said:
BPF provided the finance for the kitchen, so it is responsible for putting things right.
The independent report concluded that the faults could be put right, as noted in my 
earlier table. And the supplier had confirmed it was happy to do this. But Ive found 
that there are more faults than listed in the independent report and that the kitchen 
itself is not of satisfactory quality. I dont think repair is now a reasonable remedy 
here.
I am minded to conclude that BPF should accept Mrs Cs rejection of the kitchen and 
refund everything paid under the terms of the finance agreement and arrange to 
remove the kitchen.
I think BPF should remove the existing kitchen at a time and date convenient for Mrs 
C  she is likely to want to coordinate this with the delivery of a new kitchen.
I would expect BPF to pay for any damage caused during the removal of the kitchen.
Compensation  distress and inconvenience
BPF paid Mrs C £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mrs C said she 
didnt receive this, but BPF has provided evidence that it was paid directly to her 
bank account. (In order to make the payment, BPF credited and then debited Mrs Cs 
fixed sum loan account, and it may be these entries that shes referring to when she 
says BPF took the money out of her account again).
We asked BPF to reconsider whether it would pay additional compensation. Mrs C 
has had several return visits from the supplier to try to put things right over a lengthy 
period. And shes been without a satisfactory quality kitchen. BPF has offered to pay 
Mrs C £400, in addition to the £100 already paid. Mrs C may well feel this isnt 
enough to compensate her for the distress shes been caused. But I think it is fair, 
bearing in mind shes had use of the kitchen and appliances.Activation of the finance agreement
Mrs C complains that the finance agreement was activated even though she hadnt 
signed to confirm the work had been completed. BPF had received confirmation from 
the supplier that the contract had been fulfilled, so I dont think it was wrong to start 
the finance agreement, or to follow its debt collection process when the account fell 
into arrears. As Ive concluded the agreement should be cancelled, the arrears will be 
cleared. BPF should remove the agreement from Mrs Cs credit file so that her credit 
score isnt affected.
BPF did not agree that rejection of the kitchen and unwinding the agreement was a fair way 
to resolve the six faults that the independent inspector had identified. It said the supplier was 
more than willing to remedy these items. And it wanted to remind me that Mrs C had halted 
installation and asked for the base units to be removed and reinstalled once shed arranged 
for the flooring to be laid (which did not form part of this contract). It said this would likely 
have led to some damage because the units are not designed to be installed, removed and 
installed again.
BPF also said it was concerned about the emphasis being put on the durability of the kitchen 
when there hadnt been an independent view on this, and its not clear how the damage 
shown in Mrs Cs photos has been caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered BPFs response to my provisional decision very carefully. I accept that in 
February 2020 when the independent report was carried out six faults were identified. This 
meant the kitchen had not been installed to an entirely satisfactory standard. And I agree 
that, if these were the only problems, repair and replacement of those items would most 
likely be a proportionate remedy. 
But Mrs C has provided numerous photos which evidence many more issues with the 
kitchen  mainly chips and flaking paint as outlined in my provisional decision. 
I understand what BPF says  that theres no hard evidence to say how this damage has 
been caused and its possibly been caused due to lack of care. I want to reassure BPF that 
I did take this into consideration in arriving at my earlier conclusions. It is possible that Mrs C 
did not look after the kitchen as well as she might have done because she was so 
disappointed with it. But, even allowing for this, I wouldnt expect the amount of damage as 
evidenced in the photos.
In arriving at my earlier conclusions, I also took into account that Mrs C halted installation 
and required the base units to be removed and refitted. And I can see that the supplier has 
tried hard to resolve things. But I think removing the worktops or providing Mrs C with a 
discount (as offered most recently by the supplier) and fixing the faults identified in the 
independent report, will still leave Mrs C with a kitchen that is not of satisfactory quality.
So, after careful consideration, I see no reason to depart from my earlier conclusions  
I dont think repair is a reasonable remedy here.
My final decisionMy final decision is that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance, should:
1. Remove the kitchen at a convenient time to both parties  accepting this will be largely 
driven by the timetable for Mrs C sourcing a replacement.
2. If, in removing the existing kitchen, any remedial work is required  for example to 
flooring or plastering  BPF will need to arrange to pay for this, on receipt of invoices for 
the work.
3. Refund the deposit paid.
4. Refund any payments made towards the agreement.
5. BPF should add 8% simple interest to the payments it makes under 3 and 4 above, from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
6. Pay Mrs C a further £400 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires BPF to take off tax from this interest. BPF must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.)  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman