DRN-4075286
The complaint
Mr R complained about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds market valuation on a van 
when he claimed on his commercial vehicle insurance policy
What happened
After the van was unfortunately stolen in about July 2022, Haven offered Mr R £16,820.40 
less policy excess for its market value at first, which they then increased to £17,700.  
Mr R said he couldnt buy a like for like van with that. It had cost £21,500 when bought in  
August 2021, and it had a high specification and a very low mileage. He said hed 
deliberately bought a van that age and low mileage to avoid emission charges and future 
changes to that scheme. He provided adverts for vans as close to his as possible in terms of 
specification and mileage, but all were more expensive and still cost about £22,000-24,000. 
He wanted Haven to send him details of all similar available vehicles that could be bought for 
what they had offered. He was unhappy that he was worse off only a year later. 
He also said hed lost out on more than £3,000 of work opportunities while trying to find a 
replacement van and dealing with this complaint.
I note here that, as Haven are aware, the van was purchased by Mr Rs partner, Miss N.  
The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that Haven hadnt acted unfairly in 
valuing the van. Mr R didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained to Mr R our approach regarding complaints about vehicle 
valuations. We dont decide what the market value of a vehicle is; we merely consider 
whether the insurer has reached a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the 
valuations in the trade guides, as well as any other evidence the parties may provide. We 
find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on 
nationwide research and likely sales figures. That other evidence might include 
advertisements detailing the sale prices of similar vehicles, but we bear in mind that vehicles 
usually sell for less than the advertised price, so we think that an insurer isnt bound by any 
advertised prices.
Ive looked at his policy and see that market value is the cost of replacing the vehicle with 
one of similar make, model and specification, taking into account its age, mileage and 
condition. and that Haven will refer to guides to determine it. They said theyd had their 
engineer asses it value by reference to the guides. 
Our investigator also looked at the three trade guides on which valuations were available 
and obtained valuations as follows:
(A) £14,017
(B) £15,750
( C ) £18,236
The average of these was £16,001. As Haven offered £17,700, which was at the higher end 
of the range of values, the investigator thought that was fair. 
Mr R referred to adverts of similar cars, none of which were available for what Haven had 
offered him. He wanted about £20,000. But Haven wouldnt agree.
Mr R felt that the guides didnt consider contributing factors such as geographical location, 
abnormalities on specification, condition or special measures such as mileage out of 
valuation parameters and market saturation, which would affecting demand and value. 
However we find the guides to be based on nationwide sales figures and to be persuasive. 
He also said that his van still had a low mileage of 15,000 miles at time of loss , and not the 
23,800 miles the investigator estimated. However Havens file includes a copy of the vans 
purchase invoice and gave its last known mileage as 16,265 miles, so it wasnt 
unreasonable of the investigator to estimate the increase to 23,800 at the time of loss. He 
said it was a high and rare specification including sport alloy wheels and metallic paint. It had 
been well maintained and they had spent £500 on sign advertisements on it. However we 
find that extra features such as these do not necessarily add value, and nor does 
personalisation.  
I think that overall Haven have valued the van in line with our guidance and in accordance 
with the guides and I so I think their valuation was fair and reasonable and I dont require 
them to do anything else. I dont make any award for Mr Rs claimed loss of work opportunity 
through not having a van. I think that Haven made their offer within a reasonable time after 
the van was stolen, and Mr R also rejected Havens offer of an interim settlement payment 
pending resolution of this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
