DRN-1807625
The complaint
Mr E complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI) unfairly declined his 
insurance claim for the theft of his mobile phone. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on setting out the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
The policy terms and conditions state:
Losses incurred as a result of the sale of your device
We do not cover any loss of your device or any loss of money expected from any 
transaction, through the sale or trade of your device. 
This is because the device will have been actively passed to an individual or business 
and, therefore, no loss or theft has taken place. We therefore recommend you take 
precautions if you sell your device, such as:
Ensuring your device is sent using a reliable and suitably insured delivery service.
Waiting for payment (including waiting for cheques to clear) before releasing your 
device.
Using a secure payment service.
Not accepting cash payments from people you dont know (who could be using 
forged banknotes).
 
In his testimony, Mr E has stated that he had met up with two people with the intention of 
selling his mobile phone. He says he handed over the phone for inspection on the 
assumption that it would either be returned or exchanged for cash. But instead, he was 
shoved and put off balance and the two people ran off with his device. As a result, Im 
satisfied that the loss occurred as a result of the sale of Mr Es device  such that it is 
caught by the above policy exclusion.
Mr E submits that the clause only applies to scenarios where a sale has completed and a 
cheque has bounced, for example. But the policy exclusion is not limited to this specific 
scenario. It is broad enough to encompass all types of sale, and even sets out a precaution 
that directly applies to the loss of Mr Es device (i.e. waiting for payment before releasing the 
device). I appreciate it mentions waiting for cheques to clear, but the wording clearly implies that this is just a non-exhaustive example. And the list of precautions are designed to 
prevent the very scenario that Mr E experienced from occurring. 
Mr E also submits that the exclusion cannot apply because the conditions of a sale were 
not met, and because no transaction actually took place. But I do not consider the that the 
exclusion requires all technical elements of a 'sale' to be met in order to apply. It states that it 
will not cover the loss of your device of any loss of money expected from any transaction, 
through the sale or trade of your device. 
As such, I consider the intention of selling the phone to be enough for this clause to respond. 
I do not consider the term to be ambiguous in this respect, and there is nothing inherent in 
the wording that would indicate that an actual sale must take place in order for it to apply. 
Indeed, a sale by definition would rarely ever be able to be completed in circumstances 
where one of the parties does not live up to their end of the bargain.
I accept that a crime has undoubtedly been committed here, and I sympathise with the 
distress this must have caused Mr E. But the circumstances of this sort of crime/loss of his 
device are clearly excluded by the policy terms and conditions. So I do not consider AGI to 
have declined his claim unfairly
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman