DRN-4195008
The complaint
The estate of Ms M is unhappy with the way in which AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim 
made on Ms Ms travel insurance policy and medical assistance provided whilst
she was abroad.
Any references to AXA include its claim handlers and medical assistance team.
What happened
Ms M had the benefit of a single-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by AXA, which
covered a holiday abroad in May 2022 (the policy).
Whilst away with a relative, Ms M became ill and was taken to a public hospital in the 
country she was staying, where she was treated. Her son contacted AXA for medical 
assistance on 20 May 2022. 
A few days later, Ms Ms son raised concerns with AXA, including about the condition of the 
hospital and the way she was being spoken to by hospital staff.  And on or around 27 May 
2022, AXA arranged for Ms M to be moved to a private hospital. 
The estate of Ms M says that the treating doctors had advised that Ms M was fit to fly back to 
the UK by air ambulance for further treatment. However, AXAs medical team didnt agree. 
They wanted to ensure that the oxygen levels required by Ms M reached a certain minimum 
threshold and check if they remained stable at that level for a few days. AXA said it would 
then consider repatriation by air ambulance. 
On or around 9 June 2022, AXA agreed to Ms Ms repatriation by air ambulance. It looked 
into bed availability at hospitals near where to Ms M lived in the UK and air ambulance 
availability. However, very sadly, before Ms M could be repatriated back to the UK, her 
health deteriorated, and she died. 
The estate of Ms M is very unhappy with the overall support and medical assistance Ms M 
received from AXA since it was contacted including poor communication, delays in moving 
Ms M to the private hospital and repatriating her back home. The estate of Ms M says those 
delays likely caused Ms Ms death.
In its final response letter, AXA accepted that there were occasions when the level of 
communication fell short  including failing to respond to some of Ms Ms sons emails. It 
also accepted that it couldve dealt better with the requests to find and extend the dates of 
accommodation for the relative whod travelled with Ms M and whod stayed with her after 
the date on which theyd both been due to fly home due to Ms M being hospitalised. It 
apologised and offered the estate of Ms M £250 in compensation. 
However, AXA didnt accept that it had unreasonably delayed Ms Ms move to a private 
hospital or repatriation back to the UK. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, the estate of Ms M referred a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt recommend AXA to do anything 
more. The estate of Ms M disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to consider 
everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the 
estate of Ms M has, and in my own words. And Im not going to respond to every single point 
made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. The rules that govern our service allow me to do this as we are an informal 
dispute resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
overlooked it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be 
able to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome here.
Id also like to pass on my sincere condolences to the family of Ms M during an incredibly 
upsetting time.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with
the best interests of their customers. It also says they should handle insurance claims 
promptly and fairly - and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
AXA accepts that there were times when its communications couldve been better, and  in 
particular - that on occasions it didnt respond to Ms Ms sons emails. AXA also accepts that 
it shouldve handled better the requests around extending accommodation for the relative 
whod travelled with Ms M and had extended the trip to stay with her.  Its offered £250 
compensation in recognition of this.
Ms Ms son nor the relative whod travelled with Ms M are named beneficiaries under the 
policy and so they arent eligible complainants in respect of the complaint Ive been asked to 
decide. They hadnt entered into a contract of insurance with AXA. So, I dont have any 
power to direct AXA to pay them any compensation for distress and inconvenience theyve 
personally experienced because of what AXA reasonably ought to have done better.
However, Im satisfied some of the communication failings AXA accepts occurred in this 
case, wouldve also impacted Ms M as she wouldve been waiting to hear from her son with 
any updates about the situation she was in, including when it was likely shed be repatriated 
to the UK. And knowing that the relative with whom she travelled with was facing 
uncertainties about her accommodation is likely to have exacerbated an already very difficult 
situation for Ms M. 
I know the estate of Ms M will be very disappointed but apart from the service failures AXA 
has already identified in its final response, Im satisfied it has acted fairly and reasonably in 
the way in which it handled other aspects of the assistance provided. Ill explain why.
Looking at the photos Ms Ms son provided AXA at the time and the reports hed 
received from the relative whod travelled on holiday with Ms M at the time, which he 
communicated to AXA and are set out in emails sent to AXA and in its contact notes, 
I can understand why hed requested she be moved to another medical facility. AXA 
isnt responsible for the standard of care Ms M was receiving or the cleanliness of the 
hospital. However, upon being notified of the concerns, Im satisfied that it asked its agents abroad to raise this with the hospital and to seek assurances about the care 
provided. It also looked into moving Ms M to a private hospital which I think is 
reasonable and in line with what I wouldve reasonably expected it to do in the 
circumstances of this case. 
It took around 3 days for AXA for the move to take place. Again, from the estate of 
Ms Ms perspective, I understand why it thinks this was too long. However, I dont 
think AXA acted unreasonably by wanting to get an updated medical report from the 
public hospital to ensure that it was medically safe for Ms M to be moved at that time 
and awaiting the results of further tests that were being undertaken around that time. 
It also had to make enquiries with private medical facilities about availability. Im 
satisfied from the contact notes provided by AXA that it was proactively trying to get 
further updates from the treating doctor  who, at times, was unavailable during this 
period. And it was reasonable to try to do this before agreeing that based on the 
available information there was no clinical reason why Ms M couldnt be moved to a 
private hospital.
The treating doctors at the public hospital - and subsequently at the private hospital - 
advised that Ms M was fit to fly back to the UK for treatment by air ambulance. But 
the contact notes reflect that AXAs medical team didnt agree. Im not medically 
trained but having considered the evidence, I think it was reasonable for AXA to
consider the totality of the information available when weighing up the best course of
action for Ms M including the nature of her illness and pre-existing medical condition, 
opinions of the treating doctors, her vital signs, saturations levels and the level of 
oxygen she required. Im satisfied that it was regularly reviewing Ms Ms situation 
against updated medical information and AXAs medical team also spoke with the 
treating doctors. AXAs contact notes reflect that Ms M still required high levels of 
oxygen and conditions affecting the lungs can be impacted by cabin pressure. AXAs 
medical team concluded that the level of oxygen Ms M required needed to be at a 
certain level for a sustained period before it was safe for her to be repatriated by air 
ambulance.
From the available information, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the treating doctors 
had advised that Ms M needed to be urgently repatriated to the UK given her 
condition. Although its clear and understandable, that Ms Ms family wanted her back 
in the UK, there are other considerations to be taken into account before repatriation 
can take place. Im not a medical or aviation expert but the considerations raised - 
and risks identified - by AXAs medical team at the time do seem fair and reasonable 
and make sense to me.
Once Ms Ms need for oxygen fell to the levels AXAs medical team felt comfortable 
with, Im satisfied that AXA promptly started taking steps to repatriate Ms M by air 
ambulance. It made enquiries about available hospital beds in hospitals close to 
where Ms M lived in the UK given her medical needs and air ambulance costs and 
availability. During this time, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to request 
updates on Ms Ms health, her vital signs and saturation levels and oxygen 
requirements  to ensure there was no further change to her health, she remained 
stable and so the air ambulance company had the most up to date medical 
information. 
From AXAs contact notes, Im satisfied that there were issues with air ambulance 
availability for that week to collect Ms M from the country shed travelled to and 
repatriate her back to the UK. Im also satisfied that AXA was in the process of confirming a date for Ms Ms repatriation when receiving notification that Ms M had 
been transferred back to intensive care and reliance of oxygen had significantly 
increased once more. So, I can understand why AXA discussed delaying possible 
repatriation by air ambulance until the oxygen levels she required reduced. And thats 
consistent with the advice of AXA medical team throughout Ms Ms stay at the private 
hospital. 
Ms M sadly died shortly after. However, Ive seen no evidence that this was due to 
the delays in her being repatriated back to the UK. And given my findings above, I 
dont think AXAs decision not to authorise repatriation by air ambulance until around 
9 June 2022 - and the time taken to then arrange a date for repatriation - was unfair 
or due to unreasonable delays caused by AXA. Until it was agreed by AXAs medical 
team that Ms M was fit to fly by air ambulance, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
AXA to not put in steps for repatriation to take place. There are too many variables 
which meant that AXA wouldnt have known when the oxygen she needed wouldve 
reduced to a satisfactory level and for a sustained period. And I dont think its 
reasonable for AXA to make enquires and possibly incur costs based on speculative 
dates  which might not have been met.
For a period of time whilst Ms M was in hospital, her son had travelled to the country 
she was in to see her. I dont think his travel and accommodation expenses are 
covered under the policy. The terms of the policy do provide cover for a travelling 
companion, friend of close relative to stay with the policyholder or to travel to be with 
the policyholder from the UK or to escort them. But AXA had already agreed to cover, 
in principle, the accommodation costs for the relative whod originally travelled with 
Ms M on holiday and had stayed with her rather than returning to the UK on her 
scheduled flight. It also agreed to cover the cost of her return flight after Ms Ms 
death. 
The estate of Ms M has also raised concerns that some expenses including certain 
accommodation costs of the family member whod initially travelled on holiday with Ms M 
and stayed with her once she was hospitalised havent been paid and taxi costs to and from 
the hospital. As our investigator explained, the estate will need to contact AXA about making 
a claim for those costs, so they can be considered by AXA in line with the terms of the policy 
in the first instance. 
Putting things right
I understand from the estate of Ms M that the offer of £250 set out in the final response letter 
wasnt accepted so hasnt been paid by AXA. 
That being the case, Im satisfied that AXA should pay the estate of Ms M £250 
compensation for distress and inconvenience its already offered to pay.
My final decision
AXA Insurance UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £250 to the estate of Ms M to settle 
the complaint and I think thats fair in all the circumstances. My decision is that AXA 
Insurance UK Plc should pay £250 to the estate of Ms M if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms M 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman