DRN-3979600
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain that their interest-only mortgage with Santander UK Plc wasnt 
transferred to a new fixed rate product as agreed during a call in 2019, and the mortgage 
reverted to Santanders Standard Variable Rate (SVR) which was more expensive. They say 
they were unable to contact Santander again to arrange a new deal until 2022, resulting in 
them paying around £25,000 more in interest.
Mrs W and Mr W also complain that Santander didnt action their request to change the day 
of their monthly payments and it incorrectly reported the account as being in arrears to credit 
reference agencies. They say this resulted in them being unable to get a loan or purchase a 
new property, and the matter has had a serious impact on Mrs Ws health.
What happened
Mr W was living and working abroad and says he called Santander in November 2019 to 
arrange a new fixed interest rate product. He says the call cut out, but this was after a new 
product had been agreed and the mortgage transferred to the new rate. He says he tried to 
call Santander back, but he wasnt successful, and Santander didnt get back in contact with 
him.
Santander didnt issue a product transfer offer, and upon the expiry of Mrs W and Mr Ws 
existing product, the mortgage reverted to Santanders Standard Variable Rate (SVR), which 
was considerably more expensive than the rate Mrs W and Mr W say had been agreed 
during the call. 
Mr W says that by the time he realised something was wrong, the Covid-19 pandemic had 
started, and he found it impossible to get in touch with Santander. Mr W says he eventually 
managed to speak to someone at Santander in February 2022 and a new fixed rate product 
was agreed. Mrs W and Mr W say they had paid around £25,000 more in interest by this 
point.
The transfer to a new fixed interest rate was completed on 19 March 2022 and on 22 March 
2022 Santander wrote to Mrs W and Mr W to set out how this would affect their monthly 
payments. This confirmed their next payment was due on 28 March 2022.
Santander says it didnt receive the payment due on 28 March 2022 and arrears accrued on 
the account between March and April 2022, which werent cleared in full until June 2022. 
Santander reported information about the arrears to credit reference agencies.
Mrs W and Mr W say they had asked Santander to move their monthly payment date from 
28th to the 16th of the month, so a payment wasnt due on 28 March 2022 and feel they 
made the correct payments at the correct time. Therefore, they feel the information reported 
to credit reference agencies was incorrect.
Mrs W and Mr W say theyve since been unable to secure a loan or purchase a new 
property. They also say the matter has had a serious impact on Mrs Ws health. 
Mrs W and Mr W registered a complaint with Santander. In summary, they complained that it 
didnt apply the fixed rate deal agreed in November 2019, it didnt action their request to 
change their monthly payment date and it has reported inaccurate information to credit 
reference agencies, which has prevented them from being able to get further lending. 
Santander issued its final response letter in April 2022 and two follow up responses in 
June 2022. In summary, it said:
- The monthly repayments are paid one month in arrears and because the call was 
made on 18 March 2022, the new payments wouldnt start until April. 
- It had provided information about the end of the fixed term, and it was                     
Mrs W and Mr Ws responsibility to contact it to arrange a new product. 
- When the call disconnected, it was Mrs W and Mr Ws responsibility to contact it 
again and pursue the matter.
- The information it had reported to credit reference agencies was a true reflection of 
Mrs W and Mr Ws mortgage account.
Unhappy with the responses they received from Santander, Mrs W and Mr W registered a 
complaint with our service.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs W and Mr Ws complaint, but he didnt think it should 
be upheld. In summary, he said he wasnt persuaded a new fixed rate had been agreed and 
he didnt think Mrs W and Mr W had been prevented from contacting Santander. He also 
said hed seen no evidence to show Mrs W and Mr W had asked to change the day they 
made their monthly payments, and he felt the information showing on Mr Ws credit record 
was accurate.
Mrs W and Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. As agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has told us that a new fixed rate product was agreed during his conversation with 
Santander in November 2019, and he thought the transfer to a new product had been 
finalised before the call cut out.
I havent been able to listen to this conversation, so I cant be certain about exactly what was 
discussed. However, I havent seen any evidence to show Santander issued a product 
transfer offer or provided any written confirmation that a transfer to a new product had taken 
place at that time. Im therefore not persuaded that this was agreed and finalised during the 
conversation that took place in November 2019.Ive also reviewed Santanders contact notes from November 2019. Whilst theres a note to 
say the call was dropped and Mr W wanted online access to manage the mortgage, theres 
no reference to a new rate being agreed. 
Ive taken into consideration that Mrs W and Mr W say they tried to follow things up with 
Santander once they realised the mortgage had moved to its SVR, but they couldnt reach 
anyone until February 2022. However, Santanders contact notes show it received calls from 
Mr W in 2020. Notably, theres a record showing Santander received an incoming call from 
Mr W in June 2020, and the notes say there was a discussion about rate changes and a 
suggestion was made for Mr W to check Santanders website for deals.
Considering this, Im not persuaded Mrs W and Mr W were prevented from speaking to 
Santander or applying for a new product before March 2022.
A transfer to a new fixed rate was completed on 19 March 2022 and Mrs W and Mr W say 
their next payment wasnt due until 16 April 2022, and this was for the new rate amount of 
£678.93.
However, Santander says a payment of £1,462.84 was due on 28 March 2022 and arrears 
accrued on the mortgage account between March and April 2022.
Mrs W and Mr W dont agree. They say they had asked Santander to change their monthly 
payment date from 28th to the 16th of the month and they are satisfied they made the correct 
payments at the correct time.
Ive considered the information available to me and I can see that on 22 March 2022, 
Santander sent an email to Mrs W and Mr W explaining they would receive the mortgage 
completion statement in the post within the next few days. Notably, it said:
It is important that you read the statement as the first couple of payments could differ to 
your new monthly payment.
A letter was sent to Mrs W and Mr W the same day. This set out how the transfer to the new 
product would affect their monthly payments. This confirmed that a payment of £1,462.84 
would be collected on 28 March 2022 and a payment of £484.62 would be collected on      
28 April 2022. It also said:
 
please note that this figure can be higher or lower than your regular monthly payment 
because of interest adjustments being made for your transfer.
It went on to state the regular monthly payments of £678.93 will be collected on 28th of each 
month.
On the same day, Santander sent another letter to Mrs W and Mr W explaining it had been 
told Mrs W and Mr Ws direct debit had been cancelled and asked them to set up a new one 
as soon as they could. This also confirmed the next payment was due on 28 March 2022.
Im satisfied that the information provided to Mrs W and Mr W shortly after the transfer took 
place made it clear when the next payments were due, the amounts that were due and that 
the first couple of payments could differ from the new monthly payment due to interest 
adjustments being made for the transfer.
I also cant see any evidence of a change of payment date being requested by                  
Mrs W and Mr W until Santanders letter dated 18 July 2022 confirming a change in payment 
date effective from August 2022. Its clear that Mrs W and Mr W do not agree that the payments and the collection dates set 
out in the payment schedule are correct, but I cant see they contacted Santander to query 
this before any payments were missed, which I would have expected. I also havent seen 
anything to suggest that the payment schedule is incorrect.
Ive reviewed the schedule and Santanders records of the payments it received. It is 
important to note that Mrs W and Mr W make their payments one month in arrears. I can see 
the correct payment was received on 28 February 2022, but no payment was received in 
March 2022, so the amount of £1,462.84 due on 28 March 2022 remained outstanding. A 
payment of £678.93 was received on 13 April 2022 and this reduced the amount outstanding 
from March 2022 to £783.91. The payment of £484.62 due on 28 April 2022 wasnt received, 
and the arrears on the account totalled £1,272.91. 
Santander received the payment due on 28 May 2022. However, the arrears that had 
accrued between March 2022 and April 2022 werent cleared in full until June 2022. 
Having reviewed the information provided, Im satisfied Santander has recorded the arrears 
on Mrs W and Mr Ws account correctly. 
Ive also reviewed what has been recorded on Mr Ws credit file and Im satisfied this is a 
true reflection of how the mortgage account was managed. It follows that I wont be asking 
Santander to remove this information.
I do appreciate the impact the matter has had on Mrs W and Mr W and that this isnt the 
outcome they were hoping for. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint. Mrs W and Mr W may wish to seek independent financial advice. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Michelle Griffiths
Ombudsman