DRN-3496676
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) are holding him liable for 
cash withdrawals from his credit card account which he says he didnt make.
What happened
On 10 September 2021, Mr A contacted JLFS to report nine Automated Teller Machine 
(ATM) withdrawals that debited his credit card account between 18 August 2021 and 9 
September 2021 as unrecognised. The transactions amounted to £800 in total plus cash 
advance fees.
JLFS said they were holding Mr A liable for these transactions as they were made using his 
genuine card which was still in his possession and Personal Identification Number (PIN). 
Unhappy with this, Mr A raised a complaint. JLFS said they couldnt change their decision 
but gave him £50 for customer service he received.
Our investigator was satisfied Mr A had authorised the transactions and didnt ask JLFS to 
refund him. Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules, JLFS can hold Mr A liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made them himself or allowed someone 
else to do so.
The technical evidence that JLFS have provided shows that the ATM withdrawals were 
authenticated using Mr As genuine card and the correct PIN number. This means whoever 
made the withdrawals needed to be in possession of both Mr As credit card and his PIN.
Mr A has confirmed that his card was in his possession at the time of reporting the disputed 
transactions. He has said that no one apart from him had access to his card and he carried 
his card around. He has confirmed that nobody but him knows his PIN which he hasnt 
written down anywhere. He remembers the PIN by heart as its the same number hes used 
for years. He has also told us that he lives with his wife and son, but they dont know his PIN 
and he doesnt suspect them. 
If this were the case, then its difficult to see how fraudsters were able to carry out these 
transactions using Mr As genuine card and PIN. Ive thought about the explanation Mr A has 
offered for how the fraud occurred. He strongly believes his card was cloned or skimmed 
and pointed us to an online article describing how these scams work.
Mr A has explained that fraudsters use pinhole cameras to obtain the PIN and they use a 
false face at ATMs to read the magnetic strip on the back of the card giving them all the 
details they need to make a clone. 
However, Im satisfied that Mr As card and PIN werent compromised in the way hes 
described. The audit report doesnt show that he used his card at an ATM on or around the 
date the disputed transactions started. 
I also dont disagree that its possible for fraudsters to clone the magnetic strip of card, but 
were yet to see sufficient evidence to show that a chip can be cloned too. The ATM 
withdrawals disputed here involved the chip being read and verified to authenticate the 
transactions. So, cloning the magnetic strip of Mr As card wouldnt have been enough for 
the fraudsters to make the disputed ATM withdrawals.
Based on this, Im persuaded that Mr As genuine card which he says has been in his 
possession was used to make the ATM withdrawals. 
Ive looked at the period over which the withdrawals were made  from 18 August 2021 to 9 
September 2021. Given that nine disputed transactions took place over three weeks, I think 
its unlikely that a fraudster intercepted Mr As card, withdrew funds and then replaced the 
card without him noticing on multiple occasions. 
Also, on 21 August 2021, an ATM withdrawal of £60 was made at 12.27pm. Around a couple 
of hours later, on the same day, Mr A has confirmed making a genuine transaction at 
2.59pm. I think the likelihood of a fraudster taking and replacing Mr As card in such a short 
window is very unlikely as it significantly increases the risk of Mr A discovering the fraud.
Taking everything into account, I think the most plausible explanation is that Mr A authorised 
the transactions. So, I cant fairly ask JLFS to refund him.
I appreciate Mr A feels that JLFS shouldve contacted him to make sure it was him carrying 
out the ATM withdrawals as he doesnt use his credit card account to draw money out. 
However, I dont think this alone is enough to say that JLFS shouldve been concerned about 
the disputed transactions.
I dont think the spending pattern on the account wouldve raised red flags as so out of the 
ordinary or suspicious. I say this because the withdrawals werent for the full daily limit, they 
were authorised with the PIN, they were spaced out over a few days and there werent any 
other unusual transactions on the account. So, I wouldnt reasonably have expected JLFS to 
carry out further checks.
Mr A is also unhappy that JLFS didnt check CCTV footage to identify who carried out the 
withdrawals. But even if Mr A didnt appear in the footage, it doesnt rule out the possibility 
that he allowed someone else to use his card which also counts as him authorising the 
transactions.
I realise this will be disappointing for Mr A and Im sorry to hear hes been going through a 
difficult time with his mental health. But for the reasons Ive explained, I find that Mr A 
authorised the transactions and it follows JLFS are entitled to hold him liable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman