DRN-3517932
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd defaulted and closed her account without any 
written notice.
What happened
Miss S had an account with Monzo. Monzo defaulted and closed Miss Ss account without 
providing any written notice to her. Miss S wasnt happy about this, so she raised a 
complaint.
Monzo looked at Miss Ss complaint. They confirmed they had given notice via email and in-
app messaging to Miss S of the outstanding balance on her account as well as the 
consequential steps that led to her account being defaulted and her account being closed. 
Monzo also noted that Miss S had responded to several of these messages, and so they 
didnt feel theyd acted unfairly by defaulting the account for non-payment when they did.
Miss S wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Monzo had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold this complaint.
Miss S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its clear that Monzo did send Miss S numerous correspondence about the 
balance that was considered as being outstanding on her account in the form of emails and 
in-app messages. And its also clear that Miss S responded to several of these messages, 
thereby confirming that she received them.
Im also satisfied from the aforementioned correspondence that Miss S was given fair and 
reasonable notice of Monzos intention to default her account for continued non-payment, 
and also of their intention to close the account. Indeed, I note that Miss S responded to 
Monzo and confirmed that she didnt intend to pay the outstanding balance and requested 
Monzo to close her account immediately.
Miss S has stated that she didnt receive any written letters from Monzo advising of the 
default of the closure of the account. This may be correct, but as explained, Im satisfied that 
Monzo did correspond with Miss S about these points on many occasions via email and in-
app messaging, and given that Monzo are primarily an online app-based bank, this doesnt 
seem unfair or unreasonable to me.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Monzo did provide Miss S with clear and consistent 
communication about the outstanding balance on her account and the possible 
consequences of that balance remaining unpaid  including the potential defaulting and 
closure of the account that eventually took place. 
Im also satisfied that Miss S received and understood these communications from Monzo, 
given that she responded to them, and so I dont feel that there has been any unfair outcome 
here in regard to the communication from Monzo to Miss S as Miss S has alleged.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Monzo to take any 
further action. I realise this wont be the outcome Miss S was wanting, but I trust shell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman