DRN-2570469
The complaint
Mr A, on behalf of N, complains that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd unfairly declined a 
claim made under a retail insurance policy following losses suffered as a result of the impact 
of Covid-19. 
What happened
At the time of the events in question, N had the benefit of a retail insurance policy 
underwritten by China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd. 
In April 2020, Mr A made a claim on that policy to cover Ns losses arising out of the closure 
of N from 23 March 2020 due to the national government-imposed lockdown intended to 
control the spread of Covid-19. China Taiping declined the claim, saying no cover was 
provided by the policy in the circumstances. 
China Taiping said that the main basis of coverage for business interruption under the policy 
applied in relation to interruption caused by damage. But as Covid-19 had not caused 
damage, the main cover was not applicable. China Taiping also said there were extensions 
to the cover provided. But said that under extension B, the Disease extension, only claims 
relating to certain diseases listed in the policy were covered and that Covid-19 was not one 
of the listed diseases. And China Taiping said the policy did not provide cover for pandemics 
or any government enforced closure. 
Mr A complained about this decision, but China Taiping did not alter its decision to decline 
Ns claim. As Mr A remained unhappy, he brought the complaint to this service. Our 
investigator considered the entire policy, but focused his response on the main Damage 
coverage, and the extensions relating to Prevention of Access, Disease and Public 
emergency. The investigator thought China Taiping had fairly applied the terms of the policy 
to the circumstances of the claim. So, he did not consider the complaint should be upheld.
As N remained unsatisfied, this complaint has been passed to me for a decision. Mr A did 
not provide any further evidence. But he did say N had to close as a result of the action of a 
competent authority taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19. And that, following a recent 
Supreme Court case, he understood that all insurance has to pay out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on N. But, largely 
for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be upholding Ns complaint. Ill explain 
why. 
Before doing so though, I will just make reference to the court judgment Mr A has referred to. 
The Financial Conduct Authority pursued a test case through the High Court and the 
Supreme Court so that various issues around business interruption insurance claims relating 
to the Covid-19 pandemic could be resolved. The High Court delivered its judgment on 
15 September 2020 and the Supreme Court delivered its judgment on the appeals made to 
the decision in the first instance on 15 January 2021. Further information on this and links to 
the judgments in FCA v Arch Insurance ( UK ) Ltd and Others [2021] UKSC 1 (the test case) 
can be found on the FCA website - https://www.fca.org.uk/firms/business-interruption-
insurance.
The test case considered the wording of several specific policies to address common 
themes. In some areas the courts found that cover might be provided to policyholders in the 
circumstances. But in other areas the courts found that cover was unlikely to be provided. It 
was not the case that all policies were found to provide cover for all claims. 
In determining a complaint, this service takes into account, amongst other things, the 
relevant law  and that includes, where relevant, the test case judgments. But the starting 
point in this complaint is to consider the specific policy N took out and what situations the 
insurance it provides responds to. 
The type of cover N is looking to claim on is business interruption insurance. There are a 
range of business interruption insurance policies on the market covering different risks. For 
example, some only provide cover for basic things such as fire or flood, whilst others provide 
cover in more circumstances either as part of the policy or as optional add-ons.
Ive considered every aspect of the particular policy N holds with China Taiping to determine 
whether there are any sections that would require China Taiping to meet the claim N is 
making. Having done so, I dont think there are. However, I have limited discussion in this 
decision to the four areas of cover previously mentioned.
Before referring to these areas, for the sake of completeness, I will just confirm that two 
versions of the policy wording have been provided to this service in relation to this complaint. 
It appears a new version was introduced around the same time as Ns policy commenced. 
However, as the wording remains the same insofar as is relevant to the current complaint, I 
have not felt it necessary to make a finding on which particular version applies to Ns policy.
Damage
The cover provided under the main business interruption section of the policy applies where 
there is a loss following damage. Section 7 of the policy says, in part, cover is provided:
In the event of Damage to Property used by You at the Premises occupied by You 
for the purposes of the Business for which We have admitted liability under Sections 
1 2 or 4 of this Policy causing an interruption or interference to the Business which 
results in a reduction in the Gross Profit
Throughout the policy, those words highlighted bold are given a defined meaning. I do not 
consider it necessary for me to repeat all of these definitions. But it is worthwhile confirming 
that damage is defined as:
Material loss destruction or damage. 
So, for a claim to be covered under the main part of this section, an interruption or 
interference to Ns business must have been as a result of material loss destruction or 
damage. N has not provided any evidence to suggest that Covid-19 caused any damage or 
that this was the cause of any interruption or interference to Ns business. Ns business 
closed a result of the government lockdown, not because of damage. So, I consider China Taiping acted fairly and reasonably when saying that this part of the policy did not provide 
cover for Ns claim.
Prevention of Access
Section 7 of Ns policy is extended by a number of extensions. The first of these provides 
cover in the event of:
Damage to property in the vicinity of the Premises caused by any of the Insured 
Perils included under Sections 1 and 2 of this Policy which prevents or hinders the 
use of or access to the Premises.
This provides a partial extension of the main cover under section 7, by referring to property 
potentially outside of the control of N; i.e. property in the vicinity of Ns premises. But this 
section still requires that property to have been damaged. And, as above, N did not close as 
a result of any damage having been caused to property. So, again, I consider China Taiping 
acted fairly and reasonably when deciding not to meet the claim under this part of the policy. 
Disease
Extension B of section 7 relates to the cover provided where the occurrence of a disease on 
the premises of the insured results in the use of the premises being restricted on the order or 
advice of the competent authority. N has not said that there was any case of Covid-19 on the 
premises, but even if there was, I do not consider this extension would provide cover. This is 
because the cover provided is limited to the occurrence of particular diseases. This 
extension relates to:
The occurrence of
(a) Acute Encephalitis Acute Poliomyelitis Anthrax Chickenpox Cholera Diphtheria 
Dysentery Legionellosis Legionnaires Disease Leprosey Leptospirosis Malaria 
Measles Meningococcal infection Mumps Opthalmia Neonatorum Paratyphoid Fever 
Plague Rabies Rubella Scarlet Fever Smallpox Tetanus Tuberculosis Typhoid Fever 
Viral Hepatitis Whooping Cough or Yellow Fever sustained by any person at the 
Premises
I appreciate that it would not be possible for Covid-19 to appear on this list, as it had not 
been identified at the time the policy was drafted. However, I must also take into account the 
way this policy has been drafted.
As mentioned above, there are a range of business interruption insurance policies on the 
market covering different risks. Significantly, where cover is provided for losses resulting 
from the incidence of a disease, some policies cover all notifiable diseases, whereas others 
only provide cover in relation to a specific list. 
The Health Protection (Notification) Regulations 2010 require a doctor, etc. to notify the 
relevant local authority if a patient is suspected of suffering from a notifiable disease. The 
list of notifiable diseases in these regulations is updated as new diseases are identified or 
considered a public health risk, and now includes Covid-19. 
But China Taiping specified a list of diseases that cover related to. It is also worth noting that 
this list was not the entire list of notifiable diseases as it existed at the time of drafting. It did 
not, for example, include Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which was an 
identified notifiable disease at the time. The list also included some diseases that are not 
defined as notifiable diseases, such as Chickenpox. China Taiping defined a finite list of specific diseases it was providing cover for under the 
policy. I dont think the policy can or should fairly be read as covering any and all illnesses 
that fall outside of the defined list set out above.
As well as only covering some of the notifiable diseases, there is nothing in the policy 
wording (which there could have been if that was what China Taiping wanted to cover) which 
suggests that the policy was intended to cover new diseases generally, or new diseases 
added to the notifiable diseases list from time to time. 
So, the policy clearly only intended to cover some of the known diseases at the point the 
policy was taken out. And I dont think it can fairly and reasonably be read in a different way.
So even if the cause of Ns closure had been due to an occurrence of Covid-19 on its 
premises, cover was not provided under this area of the policy for losses resulting from 
business interruption caused by Covid-19. As such, I am satisfied China Taipings decision 
to decline the claim under this extension was in line with the policy, and in all the 
circumstances of this case fair and reasonable. 
Public Emergency
Not all type of term were considered as part of the test case. However, the test case did 
consider some terms which are similar to that contained in extension F of section 7 of Ns 
policy. This extension says, in part, cover is provided in relation to:
The actions or advice of a competent Public Authority due to an emergency likely to 
endanger life or property in the vicinity of the Premises which prevents or hinders the 
use or access to the Premises
However, the policy also sets out what is not covered under this extension, and this includes:
Any loss
(e) as a result of infectious or contagious diseases 
Our investigator has explained that he considered this meant any prevention or hinderance 
of the use of or access to Ns premises, which was in consequence of an infectious or 
contagious disease, would not be covered by this part of the policy. 
Covid-19 is an infectious disease. And the restrictions imposed from March 2020 were 
intended to control the spread of, and so as a result of, this infectious disease. This is a point 
Mr A himself acknowledges. But this means the impact on Ns business from March 2020 is 
not covered by this section because the impact was as a result of an infectious disease, a 
circumstance specifically excluded. 
I agree with the investigators conclusions on this point and as they are set out above I 
consider this shows China Taiping reached its decision on the claim under this extension 
fairly and reasonably. 
However, as Mr A has referred to the test case, I will also confirm the findings the High Court 
reached on similar policy wordings. As I have previously mentioned, although the courts 
found that cover might be provided by some policy wordings, they did not consider this to be 
the case in all policies. One of the policies considered by the High Court was a policy provided by Ecclesiastical 
Insurance Office Plc. This contained similar wording in relation to the cover provided by Ns 
policy and also a similar exclusion.
In the High Court judgment, Lord Justice Flaux said (at paragraph 376): 
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March Government advice and in the 
21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local 
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an 
infectious disease. Accordingly, the [exclusion] applies and there is no cover under 
[the relevant policy] wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of the 
premises.
This part of the judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Count. And, looking at the terms 
the test case considered and the wording of Ns policy, I consider what the judge has said 
above does not alter my interpretation of Ns policy. So, I consider China Taiping reached its 
decision on the claim fairly and reasonably.
Having considered the rest of the policy carefully, I do not consider there to be any area of 
cover that means China Taiping should have met Ns claim. I know this decision will be 
disappointing for Mr A but I hope Ive provided him with a thorough explanation of why Ns 
policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ns complaint against China Taiping Insurance 
(UK) Co Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A, on behalf of 
N, to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman