DRN-1908409
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc blocked a payment he was trying to make.
What happened
Mr F says he tried to make a payment to another of his accounts from his HSBC account on 
17 November 2019. He says the payment was blocked and this has happened on a number 
of occasions over the last few years. Mr F says he will not speak to someone claiming to be 
from a fraud department which means he then has to contact HSBC to authorise the 
payment. He would like an explanation for what took place and for HSBC to amend its 
behaviour.
HSBC says the payment was for £20,000 and its systems held the payment due to security 
concerns. It says it called Mr F, but he wouldn't speak to it. HSBC says its actions were in 
line with the account terms and conditions.
Mr F brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought HSBC was entitled inline with account terms and conditions to block a payment 
where it had security concerns. The investigator also thought HSBC had tried to speak to Mr 
F and that the transaction was approved the next day.
Mr F doesn't accept that view and says the payment was to him and would have been 
covered by the compensation scheme. He would like a proper explanation why this problem 
keeps happening.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that HSBC hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly. I realise Mr F will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about this issue.
I have looked at Mr F's account terms and conditions which I think he would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. Those terms and conditions say that HSBC may not 
authorise a transaction where for example it has security or fraud concerns. I have no doubt 
that Mr F is aware of the problem of fraud as he takes the view that he doesn't wish to speak 
to a caller purporting to be from HSBC because he is concerned that he may be the victim of 
fraud. So I think banks and building societies must have fraud and security measures in 
place to protect its money and its customers money. But I appreciate that on occasions 
legitimate transactions can raise security concerns and may result in the transaction being 
blocked. I have no doubt that is what took place here. But I don't think HSBC made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by doing so, and I'm satisfied it acted in line with agreed terms and 
conditions.
I can see that HSBC did try to speak to Mr F shortly after the transaction was blocked. I appreciate why Mr F didn't wish to speak to HSBC and that of course is his choice. I think 
that had he done so the block could have been removed but in any event can see it was 
removed the following day. So I don't think Mr F was caused a significant amount of 
inconvenience.
I appreciate that Mr F would like to know why the transaction was blocked and that this 
wasn't the first time it has happened. I can't fairly order HSBC to provide Mr F with the exact 
reason as I think such matters are likely to be commercially sensitive and as Mr F knows, we 
are not HSBC's regulator. And so it's not our role to tell a business what its security 
measures should be.
I also appreciate that Mr F says the payment was to one of his other accounts with a 
different business. I don't think that matters or that he says his money may have been 
covered by the compensation scheme. I think that scheme protects money up to £85,000 in 
the event of a business failure and so that scheme would not protect against fraud. And I 
make clear that I think HSBC is entitled to have security and fraud measures to protect itself 
and its customers.
Overall I'm satisfied that HSBC has acted fairly here and hasn't made a mistake. I appreciate 
Mr F would like HSBC to change the way it operates its security policies. But for the reasons 
I have explained those are not matters I can fairly interfere in as we are not its regulator.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman