DRN-2442409
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains about chargebacks debited from its account by First 
Merchant Processing (Ireland) Limited trading as AIB Merchant Services. 
What happened
AIB acts as payment processing business, or merchant acquirer for L, who run a store 
selling luxury items. 
In early 2020 AIB debited Ls account with four large transactions due to chargebacks saying 
they had been disputed by the card holders. They said the transactions had been keyed into 
the card terminal rather than using chip and PIN.   
L didnt accept the chargebacks saying it thought the genuine cardholders were in the shop 
and that the transactions were made using chip and PIN. AIB disagreed so L brought its 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. They thought AIB was entitled to reach 
the decision they did based on the available information. L provided a lot of information in 
defence of the complaint which our investigator considered, but they were still of the opinion 
that AIB hadnt done anything wrong by processing the chargebacks. L remained unhappy 
so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L has provided quite a lot of information about this complaint. I want to assure L that Ive 
read and carefully considered everything it has provided. Ive summarised the complaint and 
condensed what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. If I dont 
mention a particular point raised by L it isnt because I havent considered it; I have, its 
because I feel I dont need to comment on every point to reach an outcome which I think is 
fair and reasonable.
I think its important to start by saying that its not my role to decide what happened at the 
time the transactions were completed in the store. Its my role to see whether I think AIB 
acted fairly and reasonably when processing the chargebacks and debiting Ls account. This 
is an important distinction as a lot of the information provided by L surrounds how the 
transactions happened.
I think its also important to say that I have no doubt L has been the victim of fraud and this 
has cost it money. But being a victim of fraud doesnt necessarily mean AIB was wrong to 
process the chargebacks.
The chargebacks are for four transactions all made on the same day in Ls store using two 
different cards for a total of £19,730. Since bringing the complaint to our service two of the 
chargebacks have been refunded by the card scheme. This leaves two chargebacks 
outstanding for a total of £7,500 both made on the same card. 
The evidence shows that all the transactions were keyed into the terminal. This means that 
the card details were entered manually, or swiped, rather than using the Chip and PIN 
functionality. Keyed, or Cardholder Not Present (CNP), transactions dont come with the 
same level of security as Chip and PIN. 
CNP transactions are at a higher risk of fraud as PIN verification isnt checked. CNP 
transactions produce an authorisation code which confirms that the card hasnt been 
reported lost or stolen, and that there are available funds in the account. But this 
authorisation isnt a guarantee of payment.
The Merchant Procedure Guide (MPG) contains the following information about CNP 
transactions:
Do not key a Card number into your Terminal for a Transaction where the Card and 
Cardholder are present, this leaves you open to the risk of chargeback
Remember you may be liable for a Chargeback, in some circumstances, even if you 
obtained Authorisation for a Transaction
Please remember that Authorisation is not a guarantee of payment. If a sale appears too 
good to be true, it probably is.
Under no circumstances should a card sale be split between two or more vouchers for the 
same Card 
Additionally if a customer presents more than one Card for payment please take care and 
complete additional checks to validate the Transaction.
CNP and ecommerce Transactions are taken totally at your own risk.
L says that the customer with the cards was in the store at the time of the transactions; so 
keying the transactions goes against the MPG.
The transactions on both cards were split; which also goes against the MPG.
The MPG says to make extra checks if a customer presents more than one card; but I 
havent seen any evidence this was done.
The documentation shows the transactions were keyed, so L was at risk for the transactions. 
Considering all of this Im satisfied that AIB correctly processed the chargebacks when the 
genuine cardholder disputed the transactions. 
L has provided a lot of information about what happened when the transactions were 
processed. In summary it says the transactions were started by store staff as Chip & PIN, 
but somehow the customer changed the transaction to keyed on the terminal.
When talking about the terminal the MPG says: 
Take care that the customer does not interfere with the Terminal or PIN pad.If I was to accept Ls theory about the customer interfering with the terminal and changing 
the transaction type I would still be of the same mind that AIB acted fairly and reasonably by 
debiting the chargebacks. If a customer was able to interfere to such an extent that the type 
of transaction was changed then I couldnt say that care was taken with the terminal as the 
MPG says it should be.
L has suggested that there is a flaw in the software or system which allowed the customer to 
change the transactions from Chip and PIN to keyed. However Ive seen no evidence this is 
the case. 
AIB says that what happened shouldve been noticed by store staff at the time as the 
terminal receipts say KEYED. L says that this is a subtle difference on the receipt that it 
wouldnt expect a salesperson to notice when then transaction started as Chip and PIN.
About staff using the terminal the MPG says:
It is your responsibility to ensure that all staff are properly trained in how to use your 
Terminal(s) and the security checks associated with checking Cards for payment
So whilst I agree the wording on the receipt is small, the MPG is clear that staff should be 
properly trained in how to use the terminal and conduct security checks.
Ive also taken into consideration that in its dealings with our investigator L said:
The procedure for the keyed transaction is completely different, we have done it knowingly 
many times 
Somewhat confusingly in later correspondence with our investigator L said:
 you are assuming that it is likely that our store manager on that day decided to perform 
four times in a row a type of payment that was never done before or after.  
These statements from L are contradictory. Whilst neither statement conclusively shows 
what actually happened that day in the store, they do show that the store staff were aware of 
the procedure for keyed transactions. 
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied that AIB acted fairly and reasonably 
when processing the chargebacks and debiting Ls account. Thats not to say that L hasnt 
been affected by what happened; it clearly has, but Ive seen no errors in how AIB acted.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman