DRN-3047339
The complaint
Ms H complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc was irresponsible in agreeing to let her have a 
loan. She is struggling to repay it and thinks it should be written off or reduced. She has 
been represented by a debt charity, which I shall refer to as M.
What happened
In April 2019 Ms H contacted Sainsburys Bank by telephone to apply for a loan. She had no 
previous relationship with the bank.
A loan of £7,500 was approved and the funds transferred to Ms Hs account with another 
bank. The loan was to be repaid over 42 months at a little over £192 a month.
On behalf of Ms H, M later said that Sainsburys Bank should not have agreed to the loan. M 
explained that Ms H suffers from a mental health condition and had no recollection of making 
the application. The details that were provided to the bank were not correct. The application 
recorded that Ms H had a salary of some £18,000 a year; in fact, she was dependent on 
benefits. She also has two dependent children. M said that the bank had not carried out 
appropriate checks and that, had it done so, it would have realised that Ms H could not 
afford to repay the loan. The complaint was referred to this service.
One of our investigators considered what had happened. He agreed that Sainsburys Bank 
had not carried out appropriate checks before approving the loan. Had it done so, he thought 
it was unlikely the loan would have been approved. To resolve the matter, the investigator 
thought that any loan payments that had been made should be deducted from the capital 
amount of the loan and all interest and charges should be removed.
Sainsburys Bank did not agree with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.
One of my ombudsman colleagues did that and issued a provisional decision. He was 
broadly in agreement with the investigator, although he said too that Sainsburys Bank 
should remove any adverse credit information from Ms Hs file. The first ombudsman was 
however not in a position now to issue a final decision and so the case was passed to me for 
further review.
Because I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the investigator 
and the first ombudsman, I issued a provisional decision. I set out below my findings:
When deciding whether or not to lend money, a bank should make checks to ensure that the 
lending is affordable for its customer. It should carry out proportionate checks. What is 
proportionate depends on the circumstances at the time  which might include, for example, 
the size of the loan, the lenders existing knowledge of its customer, the length of the loan 
and the payments needed.
I make the observation too in this case that it is not for me to decide whether the loan was 
affordable. It appears to be agreed that it was not. Rather, I must consider what the bank did 
to satisfy itself of that and whether it should have done more.
Sainsburys Bank had no existing relationship with Ms H. In deciding whether or not to 
approve the loan, it therefore relied to a very large extent on information that she provided. It 
made further checks on some matters, including checks with credit reference agencies and 
checks of Ms Hs address and bank account. But much of the key information, including 
information about Ms Hs income and outgoings, came from her. Ms H does not dispute that 
she provided information that was inaccurate  including that she was employed with an 
annual salary of £18,000, that she needed the loan to buy a car and that she had no 
dependents.
My starting point here is that the bank was entitled to proceed on the basis that what Ms H 
had told it was true and accurate. I would not expect it to turn a blind eye if there was a 
reason to think the information it was given might not be accurate, but neither would I expect 
it as a matter of course to seek further proof of what it was being told. In particular, I would 
not usually expect a bank to check a customers salary details for a loan of this size.
M has said that Ms H does not recall applying for the loan because of her mental health 
difficulties. But the bank, not having any existing relationship with her, would not have known 
about those issues. I would note however that the information that Ms H provided was 
entirely plausible. The bank had no reason to question it and  as I have said  no wider 
obligation to do so.
I do accept of course that further questions would probably have led Sainsburys Bank to a 
different lending decision. For example, Ms H would not have been able to produce pay slips 
or other evidence of her salary. Indeed, further questions would have shown not only that the 
loan was not affordable, but that Ms H had provided a lot of information which was not true. 
However, I must decide not whether further questions would have revealed the truth but 
whether the bank  in keeping with its obligation to make proportionate enquiries  should 
have asked them.
In my view, there was nothing in the application that suggested further checks were needed. 
The details Ms H provided were completely plausible. The bank says, and I accept, that it 
checked Ms Hs bank account statement (from which the loan payments were to be made) to 
ensure it was in her name and included her address. That however was a check to ensure 
that she was not setting up a direct debit from someone elses account. It was not a salary 
check.
For these reasons I believe that Sainsburys Bank carried out appropriate and proportionate 
checks before agreeing to the loan.
I note however that the loan has now been defaulted and that the bank is seeking to 
negotiate settlement of it  in line with its obligations to customers who are in financial 
difficulties. I would encourage Ms H (with the help of M) and the bank to continue to seek a 
satisfactory arrangement. I do not propose however to issue any direction to that effect or 
otherwise to make any award.
M, on behalf of Ms H, responded to my provisional award, and I summarise the points made:
The complaint was that the lending was irresponsible, but M had also asked the bank to 
write off the loan on economic and health grounds.
It is not strictly correct that Ms H accepts she provided incorrect information. She has no 
recollection of applying for the loan or of anything she might have told Sainsburys 
Bank.  FCA guidance says that it is not enough to rely solely on a statement of current income 
without independent evidence  CONC 5.2A.16.3. 
Sainsburys Bank did not ask about other debts, contrary to CONC 5.2A.25. 
The fact that Ms H cannot afford the loan is strong evidence that the credit assessment 
was inadequate and the lending irresponsible. 
Any credit report would not have shown a history of successful loan management, since 
Ms H had not previously had any loans. 
It is not the case that the bank is seeking to negotiate a settlement of the loan in line 
with its obligations. It has been dilatory in dealing with the matter and demanded 
inappropriate evidence from Ms H without meeting the costs of providing it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what M says about the characterisation of the complaint. I have considered here 
whether the lending decision in April 2019 was irresponsible. I stress that I have not 
considered the steps which Sainsburys Bank has taken or ought to have taken after it found 
out that Ms H was struggling to make repayments. I will however comment on that briefly at 
the end of this decision.
I accept that Ms H has no recollection of making the loan application and that therefore she 
does not recall what information she did or did not provide to the bank. On balance, 
however, I think it likely that she did indicate that she was earning £18,000 a year. I accept 
too that there was no intention to defraud the bank.  
Relevant rules and guidance about creditworthiness assessments are included in the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook at CONC 5.2A. Those rules require a lender to 
undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer before entering 
into a regulated agreement (CONC 5.2A.4R). In the Handbook, R denotes a rule and G 
denotes guidance. CONC 5.2A also provides:
An assessment must be based on sufficient information of which the lender is aware, 
obtained, where appropriate, from the customer and where necessary from a credit 
reference agency (CONC 5.2A.7R).
The lender must take reasonable steps to determine the customers income (CONC 
5.2A.15R). 
It is not generally sufficient to rely solely on what a customer says about their income 
without independent verification, for example, by information supplied by a credit 
reference agency or by third party documentation (CONC 5.2.16G).      
The extent and scope of the assessment should be reasonable and proportionate to the 
individual circumstances of the case (CONC 5.2A.20R).  
The amount of information taken into account will depend on the level of affordability 
risk (CONC 5.2A.24G).
Indications of a high level of affordability risk include where the level of existing debt is high relative to the customers income (CONC 5.2A.25G).
Overall, therefore, the effect of the rules and guidance is that, in assessing a customers 
creditworthiness, a lender should act reasonably and proportionately; what that means in 
practical terms will vary, depending on the circumstances. There is however no requirement 
that a lender seek, for example, pay-slips or bank account statements in each and every 
case. Had the FCA required that, the rules could have said that expressly; they are however 
written in a way that gives lenders rather more flexibility than that. 
Ms H had not previously taken out any loans, so did not have any credit history. That means 
of course that she had no history either of managing debt or of mismanaging it. The loan 
application indicates that Sainsburys Bank did ask about County Court judgments and 
bankruptcy, but there is no reference to other debt. But, since Ms H had no other debts, a 
high level of existing debt was not a risk factor in this case.   
I accept that Ms H is having difficulty repaying the loan  although I stress that I have not 
investigated that aspect of the matter. I have not seen, for example, evidence of Ms Hs 
current income and expenditure. But, even if that does show that the loan was unaffordable 
at the outset, it does not follow that the banks assessment in April 2019 was inappropriate 
or that it acted irresponsibly. Whilst in many cases they may overlap, unaffordability does not 
always equate to irresponsible lending. 
For these reasons, I remain of the view that the creditworthiness assessment that 
Sainsburys Bank carried out was reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances and 
that its lending decision was not irresponsible. 
Finally, I will comment briefly on Ms statement that Sainsburys Bank is not acting in 
accordance with its obligations towards customers who are having difficulty repaying debt. In 
saying in my provisional decision that the bank was seeking to negotiate a settlement, I was 
not making a finding that it was acting in line with those obligations. There is clearly a 
dispute about that. Since we have not investigated that, I make no further comment on it, 
save to note that we may be able to consider it as a separate complaint should that be 
necessary.  
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I do not require Sainsburys Bank Plc to do anything more to resolve Ms Hs complaint. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman