DRN-3687063
The complaint
Mr A complains that Fairstone Wealth Management Limited (Fairstone) mismanaged 
his pension because his funds remained in a cash account rather than being 
invested. Mr A believes hes suffered a financial loss as a result.
What happened
In November 2016, Mr A met Fairstone to discuss and review his existing defined benefit 
(DB) pension (with a transfer value of over £1.4 million) and a free-standing pension with 
a transfer value of around £247,000. According to a pensions report that Fairstone 
produced dated 17 November 2016, Mr As objectives were to explore whether he could 
improve the available options for his wife and children in the event of his death. It noted it 
was of paramount importance to Mr A that the value of his pensions was secured for his 
wife and children. Also, Mr A was concerned about his former employers financial 
viability when the time came to pay his pension. And he hoped to take advantage of the 
higher transfer values available at the time.
According to the fact find that Fairstone carried out, it noted, amongst other things, that 
Mr A worked in the financial sector and already had a fairly substantial amount invested in 
stocks and shares (Mr A has since pointed out that wasnt correct and he doesnt know 
where Fairstone got that information from). Having considered various options and noted 
that its advice was based solely on the potential transfer of the DB pension, Fairstone 
recommended Mr A transfer it to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with a provider 
Ill refer to as J. Based on its assessment that Mr A had a high attitude to risk, it set out a 
proposed asset allocation along with selections regarding specific investment funds. It 
also made the following comment: It is important to note that when constructing a 
portfolio, we may recommend investments which, on their own, fall into a different risk 
category to the one you have selected. However, it is the overall risk of the total portfolio 
which must be consistent with your attitude, rather than each individual investment taken 
in isolation.
Mr A accepted Fairstones advice and decided to transfer his DB pension into a SIPP with 
J. He paid Fairstone for its initial advice. And the active plan service he signed up to 
meant that, for an additional fee, Fairstone would carry out regular reviews.
From that point on, contact between Mr A and Fairstone 
included the following: 
2016
In early December, Mr A asked Fairstone how long it would take for his DB 
pension funds to be transferred. He also suggested meeting to discuss where 
they should be invested.
On 16 December Mr A asked Fairstone to contact him urgently, as he hadnt 
heard anything more. Fairstone responded and said the DB scheme was 
disinvesting the funds to pay the transfer value, which should take 2-3 weeks. It 
suggested meeting in early January 2017 to run through the asset allocation.
On 30 December, £1,414,925 was transferred into the SIPP. And once 
Fairstones fee was taken, £1,393,701.12 remained in the cash account.
2017
Mr A contacted Fairstone in early January to find out what was happening. 
Fairstone responded the same day confirming the pension funds had been 
transferred and it asked Mr A if he was free to meet the following week.
Mr A got in touch with Fairstone a couple of times that month as he said hed 
heard nothing from the SIPP provider. Fairstone responded on 25 January and 
said it had again requested details from J. Mr A responded the following day 
indicating he hadnt received fund selections from Fairstone. It responded on 31 
January with some suggestions about fund allocations.
On 27 February, Fairstone asked Mr A if hed had a chance to look over the 
fund selections it sent to him and if hed registered on Js platform.
Mr A responded on 13 March and apologised for not having responded sooner. 
He said hed looked at the funds recommended and was finding it hard to like 
them, but struggling to find something more interesting eitherhelp.
On 18 April, Fairstone asked Mr A if they could arrange a time to speak about 
fund allocation.
Its not clear, what, if any, further contact there was between April and 
September when Mr A wrote to Fairstone indicating he hadnt heard from it in a 
while. He said he was confused as, looking at his statement from J, he could 
see lots of fees, but no income. He asked when interest would be paid. He also 
said he needed to get some proper investments going as he didnt feel that 
Fairstone had been particularly proactive with his investments.
Fairstones adviser responded quickly and suggested that he and Mr A should 
meet up the following week to discuss things. It chased Mr A for a response a 
few days later. Mr A said he would struggle to meet that week, so he asked 
Fairstone to send him some firm proposals to consider with a view to meeting 
to discuss things shortly after.
Mr A then chased Fairstone in early October as he hadnt heard anything 
more. Fairstone again suggested meeting up. But Mr A again said it would be 
helpful to have some firm proposals to consider first. He added that nothing 
had been done and having proposals in advance would give him something to 
study, with a view to meeting up to finalise things.
Around 9 October Fairstone responded and attached an email it had apparently 
sent to Mr A at the start of the year, in which it included some possible 
investment options. It also said that it would recommend a slightly different 
portfolio now and included some fund suggestions  three low risk defensive 
funds and two global equity funds. It noted the latter, whilst higher risk, would 
give Mr A the potential for more growth in the long term. On 18 October, 
Fairstone asked Mr A if hed considered the portfolio it sent to him. And, a week 
or so later, it asked Mr A if hed like to meet up.
Mr A responded on 20 November suggesting they meet up a few days later. He 
also said rather than equities, can you suggest some other asset classes and 
relevant funds that you would recommend. Fairstone responded the following 
day to confirm it would meet Mr A. It also asked him what sort of assets/funds 
hed like to invest in. Mr A said I dont know which funds/assets exactly  I 
need some advice... what other non equity options do you suggest?.
The meeting scheduled for a few days later was postponed at Fairstones request, so it tried to rearrange it for the following week. Mr A responded on 28 
November, asking Fairstone to email him some investment recommendations. 
The adviser responded the following day saying that it wasnt simply a case of 
doing that, as they really needed to meet up to discuss things. Its not clear if 
there was further communication after that and the next email exchange 
appears to be in early 2018 (as set out below).
2018
On 8 January, Mr A suggested meeting the following week. It looks like the 
meeting was pushed back by a day (to 16 January) at Mr As suggestion. 
However, the adviser then suggested pushing the meeting date back further.
It looks like Mr A and Fairstone met up on or around 18 January.
On 24 January Mr A confirmed he hadnt received the further fund choices 
Fairstone planned on sending him (as apparently discussed the week before). 
Fairstone responded on 30 January and asked if it could call Mr A, as it needed 
to clarify a couple of things.
On 29 January, Fairstone wrote to Mr A about his annual pension review. It 
also reminded him that his funds remained in cash.
It looks like a conversation took place on or around 2 February. And on 20 
February Fairstone asked Mr A if he wanted it to transfer some of the assets to 
the fund theyd looked at. £250,000 was transferred around 22 February. The 
rest of the fund remained in cash.
Its unclear what, if anything, happened for the remainder 
of that year. 
2019
In September Fairstone wrote to Mr A to notify him of a change in his financial adviser. 
The new adviser contacted Mr A around October to offer a financial review.
Mr A complained to Fairstone in December. He said its earlier letter about a change of 
adviser hadnt addressed the lack of service hed received up to that point - despite 
paying ongoing fees.
2020
Fairstone responded in April. It partially upheld Mr As complaint. It didnt uphold the part 
of the complaint relating to a lack of investment, largely because the SIPP provider, J, had 
sent Mr A regular statements regarding the status of his plan. So, Fairstone felt Mr A had 
sufficient opportunity from 2017 onwards to ask for a review. And, as far as it was 
concerned, Mr A had declined a review in 2019, so it felt he may have done the same in 
2017 and 2018.
That said, it acknowledged its service had, at times, fallen short of the standard 
expected. Specifically, it acknowledged that:
There had been no active reviews of Mr As account since he opted for an active 
plan arrangement in 2016. This came to light when a new adviser took over the 
account in 2019.
As there had been no annual reviews since Mr A transferred his pension to the 
new plan, it said it would refund the annual fees charged for those years. And it 
agreed to refund the fee for 2019 too, seeing as a review hadnt taken place 
that year either (although it felt this was because Mr A had declined a review). 
In total, Fairstone offered a refund of £8,500, which it said could be paid by 
bank transfer or into Mr As pension.Mr A wasnt happy with Fairstones response, so he complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She noted that Fairstone advised Mr A to transfer his DB 
pension into a SIPP and investments which aligned with the agreed investment strategy. 
Yet, once an initial fee was paid to Fairstone, a significant amount remained in cash. The 
investigator also noted that:
There had been some communication between Mr A and Fairstone and a 
meeting around January 2018, which led to £250,000 being invested.
Mr A knew the remainder of his investment was in cash. But, despite his 
knowledge of financial markets, for the purposes of this transaction, he was a 
retail client and was entitled to expect Fairstone to give him advice  
particularly given the fees hed paid. So, she didnt necessarily agree it was Mr 
As responsibility to get in touch with Fairstone. She thought the adviser should 
have done more to agree a plan of action with him.
However, she thought Mr A might have done more to mitigate his own losses  
particularly when offered a financial review in 2019. So, she thought that any 
losses incurred after September 2019 due to non-investment of funds should 
be borne by Mr A. The investigator recommended that Fairstone make good 
any losses that occurred between December 2016 and September 2019.
In addition, she agreed with Fairstone that the ongoing fees should be refunded.
Mr A accepted the investigators assessment, but Fairstone didnt. It made a number of 
detailed points in response. Those included that given Mr As experience as an 
investment professional, it was incumbent on him to seek advice  including from an 
alternative source, if necessary, to mitigate any potential losses on his fund.
My provisional decision
I sent Mr A and Fairstone my provisional decision on 19 August 2022. Ive included the 
relevant extracts below:
 Both parties seem to be in broad agreement that Mr A didnt receive the service he 
was entitled to expect  and had paid for  from Fairstone. And in recognition of this, Im 
aware Fairstone offered to refund a total of £8,500 in respect of fees charged.
Mr A clearly wasnt happy with that offer. He told us that as a minimum all fees should be 
refunded, equivalent to about £31,000. Hes added that, when taking advice to transfer 
his DB pension into a SIPP, he was led to believe that a return of just 1.1% annually 
would give him the same benefits as his DB scheme. So, he thought that coupled with 
the flexibility of having a SIPP seemed like a very achievable growth target and a 
sensible decision. Mr A believes that if Fairstone had been more proactive in ensuring 
his pension was invested, with a conservative 1.1% growth, his pension would have 
been worth about £1,452,082 (instead of £1,379,119). Therefore, Mr A believes Fairstone 
should pay a minimum fair compensation of about £72,000 to make up what he thinks the 
difference in value is.
So, clearly, the matter that is still to be resolved is the extent to which Fairstone needs to 
put things right now. And thats what Ill be focusing on in this decision.
Ive given very careful thought to all of the points Fairstone and Mr A have made. And 
having done so, I have a different view to our investigator.
I completely agree that Mr A was entitled to expect more from Fairstone, especially given 
the fees he was paying. And, as Ive already indicated, to some degree, Fairstone accepts 
that too. But, for the reasons Ill explain, Im not persuaded Fairstone is solely responsible 
for all the losses that Mr A attributes to it. So, I don't think it would be fair and reasonable to make the compensation award that Mr A seeks. Ill explain why.
Should Fairstone refund all fees?
Mr A isnt complaining about the suitability of the advice Fairstone gave to transfer his 
DB pension to a SIPP. But he seems to be saying now that, as Fairstone didnt give 
him the service he was expecting thereafter, it should refund the initial advice fee it 
charged amounting to about £21,000.
Ive thought about this and Im not inclined to agree. I say that because, according to Mr 
As client agreement with Fairstone, it will deduct an adviser charge to include the cost of 
things such as its research and analysis; recommendations; and putting those 
recommendations into action. The charge is calculated as a percentage of the amount 
invested.
The evidence clearly shows that Fairstone carried out a fairly detailed advice process 
with Mr A. And, at the end of that process, as expected, Mr A came away with a report 
and recommendation about whether it was in his best interests to transfer his DB 
pension.
Fairstone clearly thought it was advisable for Mr A to transfer his DB pension into a SIPP 
and from what Ive seen, it helped Mr A to set up a profile with the SIPP provider, J. As 
its also expected to do, it made a number of recommendations about suitable funds for 
Mr A to invest in, taking account of his attitude to risk.
As Ive already indicated above, Mr A didnt complain about that initial advice. In fact, he 
appears to have been satisfied that Fairstone did exactly what hed agreed to pay it for. 
That is, it made a recommendation that was in line with his best interests. While, as 
discussed below, there were clearly problems concerning the investment of Mr As funds 
thereafter, I think Fairstone did carry out the work that would typically warrant an initial 
advice fee to be charged. So, I dont think it would be fair to say Fairstone should refund 
its initial advice fee simply because Mr A isnt happy with the way its handled things 
since.
Is Fairstone responsible for a potential loss of investment growth?
I fully appreciate Mr As point that Fairstone had a responsibility to proactively provide 
him with advice to help him achieve his financial goals. And to some extent, thats no 
longer in dispute.
But I dont agree that means Fairstone is solely responsible for the fact that Mr As 
investments remained in cash for such a long period. And whilst the quality of its service, 
by its own admission, at times left something to be desired, I think there is some 
evidence of Fairstone trying to do the right thing as far as Mr As SIPP was concerned.
First, part and parcel of the advice process was for Fairstone to advise on the 
recommended funds for Mr A to invest in once hed transferred the funds from his DB 
pension. I can see from its pensions (suitability) report that it recommended certain asset 
classes (types of investment) together with specific funds within those classes. Those 
recommendations were intended to match Mr As attitude to risk.
Its not entirely clear to me why Mr A didnt take those recommendations on board, 
bearing in mind they were made shortly after he and Fairstone had discussed his 
circumstances; objectives and attitude to risk in some detail. So, Id expect them to 
accurately reflect those things. And I need to keep in mind that, had investment choices 
been made around that time, Mr As funds could have been invested pretty much straight 
away. Whilst I cant say that would have guaranteed the investment growth Mr A was led 
to believe was achievable,it seems more plausible to think that was possible as opposed 
to funds simply being left in cash.Similarly, in January 2017, Fairstone sent Mr A other investment options to consider, albeit 
it looks like it had to be prompted by Mr A. But Mr A responded that he was finding it hard 
to like them. So, he asked for Fairstones help to find something more interesting. I think 
theres a world of difference between finding it hard to like them and the suggestions 
being wholly unsuitable. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that they were wholly 
unsuitable. That being the case, even if not ideal for Mr A, Im satisfied Fairstone gave him 
another opportunity, fairly early on, to make some investment decisions. But theres no 
evidence he took on board these suggestions either, despite Fairstone contacting him in 
April 2017 to ask to agree a time to discuss fund allocation. And I think it would also have 
been helpful if Fairstone had explained that it was probably better to agree some fund 
allocations, to get the funds invested in the short-term, even if they needed to be changed 
later on. Theres no suggestion it did so and matters werent helped by the fact that 
contact between Mr A and Fairstone apparently became somewhat sporadic after that.
Its also worth noting that Fairstone treated Mr A as a retail client even though he himself 
worked in the financial sector. Notwithstanding the fact that he was still entitled to receive 
a good level of service from Fairstone, especially given the fees hed paid, I think his 
experience probably meant that Mr A had a greater level of understanding of investments 
and the implications of his funds remaining in cash. I say that both in terms of his 
employment being in the financial sector and him apparently already having a fairly 
substantial amount invested in stocks and shares. That being the case, Im inclined to 
agree that Mr A also had a responsibility to mitigate any potential losses. For instance, it 
seems to me that Mr A could easily have accepted Fairstones investment 
recommendations until such time as they were in a position to discuss things further. He 
had recommendations as part of the advice hed accepted, which were likely suitable. 
Even if he later decided to switch to investments that interested him more.
Yet by September 2017, around ten months after options were first proposed, Mr A and 
Fairstone still hadnt been able to agree on fund choices for his investments. And Mr A 
himself recognised that he needed to get some proper investments going. Given the 
passage of time, I think it was really important that Mr A and Fairstone were able to work 
together to resolve the issue as soon as possible. And whilst I can see that Fairstone did 
respond fairly quickly and suggested meeting up to discuss things, Mr As availability was 
limited. So, he asked Fairstone to send him some options to consider upfront. I can 
appreciate why Mr A might have felt that was a better option. But I do think that needs to 
be considered in the context of the attempts Fairstone had already made to agree 
investment choices. And, in those circumstances, it doesn't seem unreasonable to me 
that Fairstone would want to meet Mr A first. I say that in particular because I imagine 
one of the things it would want to check is that any recommendations it made were still 
suited to Mr As risk appetite and objectives and, to save them going round in circles, to 
try to ensure any recommendations were the sort of investments Mr A was likely to find 
interesting.
In any event, it seems that Fairstone did send Mr A some options to consider and Mr A 
responded in November 2017 saying that he wanted Fairstone to recommend investments 
in different asset classes. So, whilst I appreciate that Mr A may have been looking for 
something different, I dont think that means Fairstone wasnt actively trying to recommend 
investments. But, following availability issues on both sides, it looks like it was around 
January/February 2018 before they eventually met up and some of Mr As funds were then 
invested with the rest remaining in cash. That was over a year after Mr As funds were first 
transferred from the DB scheme.
The examples Ive highlighted above, do show the reasonable efforts Fairstone made to 
help Mr A make investment choices. And whilst theres no doubt that at other times its 
contact was sporadic, causing Mr A to chase things up, I cant fairly say that Fairstone 
was solely responsible for Mr As funds remaining in cash. So, Im not intending to say that 
it needs to put right any potential investment losses that Mr A might have suffered.But, its clear that Fairstone hasnt carried out the regular reviews that Mr A was entitled to 
expect. And whilst I cant say what the outcome of those reviews would have been in 
terms of any investment choices Mr A may have made, Im satisfied that Mr As paid for a 
service he didnt receive. Fairstone has made an offer to pay Mr A £8,500 as a refund of 
fees. I think thats reasonable. So, thats the amount that Im intending to say Fairstone 
should pay now as a means of settling this complaint.
That amount should if possible be paid into Mr As pension plan. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Ive also thought about 
whether this amount being paid in, would have affected the investment returns on the 
SIPP. But I don't think it would, given that so much of the SIPP value was disinvested for 
a long period.
It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance. If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or 
allowance implications, it should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a 
notional deduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr A hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from his plan, 25% of the payment would be 
tax- free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 40%. So, making a notional deduction of 30% overall from 
the loss adequately reflects this.
My provisional decision
Im intending to partially uphold this complaint and direct Fairstone Wealth 
Management Limited to put things right as Ive set out above.
Responses to my provisional decision
Fairstone didnt respond.
Amongst his comments, Mr A said the following:
He was extremely disappointed and frankly flabbergasted at my proposed 
settlement.
He said I was putting a lot of emphasis on the fact that he was some kind of market 
professional (which he says is untrue) because of his previous work in the financial 
sector.
Despite what Fairstone noted in its fact-find report, Mr A disputes that he has a 
substantial amount invested in stocks and shares. He said hed never had monies 
invested in stocks and shares, apart from pension contributions, which werent 
managed by him.
Id ignored the fact that a Fairstone adviser had apparently contacted Mr A since 
leaving Fairstone and said that hed been unable to look after clients properly whilst 
working for the company. 
Mr A questioned how my decision was punishing Fairstone or compensating him for 
lost pension growth.
At the very least, Mr A thinks my award should be £15,444.94 in respect of ongoing 
fees (plus £230 for each further month) and not £8,500 (which Mr A also doesnt 
think is a fair or correct compensation figure).His circumstances have changed. He was made redundant in 2021 and is currently 
unemployed and not paying tax. This comment seems to relate to the notional tax 
deduction of 30% that I referrred to in my provisional decision when setting out my 
proposed redress. 
Mr A asked me to revise my proposed settlement and questioned how it could be for 
an amount less than the fees hes paid, given that hes still not receiving advice or 
contact from Fairstone. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not clear why Fairstone referred to Mr A having a substantial amount invested in stocks 
and shares, when according to Mr A, thats not the case. Especially as the information in a 
suitability report is generally a note of whats discussed at the time of the advice. But, I have 
no reason to doubt what Mr A says, so Ive reflected this amendment in the background 
section of my decision. 
However, after very careful consideration, neither this, or Mr As other comments would 
cause me to change the essence of what I said in my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Fairstones suitability report referred to Mr A working in the financial sector. Amongst the 
information noted are the FCA controlled functions (the permissions to perform certain tasks) 
that Mr A either held at the time, or had held previously. I can see that for a period of over 
three years, Mr A apparently worked as an investments adviser.
So, whilst I take Mr As point that doesnt necessarily make him a market professional, Im 
still of the view that Mr As experience and awareness of investments was probably more 
extensive than hes suggesting now. I say that in particular because in response to the 
investment suggestions made by Fairstone, Mr A indicated he was looking for something 
more interesting. I think that comment in itself tends to suggest that Mr A had a fair amount 
of knowledge of investments, otherwise it seems more likely hed be willing to simply accept 
the suggestions made by Fairstone. And, later on, he told Fairstone that he was looking to 
invest in asset classes other than equities. Again, I think that tends to add weight to the fact 
that Mr A knew enough about the different types of assets he might invest in, even if he was 
looking for Fairstones help in finding specific funds to invest in. 
And taking those things together, on balance, it seems more likely that as a former 
investment adviser (who still worked in the financial sector), Mr A ought to have known the 
relevance of his funds remaining in cash and the importance of him trying to mitigate his own 
losses. 
Mr A says Im ignoring the fact that Fairstones former adviser contacted him to explain the 
challenges he faced in being able to properly look after its clients. I dont agree its a 
question of me ignoring what apparently happened. Rather, its more the case that I dont 
think it adds any further weight to what Ive said and the conclusions Ive already reached. 
Especially when Fairstone itself has already accepted that it didnt always get things right as 
far as the service it gave Mr A was concerned. So, I see no reason to comment on this issue 
further. 
Mr A has also challenged my proposed award and thinks it should be increased to 
£15,444.94, plus ongoing fees of about £230 a month. But I dont agree. As I said in my provisional decision, there have been attempts to agree investments and some contact , 
albeit fairly sporadic at times, from Fairstone over the years. And that contact included the 
new adviser getting in touch with Mr A in 2019 shortly after taking over Mr As account, to 
offer him a financial review. Mr A clearly didnt agree to a review at that time and Fairstone 
has gone as far as suggesting he declined it. Whatever the reason a review didnt take 
place, I think Mr A would have known his investments remained in cash. So, I think that was 
another opportunity for him to work with Fairstone to agree some investments. 
And whilst Mr A made contact with Fairstone a couple of months later to make a complaint, 
Ive seen no evidence he pursued the offer of a financial review. And I dont think there was 
anything preventing him from also making some investment decisions even if he wanted to 
pursue a complaint about the service hed received previously. In these circumstances, 
especially given the contact from Fairstone in 2019, I cant fairly say that the fact there was 
no review was down to a shortcoming on Fairstones part. And for that reason, Im not going 
to direct Fairstone to refund any charges made after 2019. Also, even though Fairstone did 
invite Mr A to take part in a review in 2019, its offer to refund charges included those due for 
2019. Im still of the view thats a fair offer and a reasonable response in the circumstances. 
So, Ill be directing Fairstone to pay the £8,500 it previously offered.
In terms of the notional tax that I said should be deducted, (to allow for future tax that 
would otherwise be paid) Mr As made the point that he was made redundant and is 
not currently paying tax. I can see why Mr A might think that change in circumstance is 
relevant. However, the notional tax deduction is intended to reflect the likely rate of 
income tax payable in retirement, not what it is now. And given that Mr A doesnt 
appear to have other substantial savings to fund his retirement (meaning he might not 
otherwise need to draw an income from his pension) it seems likely hell need to rely 
on his pension pot, which is fairly sizeable overall. Given the size of his pension pot, 
and the state pension that he will receive, I think that its more likely than not that Mr 
As income in retirement will put him into the higher rate tax band of 40%. So, again, if 
a payment into the pension isnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump 
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for future income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid presumed to be 40%. Im satisfied that making a notional 
deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Putting things right
Fairstone Wealth Management Limited should put things right as I set out in my provisional 
decision and as referred to above.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Fairstone Wealth Management Limited to 
compensate Mr A in the manner Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman