DRN-4115298
The complaint
Miss R complains about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim for a damaged sofa.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Miss R has home insurance underwritten by AA which covers the contents of her home.
She made a claim after she says her sofa was damaged when she accidentally spilled hair 
dye onto it. Miss R said this caused the material to blister and when she tried to gently wipe 
the hair dye off, the material split or peeled in places.
AA declined the claim. They told Miss R the damage had likely been caused by her attempts 
to clean the sofa and they referred her to an exclusion in the policy terms which say they 
wont cover damage caused by any cleaning process.
Miss R made a complaint to AA. They maintained their decision to decline the claim was 
correct. They again referred to the policy exclusion. And also told Miss R the onus was on 
her to substantiate her claim, which they felt she had not done.
Miss R wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. She wants AA to repair or 
replace her damaged sofa. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think AA had treated Miss R fairly by declining the 
claim on the basis that her cleaning had caused the damage. He asked AA to repair or 
replace the damaged sofa in line with the policy terms.
AA disagreed and so this case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here about what the policy says. The terms include an exclusion which 
says that AA wont cover damage caused by cleaning.
I suspect AA included that policy term primarily to cover situations in which a policyholder 
damages an item by cleaning it with the wrong product, or too regularly, or too abrasively, for 
example. And so, causes the damage themselves.
In that kind of case, the primary or sole cause of the damage would be the actions of the 
policyholder when carrying out the cleaning.
It certainly wouldnt be an unreasonable or stretched reading of the policy terms to interpret 
the exclusion in that way. So, policyholders might reasonably feel they were covered in 
situations like the one Miss R describes  where they were cleaning an item in order to 
mitigate damage or prevent further damage arising from an accident or event which itself 
had nothing to do with cleaning.
I dont think AA are trying to suggest that there was no incident with the hair dye and Miss R 
caused the damage by proactively cleaning the sofa  and then lied about the circumstances 
when she made the claim. 
If they are, they didnt tell Miss R that was the reason for declining the claim. And in any 
case, Im satisfied the dont have the evidence to justify the allegation that the claim is 
fraudulent and/or that Miss R is intentionally trying to deceive them about the cause of the 
damage.
In their final response to Miss Rs complaint, AA quote the cleaning exclusion  as the 
reason to decline the claim. But also go on to say the onus is on Miss R to substantiate her 
loss and to show it was caused by an insured event. And they say she hasnt substantiated 
her claim.
Thats a somewhat confused position. Either Miss Rs claim has not been substantiated, in 
which case its irrelevant whether an exclusion applies, or its substantiated but excluded.
Leaving that aside, Im satisfied Miss R has met the requirement to substantiate her claim. 
Shes provided photographs of the damaged sofa  which show she has suffered a loss. And 
shes provided an explanation of how that damage was caused by an insured event  in this 
case an accident with the hair dye, which apparently contains bleach.
So, for me, the onus is then on AA to either prove that the damage was not caused by the 
event Miss R described or to demonstrate that an exclusion applies. 
As I say, I dont think the exclusion applies  at least not in the way AA appear to be 
suggesting. Its reasonable to assume the exclusion would apply only if the cleaning were 
the primary cause of the damage rather than a perfectly reasonable and justified attempt to 
mitigate damage caused by an accident.
And if AA wanted to suggest that the damage  as evidenced in the photographs  did not 
happen and/or could not have happened as Miss R suggests, then Id want to see expert 
evidence about how the material from which the sofa is made reacts to the chemicals 
contained in the hair dye. 
In short, if AA wanted to decline the claim because they didnt believe Miss R, they should 
have said so  and they should have the evidence or information to back up the serious 
allegation that the claim is fraudulent. And in fact, they didnt say so  and they havent 
produced any evidence or information to back up the idea that the damage wasnt caused by 
the event Miss R describes.
Putting things right
Im satisfied Miss R has substantiated her claim as far as shes required to do  and AA 
have no evidential justification for saying the damage wasnt caused by the spillage. And Im 
satisfied the cleaning exclusion cant reasonably be applied here. So, Im upholding Miss Rs 
complaint.
I agree with our investigator that AA should now settle the claim in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. Broadly, they should repair or replace the damaged sofa or pay for the repair or replacement of the sofa. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Rs complaint.
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited must repair or replace Miss Rs damaged sofa 
 or pay for the repairs or replacement - in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman