DRN-3956305
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc, misadvised him about alternative 
insurance policies when it contacted him to tell him that the payment protection insurance 
(PPI) on his credit card was being cancelled.
What happened
Capital One first contacted Mr L in September 2022 to inform him that the PPI on his credit 
card would be coming to an end in February 2023, as well as sending him later reminders. 
Mr L wanted continuing cover and says that he rang the companies that Capital One had 
told him about to try and get it. But none of these companies offered like for like cover and in 
the end he spent a lot of time calling and doing research that didnt get him anywhere.
Our adjudicator thought that Capital Ones actions had been fair and reasonable. Mr L 
disagrees with the adjudicators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One sent Mr L a letter on 22 September 2022 (by email) explaining that the policy 
was being cancelled in February 2023. It said:
if youd like to find out more about alternative insurance options you can go to 
www.moneyhelper.org.uk/insurance.
Moneyhelper is an organisation that provides free and impartial financial guidance.
Ive seen that Capital One then sent Mr L another letter on 24 November 2022, reminding 
him that the policy was being cancelled. This repeated the same sentence as stated above.
Ive thought about the wording of the sentence. Although it talks about alternative cover, it 
doesnt say anything about like for like cover. On balance, Im unable to conclude that 
Capital One misinformed Mr L that hed be able to get insurance that exactly replicated the 
credit card PPI policy.
Mr L says that Capital One gave him a list of 12 companies that could provide alternative 
policies. However, I havent seen any evidence that it did that and Mr L says he has lost the 
letter from Capital One that said that.
Mr L would like £500 compensation for the time he spent doing research and phoning these 
12 companies. However, as I havent seen any evidence that Capital One advised him to call 
those companies, it wouldnt be appropriate to award him compensation.
Mr L has also said that he should be able to re-coup the premiums he paid due to Capital 
One cancelling the policy. But, if necessary, Mr L would have been able to claim on the 
policy during the time that he was paying the premiums. So Im unable to recommend a 
refund of premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman