DRN-2282138
The complaint
Mrs S complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with her chargeback request.
What happened
Mrs S booked a holiday in April 2019 that cost £999. She says she tried to contact the
company on a number of occasions about an issue with the holiday but didn't receive a
response. Mrs S says she cancelled the holiday as a result and expected in line with the
holiday terms and conditions to receive a refund less her £200 deposit. She says she asked
Nationwide to raise a chargeback on 20 August 2019 and also sent it copies of the e-mail's
she sent to the holiday company. Mrs S says Nationwide kept telling her to go to ATOL and
then told her she was out of time for providing further information and to raise a chargeback.
Nationwide says Mrs S logged the chargeback on 20 August 2019 but had cancelled the
holiday on 5 May 2019, and so she had 120 days to raise a chargeback from that date. It
says it told Mrs S on 4 September 2019 that she needed to provide further evidence but
received it outside the time limits. Nationwide accepts it incorrectly told Mrs S to contact
ATOL and has apologised for that and paid £75 compensation.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us and our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator
explained the chargeback rules and thought Nationwide received the required information
after the 120-day limit had passed for raising a chargeback. The investigator thought Mrs S
was told on the call on 20 August that she needed to provide the evidence.
Mrs S doesn't accept that view and says she did send documents by recorded delivery on 20
August 2019 but Nationwide kept telling her to take the complaint up with ATOL.
I asked Nationwide for further information and in summary asked for the call recording of 20
August 2019 and for information about what it told Mrs S about the time limits. I also asked it
why a chargeback couldn't be raised with the information it was given.
Nationwide has replied and provided the call recording. It says no exact time was given to
Mrs S but it says it needed the invoice which Mrs S didn't provide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and said as follows
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I came to the provisional view that Nationwide didn't deal appropriately with 
Mrs S's chargeback.
I explained that the chargeback rules were set, not as in this case by Nationwide, but by the 
card providers. And there are strict rules on time limits. I said there was no real dispute that 
Mrs S had 120 days to raise a chargeback. I also made clear that a chargeback is not a right 
but a voluntary scheme with no guarantee of success. I explained that we take the view that 
normally we would expect a chargeback to be raised unless there was a good reason for not 
doing so.
I listened to the call between the parties on 20 August 2019. I thought it clear that Mrs S
wanted to raise a chargeback and explained the reasons why and the difficulties she was
having with the holiday company. I was satisfied that Mrs S was asked to provide further
information about the holiday and the subsequent problems and was given an address to
send that information to. I was also satisfied that Mrs S was told by Nationwide that she had 
28 days to provide that information and was correctly advised there was no guarantee of a
successful outcome. But I didnt think at any stage was Mrs S advised that there were time
limits to raise the chargeback by and that there can be no doubt Mrs S told Nationwide when 
she cancelled the holiday - on 5 May 2019.
In those circumstances I said I would have expected Nationwide to have realised there was 
a matter of days left before the chargeback needed to be made and to have told Mrs S that.
I was satisfied that Mrs S wasn't told about those time limits. In any event I could see that 
same day Mrs S sent Nationwide, by recorded delivery, copies of most of the documents in 
this case. I could see those documents included all the relevant evidence needed to raise 
the chargeback. And in those circumstances, I couldnt see why Nationwide couldn't have 
raised the chargeback with the information Mrs S sent to the correct address.
I thought it likely Nationwide concentrated on the ATOL issue and told Mrs S that she ought 
to raise her complaint with it. But didn't raise the chargeback Mrs S clearly asked it to do with
the detailed information she had provided.
Overall my provisional view was that Nationwide didn't deal fairly with the chargeback 
request and as a result Mrs S's chargeback wasn't made. I said it was impossible to be sure 
what the outcome of the chargeback would have been, but I thought the fairest approach 
would be for Nationwide to pay Mrs S compensation of £500.
I thought provisionally that figure took account of the holiday company's refund offer of £500 
and the level of inconvenience and distress Mrs S was caused. I said Mrs S could speak to 
that company and if necessary, provide further information about that issue or confirmation 
that it has been or will be paid. I made clear that based on the evidence I have seen the 
holiday company has agreed to refund half of the holiday cost. I said I would like Mrs S to 
confirm if she expected to have lost the deposit of £200 as the information, I have seen is 
not clear and said I would look at that again if necessary.
Both Nationwide and Mrs S have replied to my provisional decision and both have disagreed 
with it. Mrs S says she would have accepted that she would have lost the deposit in any 
event but now says as the holiday company ignored her that she should not have to lose that 
deposit. She says she didnt accept the refund of £500 offered by the holiday company as 
she thought that would preclude a claim for the rest of the holiday cost and questions if its 
still available due to current circumstances.
Nationwide says it didnt receive the information from Mrs S in time and had it done so it 
could have considered if longer time periods were relevant for raising the chargeback. It 
doesnt accept making a mistake except for the advice about ATOL.
My decisionI have reconsidered all of the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
decision that I reached in my provisional decision and for the same overall reasons.
Im satisfied that Mrs S would have lost the deposit for the holiday regardless of if 
Nationwide had raised a chargeback. I appreciate Mrs S say she shouldnt lose that deposit 
based on the behaviour of the holiday company but that is not something Nationwide is 
responsible for and it would be unfair for it to have to pay that deposit amount. I think Mrs S 
will need to take that up with the holiday company if she wishes. Im also satisfied that the 
holiday company agreed to refund part of the holiday and I have not seen any evidence that 
it has refused to do so. I also think that is something Mrs S will again need to take up with 
the holiday company and if a chargeback had been raised, I dont think Mrs S would have 
received the full holiday cost back in circumstances where the business had agreed to 
refund part of it.
I appreciate Nationwide says it didnt receive the invoice in time to raise the chargeback. But 
I have made clear that I think it ought to have told Mrs S about the chargeback time limits 
and in any event, I find it had sufficient information to raise a chargeback, but didnt as it 
incorrectly thought this was a dispute covered by ATOL.
Putting things right
Overall, I dont think it possible to be sure what the outcome of a chargeback would have 
been. And in those circumstances, I think the fairest approach would be for Nationwide to 
pay Mrs S £500 compensation for the reasons I have explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Mrs S £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman