DRN-1672645
The complaint
Mr D complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled his claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D had an accident in which his car hit a lamppost. There was no other driver involved. He 
made a claim under his policy for his cars damage and Aviva settled that. But Mr D said that 
he had injuries from the accident which meant that hed been unable to work and so had lost 
earnings. He wanted to claim £80,000 for those. He was unhappy that Aviva wouldnt pay 
him that amount or help him claim it.
 
Mr D had reversed into the lamppost. Aviva explained to him that because the incident was 
his fault, the policy didnt cover any claim for his injuries. And because there was no other 
person at fault in the incident, there was no one to claim against for those or for any loss of 
earnings he said he had. So Aviva wouldnt pay for him to make such a claim. 
  
Mr D complained to us. But the investigator thought that Aviva s decision was reasonable 
and in line with the policy. Mr D disagreed and his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained, we dont decide who was liable for causing an accident. That 
is a matter for the courts. We only consider whether a business has acted in line with their 
policy terms, and whether they reached their decision in a fair and reasonable way. 
Mr D accepted that hed hit the lamppost. But he felt that he wasnt at fault for this. He 
explained that he has mental health conditions for which he was on medication, and he felt 
that contributed to him having the accident. 
Aviva sympathised with this. But they explained that it didnt change that Mr D was 
responsible for the accident. As there was no other person involved and no one else at fault, 
there was no one to claim against. 
Ive looked at his policy and I see that it doesnt cover the losses he is claiming. This is 
because Mr D was at fault for the accident. Its clear in the policy and its not unusual for car 
insurance policies to say this. Sometimes a person can instruct a solicitor to claim for injuries 
and loss of earnings back from the person responsible for the accident. But again that could 
only apply if another person was at fault for Mr Ds accident.
As that wasnt what happened here, Aviva arent required to help him claim through other 
motor legal protection he has.
I do see that Mr D is frustrated and upset at Aviva. Mr D has mental health conditions and 
says that he is in financial difficulty, and I can see that the situation has been difficult for him. 
And I know that this decision is not what he has been hoping for. But I can only look at 
whether Aviva have done anything wrong in dealing with his claim, and I dont think that they 
have here. 
I think that theyve been sympathetic to his situation. It was fair for them to decide that Mr D 
was at fault for the accident. And I think that they also acted reasonably in explaining this to 
Mr D in writing and over the phone too, on several occasions.  And so because they have 
acted reasonably and fairly, and in line with their policy conditions, I dont ask Aviva to do 
anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
