DRN-1106469
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
August 1996. Mrs P says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI.
Background
The PPI was taken out during a telephone call after Mrs P applied for her credit card. The 
policy provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also would have paid a 
benefit in the event of death.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs P says she wasnt given the option of having the credit card without the PPI. Barclays, 
on the other hand, says Mrs P would have been given a choice about the PPI at the time of 
sale. 
Unfortunately, Barclays hasnt been able to provide a recording of the telephone call in which 
the sale took place  which isnt surprising given the sale took place many years ago. So I 
dont know what was said in the discussion between Mrs P and the Barclays representative. 
But the PPI was sold to Mrs P after she applied for her credit card, so I think it more likely 
than not that she would have understood  she could have had the credit card without the 
PPI.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mrs P, and the policy seems to have been right for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She was eligible for cover and 
I cant see that she would have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover  
such as pre-existing medical conditions. 
 
 
 
Mrs P has told us she didnt need PPI as she would have received generous sick pay from 
her employer if she was too unwell to work. She says she would have been entitled to six 
months full pay followed by six months half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to work. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs P would have received 
from her employer and would have potentially paid out for longer than Mrs P would have 
received full pay  up to 12 months. So, I dont think the sick pay Mrs P says she had, would 
have meant that Barclays was wrong to recommend the PPI to her.
I also havent seen anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs P when 
she took out the policy  or that she had a particular need to keep costs down. 
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mrs P, Barclays also had to give her 
clear enough information about the PPI. I think its possible Barclays didnt give Mrs P all the 
information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear as it should have 
been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Mrs P from buying it.
So overall, I think Mrs P could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and 
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
My final decision
Based on what Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman