DRN-2873748
The complaint
 Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) lent to 
her irresponsibly. 
What happened
 Miss H applied for a Barclaycard and it was approved in January 2019 with a limit of £8400.
Miss H complained that she shouldnt have been given the card with such a high limit. She 
couldnt afford to take on more borrowing as she already had loans of £24000 from Barclays. 
She said that not enough checks couldve been done by Barclaycard. She was now 
struggling with her commitments and has had to borrow money from her parents to make the 
monthly payments.
Barclaycard said Miss H had passed their credit checks which showed she could afford the 
borrowing. Her credit file showed nothing which suggested she was struggling, and she 
passed Barclaycards affordability checks. They declined to refund any interest or fees.
Miss H brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said she thought Barclaycard hadnt 
carried out proportionate checks. Miss Hs current account was with Barclays  so they 
couldve seen from that that she was struggling  she was overdrawn and was using her 
overdraft limit to its fullest. Had Barclaycard carried out more checks, they wouldve seen 
that Miss Hs commitments were significant when compared to her income. She said 
Barclaycard should refund interest and fees debited to account, add 8% per annum simple 
interest to them, and remove all adverse entries from Miss Hs credit file.
 Barclaycard didnt agree. They said that the fact that Miss H had an overdraft didnt mean 
they shouldnt have lent more money to her on the Barclaycard. They asked that Miss Hs 
complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I can see that Miss H was given a limit of £8400 in January 2019. Within two months, the 
borrowing on the card was almost at its limit. There were two large debits to the card 
account  one a balance transfer of £3300, and what appears to be payment for a holiday of 
£3495. The balance on the card stayed at or near the limit until the date of Miss Hs 
complaint to us  the balance was £8303 debit in February 2021.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether 
Barclaycard acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the 
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to 
make repayments. We look at:
 Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
 If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
 And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid. 
othe greater the number of loans/credit 
othe longer the term of the loans/credit
In Miss Hs case, Barclaycards checks showed she had an income of £2668 (net) a month, 
with loan payments of £605 a month plus a mortgage payment of £463 per month. So  after 
allowing for living expenses, she had spare disposable income of over £1000 per month. So 
 they agreed the limit of £8400. 
But  this was a substantial new limit of £8400. And  as far as I can see, it was Miss Hs 
first Barclaycard. So  I think it was reasonable to expect Barclaycard to make some further 
inquiries of Miss H before agreeing to it  particularly as Miss H had her current account with 
Barclays, so they could easily see her situation. Also, there were some inconsistencies in 
Barclaycards data (provided by credit reference agencies)  as it said she was living with 
parents and paying rent of £233 per month, yet also had a mortgage with a payment of £463 
 again, this shouldve meant Barclaycard asked more questions.
If they had, they wouldve seen that Miss H had loan commitments of around £900 a month 
(including two Barclays loans of £556 a month), plus a mortgage of £488. There were also 
payments to two other credit cards of around £243 per month and another credit agreement 
of £168 a month  so a total of £1800 per month. Added to this - the minimum payments to 
her Barclaycard was around £170 per month. And  her monthly salary showing in her bank 
statements was £2400 to £2500  less than Barclaycards data suggested. The statements 
also show that she was getting help from her relatives to help her.
So  had Barclaycard carried out fuller and more proportionate checks  as I think they 
should have for such a high limit  they wouldve seen that Miss Hs spare income - after her 
financial payments - was only £400-£500 a month  to pay all bills, (including utilities), food, 
clothes, transport etc. And if they had, I dont think they wouldve agreed to the limit. 
Putting things right
 Miss H has had the use of the money  so its not fair to ask Barclaycard to write off any of 
the lending. But they should refund all interest and fees on the card from when it was issued 
to the date of this decision. I see there were some late payments, and these may have been 
advised to credit reference agencies  so Barclaycard should remove any adverse 
information from Miss Hs credit file. Our investigator recommended that Barclaycard should 
also pay 8% per annum simple on the payments made  I think this isnt necessary under 
these circumstances as I also think that Miss H should bear some responsibility for the debt. 
Going forward, Miss H should speak to Barclaycard to come to a mutually satisfactory 
arrangement as to how she can repay the resulting balance
(continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must:refund all interest and fees on Miss Hs card from when it was issued to the date of 
this decision
remove any adverse information from Miss Hs credit file relating to the card 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman