DRN-3945168
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited has cancelled a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy that covered her for unemployment.
What happened
Miss M was written to on 1 April 2022, informing her that the policy would be cancelled on 3 
August 2022.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint because Aviva had made a business decision to 
withdraw this policy and had provided Miss M with sufficient notice of the cancellation, in line 
with the policy terms. She also concluded that Aviva was not required to refund the 
premiums.
Miss M disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva is entitled to take a view on whether it wishes to continue to offer certain products and 
this service would not normally involve itself in the commercial decisions of an insurer in 
deciding to offer or withdraw particular products. I'm only looking at whether Aviva acted 
fairly in the way that it cancelled the policy.
Miss M says news of the cancellation came without warning. But she was given four months 
notice that the PPI would be ending, which was more than the 90 days required under the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
I appreciate that Miss M would like the PPI to be reinstated. But as Ive said, Aviva is within 
its rights to withdraw the policy. And as it has made a decision to withdraw all such policies, 
not just Miss Ms, Im unable to conclude that it has treated her unfairly. I note that, in the 
cancellation notification and reminders letters, Miss M was signposted to a website where 
she might be able to get impartial information about alternative cover. And she was given 
enough notice to set up alternative unemployment cover before the PPI policy came to an 
end.
As Miss M has had the policy since March 2009, she says she feels cheated out of the 
money shes spent on the PPI during that time. She says that cost was to secure herself and 
her family financially if and when necessary. But she was covered by the policy during all of 
the time that she was paying the premiums, so she would have been able to claim on it then 
if necessary. As such, it wouldnt be appropriate for Aviva to refund the premiums. 
I understand that Miss M is upset that the policy has been cancelled. However, looking at 
Avivas actions, I consider that it acted fairly, in line with the policy terms and conditions, to 
cancel the PPI with the appropriate amount of notice. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman