DRN-2432251
The complaint
Mr M complains that Accord Mortgages Limited trading as Accord Mortgages has calculated 
the repayments on his offset mortgage incorrectly. He also thinks it gave him misleading 
information about how the account would operate.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in November 2020, explaining that I didnt intend to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining why I 
thought this.
In November 2019 Mr M took out an offset mortgage with Accord. The mortgage was sold 
via a broker. Mr M borrowed approximately £575,000. Roughly £230,000 of this was on a 
capital and interest repayment basis. The remainder of the balance was borrowed on an 
interest only basis.
On 9 December 2019 Mr M deposited approximately £327,000 into the savings account 
linked to his offset mortgage.
The repayment claimed by Accord in January 2020 did not alter, despite the amount now on 
deposit. Mr M contacted Accord to question why. It said that repayments would not 
automatically update to reflect deposits into the savings account. It said this would happen 
as part of the annual review of the account and if Mr M wanted it to happen before this, hed 
have to contact Accord to request this.
Mr M complained to Accord as he felt this wasnt in line with how the account was 
advertised.
Accord recalculated the monthly repayments taking account of the money in the off-set 
savings account. It told Mr M in writing what his new repayments would be. Mr M complained 
that he felt this figure was incorrect. He said hed estimated the repayments he would have 
to make, once the savings were deposited, to be significantly lower.
Accord said it didnt think it had provided incorrect information about when repayments 
would be recalculated. It said that the money in the savings account had meant that the 
repayment portion of the mortgage was fully off-set and the interest only part of the 
borrowing partially off-set. And it didnt think it had calculated Mr Ms monthly repayments 
incorrectly. It did though acknowledge that there had been a misunderstanding when 
communicating with Mr M about his complaint which had meant he hadnt received a call 
back when hed expected one. To address this, it offered him £50 for the upset caused.
Unhappy with this response Mr M brought his complaint to our service. He reiterated that he 
felt Accord had provided misleading information about how the mortgage would operate 
when money was deposited into the savings account. And he said that Accord had acted 
differently following a withdrawal from the savings account  which he felt was unfair. Mr M 
said he also still felt the repayments were not being calculated fairly based on the amount 
hed put on deposit  as he felt the interest only balance shouldve been fully off-set. 
To put things right he said he wanted Accord to change how it had allocated his off-set 
savings, so he received the benefit he was expecting or to pay him the difference if it was 
unwilling to change the mortgage itself. If neither could be achieved, he wanted Accord to 
allow him to exit the mortgage without having to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) and 
compensation for the time hed spent making the complaint. Mr M also said he wanted our 
service to require Accord to make changes to how it advertises and runs these accounts and 
how it trains its staff.
We are not a regulator. It isnt our role to tell a business that it must change its processes or 
its literature. Rather our role is to look at the individual circumstances of a complaint and 
decide what is fair and reasonable. I can see Mr M has mentioned hed like us to require 
Accord to make changes to how it advertises and operates these accounts, but that isnt 
something I can require it to do.
Monthly repayments not updating immediately
Mr M has said that he thinks that his mortgage repayments should update automatically 
when he makes a deposit into the linked savings account  effectively that the account 
should work on a live basis.
Accord has provided a copy of the terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ms off-set 
mortgage. There are subsections relating to the loan and the savings accounts. In the 
section relating to the loan, term 1.4 says;
In certain circumstances we may vary the monthly payment amount. We may do this, for 
example, if:

(k) the Savings balance in your Savings Account to offset against your Loan balance 
changes.
For any change that we make to your monthly payment, we will tell you about this in 
advance and when the first amended payment is due. If your loan is subject to the annual 
account review we may not change your monthly payment to take account of changes in the 
previous 12 months until the annual account review takes place. In that case we will tell you 
about any changes in your monthly payment because of changes to your account at the time 
of your annual account review. Your Offer tells you whether your Loan is subject to the 
annual account review ...
Ive reviewed a copy of Mr Ms mortgage offer. And I can see that in section six of this 
document  regarding projected monthly repayments  it is confirmed that the account will 
be reviewed annually.
I think this information is clear that, in the case of Mr Ms account, repayments will not 
automatically be changed every time the savings balance changes  because it is subject to 
an annual review. And because of this, I dont think Accord made an error by not 
immediately amending his repayments after he made a significant deposit into the linked 
savings account in December 2019 as it seems to have acted in line with the terms of the 
account.
Mr M has pointed to the other literature Accord has provided around the account and the 
method of offsetting he chose as this says his monthly repayments will be lower now. He 
thinks this means that the account should work on a live basis and update automatically  
as similar accounts he has held previously with other businesses have.I dont think that how other businesses operate similar accounts means that Accord has 
acted incorrectly. Business are entitled to set their own processes. As Accord has here.
I can understand why Mr M mayve interpreted the use of the word now to indicate that the 
account would be updated immediately. But I also think its reasonable, in the context of a 
mortgage, which is taken out over a long term  Mr Ms mortgage term was 18 years for 
example  that this could also refer to a saving in the short term when compared to the 
mortgage term as a whole, not necessarily immediately. 
Im also conscious that Accord did not give advice in relation to this mortgage. And I havent 
seen anything to indicate that this was queried with Accord or that it told Mr M the account 
would operate on a live basis. So, while I can understand why there was a 
misunderstanding around this, based on everything Ive seen and in particular what the 
terms of the account explain, I dont think I can reasonably say that Accord has provided 
intentionally mis-leading information in relation to how the account will operate. 
While the account is subject to an annual review, Accord has said that Mr M can contact it 
and request a recalculation of repayments sooner. I think this is reasonable.
Mr M has said when he later made a withdrawal from the linked savings his monthly 
repayment amount was immediately updated. And Ive seen evidence to support this. Mr M 
has said that he thinks this is unfair. I can see why he found this frustrating. But going back 
to the terms and conditions of the loan, they say Accord may not change the monthly 
repayment until the annual review. But they dont say it will not. I think the terms allow 
Accord the discretion to change the repayments immediately in certain circumstances. So 
again, I dont think this means the account was operated incorrectly. 
I also dont think this action was unfair on the part of Accord. Transactions on the savings 
account had resulted in the balance reducing by almost £80,000 between the recalculation 
Accord carried out and the previous review. So, the amount of interest to be off-set was 
considerably lower. Meaning that, if the repayments had not been amended, Mr Ms 
mortgage was potentially being underfunded, which couldve led to it falling into arrears. So, 
in the circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable of Accord to take action to avoid this.
So overall, I dont think Accord has acted incorrectly regarding the frequency at which it has 
recalculated the repayments due on Mr Ms mortgage account.
How the monthly repayment amounts have been calculated
Mr M has said that he thinks the loan repayments calculated by Accord after he deposited 
money into the linked savings account are incorrect. He says he estimated that this would be 
lower and has budgeted accordingly.
The loan terms and conditions have a section relating to interest. Term 2.4 explains;
If you have different parts to your Loan, in calculating the interest to be charged on your 
Loan, we will offset any Savings against the different parts in the following order:
(a) If your Loan has different Interest Rates, the highest Interest rate through to the 
lowest;
(b) If your loan has different Interest Rate types, variable Interest Rates before fixed 
Interest Rates;
(c) If parts of your Loan were completed at different times, the more recent through to the oldest;
(d) If parts of your Loan have different methods of repayment, the repayment (capital 
and interest) method before the interest only method; and
(e) In part number order, the highest number to the lowest.
Mr Ms mortgage was comprised of two parts. They were taken out (completed) on the same 
day and had the same fixed rate of interest. One part is repayment and one part is interest 
only. And Accord has used funds in the savings account to offset the repayment portion of 
the mortgage first. Based on what Ive seen I think Accord has acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account when doing this, so I dont think it has made an error. I also 
havent seen anything to indicate it told Mr M it would act differently.
Mr M has still questioned whether the calculations by Accord are correct as he feels they are 
not. Although Mr M has set out what he thinks the repayments should be, based on his own 
calculations, I havent seen anything to show that Accord told him at any stage that the figure 
he calculated was correct or represented what the required monthly repayment would be.
Mortgages are generally repaid by regular instalments, most often monthly. Repayment 
mortgages are commonly based on an amortisation schedule. What that means is that each 
instalment is made up of some of the amount originally borrowed (capital) and some of the 
interest and charges. 
The repayments may be for a fixed amount. But in the earlier stages of the mortgage term, 
more of each monthly payment goes on paying the interest  because its calculated based 
on the outstanding balance. And thats going to be higher at the start. As the mortgage term 
progresses and the remaining balance reduces, more of the payment goes on paying off the 
capital.
Had Mr Ms mortgage not been offset, the repayment portion of his mortgage wouldve 
followed this pattern. 
Here Mr Ms balance was offset in full so there was no interest element to account for. 
However rather than follow an amortisation schedule  where the amount of capital paid in 
each repayment would steadily increase, resulting in repayments not being fixed but varying 
each month, Accord has divided the capital balance remaining over the whole term and 
requested equal repayments.
It is this approach that seems to have led to the disagreement over whether the repayments 
have been calculated correctly.Our investigator felt it wasnt correct that the repayment portion of Mr Ms mortgage was no 
longer following the amortisation schedule. But I dont agree that means Accord has made 
an error. I wouldnt necessarily expect an offset mortgage to follow the same amortisation 
schedule as a repayment mortgage. And I havent seen anything in the information provided 
by Accord when the mortgage was taken out that suggested it would follow this schedule, in 
the event the repayment part of the mortgage was fully offset. In fact, the information 
advertised by Accord in relation to offsetting, provided by Mr M when he complained, 
explains that for the off-set method Mr M chose it adjusts the payment upwards because of 
the reducing effect of the offset savings balance, as the capital balance reduces. What it 
doesnt say, but what I would expect, is that if the savings balance remained the same, as 
the capital balance on the repayment part of the mortgage decreased, the offset benefit in 
relation to the interest only part of the mortgage would increase. And this would be reflected 
in the next annual review Accord carried out. So overall, I dont think what Accord has done 
is unfair.
The information Accord gives to customers about how payments are calculated doesnt 
include an example that covers the situation Mr Ms mortgage is in  part repayment, part 
interest only, with the repayment portion fully offset and the interest only partially. But I dont 
think Accord was required to explain every scenario and what it would mean for how 
repayments were calculated in advance. And again, I havent seen anything to suggest it told 
Mr M that the repayments would be calculated differently to the way they have been, or that 
it has treated him unfairly in doing this the way it has.
Accord has explained that all of its offset mortgages would be treated in the same way if the 
repayment balance was offset in full. So, I dont think Mr M has been treated differently than 
other customers.
Taking everything into account therefore, I dont think I agree that Accord has calculated the 
repayments due on Mr Ms mortgage incorrectly. And I dont think it has indicated that they 
would be calculated differently. So, I dont think Accord has made an error regarding the 
repayments it has requested. As a result, I dont think I can reasonably ask it to accept 
repayments at the level Mr M believes they should be. 
And as I dont think it has provided misleading information about the mortgage or calculated 
repayments incorrectly, I dont think it is reasonable to ask Accord to allow Mr M to exit the 
mortgage without paying an ERC or ask it to refund the charges for setting up the mortgage. 
The mortgage was set up as requested and the charges for that applied in line with the 
agreement between the parties. When Mr M agreed to the mortgage, he agreed that an ERC 
would be payable if he repaid the mortgage early. Although the mortgage may not have 
worked the way he thinks it should, I dont think this was down to an error by Accord.
Accord acknowledged there had been a misunderstanding around when Mr M would receive 
a call back while it handled his complaint. It offered £50 for the upset caused by this and in 
the circumstances, I think that is fair. With that in mind, and as I dont think Accord has 
administered Mr Ms account incorrectly, I dont think it needs to do more.
responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Accord said it had nothing further to add.Mr M did not agree with my findings. In summary he still thinks the information provided by 
Accord about how the off-set mortgage will operate is misleading and indicates it should 
work on a live basis. As it does not, he feels he should be allowed to exit from the mortgage 
without penalty. Mr M also said he was concerned that I would not be requiring Accord to 
change this and had not addressed the general lack of understanding its staff had of how the 
account worked. He asked that I not make a further finding until call recordings of the 
discussions hed had with Accord staff are provided  as he feels that this shows a general 
lack of understanding of how the account functions.
Mr M also says that he still thinks the repayments are not being calculated correctly on the 
off-set mortgage. He said he chose the net payment option which should mean monthly 
payments would be fully reduced and the account balance and mortgage term would be 
unaffected. But he believes that the balance and term are being reduced, so the account is 
not operating correctly. And again, as a result of this he feels he should be able to exit the 
mortgage penalty free as well as being refunded the costs associated with setting up this 
mortgage.
Mr M asked that I reconsider the complaint from a customers perspective, rather than 
looking at it from Accords point of view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role, and that of our service, is not to act for either party in a dispute. It is to impartially 
look at the dispute and decide whether we think there has been an error. Mr M has asked 
that I reconsider this complaint from a customers perspective. But Ive already done that. 
Ive considered what both he and Accord have said, the information theyve both provided 
and their perspectives when reaching my provisional findings. And Ive done so again when 
making my decision here on what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Mr M has also asked that I dont complete my review of the complaint before call recordings, 
of conversations he has had with Accords staff since taking the mortgage out, are provided. 
He says these demonstrate that Accords staff dont understand the off-set mortgage product 
and that further training is required. When considering a complaint, it is for our service to 
decide what information we think is relevant and required in order to complete our 
investigation. In reaching my provisional findings I felt I had enough information to fairly 
decide the complaint. And I remain of that opinion. So, I dont intend to wait for the further 
information Mr M has mentioned  as I dont think it will affect my opinion of this complaint.
Mr M has said he is concerned that I will not be requiring Accord to change its sales 
literature, because he thinks it is misleading, or to require Accord to better train its staff, as 
this may impact other customers. As I explained in my provisional findings, our service is not 
a regulator. I can not require Accord to change its processes or how it operates its business 
 including how it trains its staff or advertises its products. My role is to consider the 
individual circumstances of a complaint and decide whether I think an error has been made 
or not, on a fair and reasonable basis. That is what Ive done here.
Essentially Mr M is unhappy that his offset mortgage functions differently to how he thought 
it would. He believes Accord has provided misleading information about how the account 
would operate. There are two main aspects of how the account operates that are in dispute 
that Ill address individually. I would just note again that Accord did not provide any advice to 
Mr M when he took out this mortgage.Monthly repayments not updating immediately
Mr M believes that his monthly mortgage repayments should update as soon as a deposit is 
made into the savings account linked to his off-set mortgage. He has mentioned some of the 
promotional literature provided by Accord talking about the savings lowering monthly 
mortgage repayments now and benefitting from lower repayments immediately. But he 
says that the account does not function that way so the literature is misleading.
Ive taken on board Mr Ms comments about some of the advertising literature. And I can 
understand why from these documents alone and looking at these specific words, he mayve 
thought that the account would operate on a live basis. But as I explained in my provisional 
findings, the terms and conditions of the mortgage explain that if the account is subject to an 
annual review, payments will not necessarily update immediately. And Mr Ms mortgage offer 
confirms that his account is subject to an annual review. So, looking at all of the information 
provided in relation to the account, including the agreement and terms specific to it, I think 
this is clear that monthly repayments on Mr Ms account will not always automatically change 
if the savings balance changes  because it is subject to an annual review. So, I think 
Accord has administered this aspect of the account correctly. And I think the information 
provided as a whole is clear.
And Accord has explained that Mr M can request that the payments be updated to reflect 
changes in the offset savings before the annual review. He just has to contact Accord to do 
so. While I know Mr M does not agree - I think this is fair.
How the monthly repayment amounts have been calculated
Mr M does not think the repayments on his mortgage are being calculated correctly. He says 
that the information Accord provided about the option he chose for off-setting his savings 
explained that his mortgage balance and remaining term will not reduce any quicker. But he 
feels the account is not operating in this way or as advertised and he feels he is not 
receiving the full benefit of the amount in the savings and that the monthly repayments 
should be lower.
As I explained in my provisional findings Im satisfied that Accord was correct to off-set the 
savings against the portion of Mr Ms mortgage that is on a capital and interest repayment 
basis first, with any remaining savings then being off-set against the interest only portion of 
the mortgage, as this was in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Im also 
satisfied that Accord has not said at any stage that Mr Ms calculations of what he believes 
the mortgage repayments should be are correct.
The dispute about this stems from the portion of the monthly repayment towards the capital 
and interest part of the mortgage not following an amortisation schedule in the same way as 
a standard capital and interest mortgage. But as I explained, I wouldnt necessarily expect a 
fully offset mortgage to follow an amortisation schedule in the same way as a standard 
mortgage might. And I dont think Accord has ever indicated that it would.
Mr M has highlighted a section of the information provided by Accord about the method of 
offsetting he chose. The part he has highlighted says the mortgage balance and remaining 
mortgage term will not reduce any quicker than if you were on a traditional non-offset 
mortgage. Hes indicated that he doesnt think his mortgage functions this way  as it isnt 
following the same schedule as a standard repayment mortgage. So, he thinks the 
information is misleading and the account is not being administered incorrectly. But the extract he has highlighted is one sentence taken from a larger document. The rest of 
the information explains that for repayment mortgages, monthly repayments are adjusted 
upwards to account for the diminishing effect of offsetting later. It also explains that this 
allows for a consistent payment throughout the mortgage term  indicating that the schedule 
will be slightly different to a standard repayment mortgage. And I havent seen anything that 
leads me to think the term of the mortgage has been reduced or that the balance will be 
repaid sooner by Accord calculating the repayments in this way.
As I mentioned previously, the account also has an annual review. And at review, if the 
savings balance remained the same, with the capital repayment balance having reduced  
which it would always have done - I understand the amount of offsetting on the interest only 
portion of the mortgage would increase. So, I also dont agree that the way the account is 
being administered means Mr M isnt receiving the full benefit of the amount of offset 
savings. 
So, taking everything into account, while I know Mr M feels strongly about this, I dont think 
Accord is calculating the repayments on his mortgage incorrectly or differently to how it said 
it would.
And as a result, as I remain of the opinion that Accord has not done anything wrong in its 
handling of his account, I dont think I can reasonably ask it to waive the early repayment 
charge to allow Mr M to exit the mortgage early free of charge.
There was an error by Accord when handling Mr Ms complaint which meant he didnt 
receive a call back. But as I said in my provisional findings, I think the £50 it offered for the 
upset caused by this is fair and reasonable. So, I dont think it needs to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I think the £50 offered previously by Accord Mortgages Limited trading as Accord Mortgages 
is fair and reasonable so, if it hasnt already done so, I think it should pay this amount to 
Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman