DRN-3124821
The complaint
Ms P complains about Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) for its decision to issue 
her with a credit card with a high credit limit. She feels that this lending was irresponsible 
and caused her to get into more debt. She wants all charges and interest to be refunded and 
for any adverse information on her credit file to be removed. 
What happened
In February 2015, Ms P applied for a Nationwide credit card. She gave details of wanting to 
carry out two balance transfers onto her card.
Nationwide approved her application and issued a card to her. The card had a credit limit of 
£4500 and two balances were transferred onto the card, for £2600 and £1500. 
Balance transfer fees of £62.40 and £36 were applied, leaving Ms P with around £300 
remaining of her credit limit for spending. 
Ms P used the card for spending and immediately made a late payment to the card. Ms P 
then continued to use the card for spending up to her limit and made repayments. These 
repayments were sometimes late, and interest and fees were applied to the card. Nationwide 
did not withdraw the balance transfer interest rate and it remained at 0%. 
In November 2016, Ms P contacted a debt organisation, S, who contacted Nationwide on her 
behalf. They advised she was experiencing financial difficulties and discussed her income 
and expenditure with Nationwide. At that time her income was around £22,000 per year, and 
she had around £19,500 unsecured debt. 
Nationwide agreed a repayment plan with S, and she has subsequently been making 
payments towards that plan.  
Ms P complained to Nationwide in early 2020. She felt that Nationwide had been 
irresponsible in lending to her as she had other debts at the time. 
Nationwide sent its final response to her complaint in later February 2020. It did not uphold 
her complaint and set out that at the time of her application for an account and credit card (in 
early 2015) there was no adverse information held on her credit file. 
Ms P was not happy so contacted us. 
 
Our investigator did not uphold her complaint. He considered that Nationwide had carried out 
appropriate checks when setting Ms Ps credit limit and, because of the balance transfer 
rate, the lending would have improved her financial situation. 
Ms P did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms P feels that Nationwides decision to lend to her contributed to her 
overall debt, and so she thinks it was irresponsible lending. She has explained that, when 
she transferred her balances to Nationwide, she retained the credit cards she had just 
cleared for emergencies, but then as expenses occurred, she began using those cards too 
and so ended up with more debt. She therefore feels that her debt situation was made worse 
by an increase of £4500 additional capacity. 
I must be clear that I am looking at whether Nationwide was reasonable to lend to her at the 
time of her application in early 2015, and am considering the circumstances which existed at 
that time, rather than looking at how things changed after that application. 
I have reviewed the information available from the time of her application and Ms P declared 
an income of around £29,000 per year and had been employed for three years. Nationwide 
carried out checks to determine whether Ms P would be likely to repay the lending and was 
satisfied that she was. 
Copies of the credit information is no longer available, but Nationwide has provided its 
lending policy from that time which shows that her income versus debt would have been 
considered at the time of the application. Nationwide has also confirmed that her credit file 
shared data did not have negative information at that time. 
Nationwide was clearly aware that Ms P had some other debt, as she had declared that she 
wanted to transfer balances onto the Nationwide card. This was weighed against her credit 
score and income and Nationwide was satisfied that the credit limit was affordable. I have 
not seen evidence that this was an unreasonable conclusion. The limit set allowed her to 
transfer both balances completely and retain a small amount for further spending. If she had 
then settled and closed her other cards the decision to lend would have only increased Ms 
Ps debt capacity by around £300.
Ms P was transferring her other debt from interest bearing cards onto a 0% offer, so I agree 
that, if Ms P had closed her other cards after transferring the balances, the card would have 
improved her financial position. 
Ms P has said that she thinks that Nationwide did not consider the possibility that she would 
continue to spend on her old cards and so would increase her overall debt. I do not think this 
is a reasonable expectation of the business. She had applied for the card to improve her 
position, and the evidence supported it being affordable. In those circumstances I do not 
think Nationwide ought to have anticipated Ms Ps decision not to close the other cards, or to 
continue spending on them. 
I therefore agree with the investigator that the decision to lend to Ms P and to set her credit 
limit at £4500 was not unreasonable, and I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint. 
I realise that this will be disappointing to Ms P, but I hope it explains my reasons for reaching 
this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Ps complaint and do not ask Nationwide 
Building Society to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman