DRN-3806724
The complaint
Mr B complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited irresponsibly granted him a hire 
purchase agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In October 2017, Mr B acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Startline Motor Finance Limited (Startline). Mr B was required to make 51 monthly 
repayments of £299.09, with a final optional payment of £309.09 if he wanted to own the car 
at the end of the agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was £15,562.68.
Mr B says that Startline didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Startline didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included checking Mr Bs anticipated salary 
following a recent successful job application and reviewing his credit profile. Startline said 
that the review showed that Mr B had no defaults and that any arrears dated back to settled 
accounts. They further said that the review showed Mr B had two credit card accounts which 
were well within their credit limits and an overdraft that had never exceeded its limit. And 
Startline said that the monthly payments due from the hire purchase agreement comprised a 
relatively low percentage of Mr Bs anticipated monthly income.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Startline didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr B didnt agree and said that it was clear he couldnt afford this agreement as he had two 
recent County Court Judgements against his name and around £18,000 of live existing debt 
that he had to repay, which included some defaulted accounts. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Startline will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
I can see that Startline asked for and received details of Mr Bs proposed income from his 
new employment. Ive seen a copy of the offer of employment which states that Mr B would 
be paid £28,000 each year during a three-month probationary period, with the salary 
increasing to £30,000 if his probation was successful. I think it was reasonable for Startline 
to have relied on this as proof that Mr B would be receiving this level of income. I accept that 
the offer of stable, regular income was conditional on Mr B successfully passing his 
probation. However, there was no presumable reason why that was in doubt at the time of 
the application. 
I note though that Startline hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed. Ive 
therefore relied on a copy of screenshots from Mr Bs credit file that has been supplied by 
him. I think this gives a good indication of what Startline would likely have seen. At the time 
of the application it shows that Mr B had two County Court Judgments from 2016, one of 
which was for a Judgment debt of £18,000 which was a significant amount of money. I think 
this was a recent indicator that Mr B was likely to have been struggling financially. It 
therefore would have been proportionate for Startline to have got a more thorough 
understanding of Mr Bs financial circumstances before lending. I think bearing in mind the 
recent County Court Judgements, it would have been proportionate for Startline to have 
verified Mr Bs committed monthly expenditure. 
One of the ways that Startline could have verified Mr Bs expenditure was by reviewing his 
bank statements. In the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed Mr Bs statements for the 
three months prior to this finance agreement being accepted. I think this gives a good 
indication of what Startline would likely have found out had it completed proportionate 
checks. 
The statements show that Mr B had a number of existing, committed credit commitments as 
well as other apparent commitments. However, the difficulty here in assessing what Mr Bs 
likely monthly expenditure was, is that these payments were not always made each month 
and fluctuated in amounts quite significantly. For example, I can see that there is an entry in 
August 2017 to an individual for bills of £400 which, from what Ive seen, isnt replicated or 
repeated in the following two months. I note also that there were payments to two credit 
cards, to which Mr B paid a combined total of around £181 in August 2017, £328 in 
September 2017 and £90 in October 2017. I can see payments of around £50 and £60 to 
two separate communications providers, £50 to what appears to have been a catalogue 
shopping company and a water bill payment of around £160 in September 2017 (which may 
have been a quarterly bill which would equate to around a cost of £40 each month). 
But the picture is muddied further by multiple payments each month going to a particular 
company with vastly different overall totals, but with no indication of what these payments 
were for being as they were merely described as going to the company in question. By my 
rough estimation, and going by what is shown on the bank statements Ive looked at, 
payments of £950 went to this company in August 2017 but this dropped to £190 in 
September 2017 and then increased to £500 in October 2017. 
I note also that our investigator asked Mr B to confirm his monthly mortgage or rent costs. 
He said, in summary, that these costs werent fixed and that he paid what he could, when he 
could to various landlords and individuals at the time. I think it therefore difficult to say that 
Startline would have been able to attribute an estimated, likely cost each month to Mr Bs 
living costs. 
Overall, I havent been persuaded that the information I have about Mr Bs committed 
monthly expenditure was enough to show that the agreement was likely to be unaffordable 
or unsustainable. I think that the payments I have mentioned above of £950, £190 and £500 
likely wouldnt have been included as a committed expense by Startline. 
I say this because these overall amounts comprised multiple smaller transactions of different 
amounts and at different periods of time each month. So, I think this could have been 
assessed by Startline as being something that Mr B likely didnt need to commit to. I 
appreciate that this may well not have been the case, but I cant be sure Mr B wouldnt have 
said the same thing. Mr B was also anticipating regular, committed income of around £1,900 
each month which would have risen to around £2,000 if he successfully passed probation. Overall, and bearing in mind Mr Bs financial situation at the time isnt entirely clear to me, 
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show the agreement was unaffordable to 
him or that Startline acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
So, for the reasons Ive given above, I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman