DRN-3473481
The complaint
Mr E complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited, has rejected the claim she made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel 
system she says was misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mr E is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In August 2018, Mr E purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr E financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni that was 
repayable over ten years.
In March 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Es behalf under section 75 of the Act to Omni. 
The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr 
E to enter into the contract. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The Credit Agreement will be "self-funded" by virtue of the Feed-In Tariff ("FIT") 
payments, generated by the PV Solar system.
The total cost of the system was documented as £8,500.00. This was to mislead 
Mr E, because the actual cost of the system including interest was £13,185.88. 
Omni responded to the claim and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr E. However, Omni identified there was a shortfall in the electricity 
generated in year one, even accounting for a reasonable margin of error in the estimate 
provided by S. To put this right, Omni reduced the amount owed on the loan agreement to 
reflect the resultant shortfall in FIT payments received by Mr E. Omni said that the evidence 
indicated the system was on course to generate the expected amount of electricity in year 
two, and as such the system appeared to be working as expected. 
The CMC complained about this to Omni on behalf of Mr E. Omni issued a final response 
saying it thought its response to the claim was fair. The CMC then referred the matter to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into this and spoke to Mr E directly about his recollection of the sale. 
Mr E remembered the figures in the sales documents being discussed, but says he had the 
impression that he would be paid £100 per month by the government and that his monthly 
loan repayment was £110 per month for ten years. Having considered the evidence, our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
The CMC didnt agree with this. It said:
This decision is not accepted, please escalate to an Ombudsman.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr E paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr E could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have 
claimed against S. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr E and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by S as an agent of Omni. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided in this case. These include the credit 
agreement, Quotation/Order form and estimated returns sheet.
The Quotation/Order form is a two-page document which sets out key information about the 
system, the expected performance and financial benefits. Im satisfied that it formed a 
central part of the sales process (as it appears to have been completed and signed during 
the sales meeting) and is therefore relevant, alongside Mr Es recollection of the sale, when 
considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. The estimated returns sheet 
also appears to have been completed and discussed during that meeting.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Quotation/Order form
The Quotation/Order form set out the cost of the system as follows:On the next page it set out the benefits as follows:
I think the sales contract is clear that the system would cost £8,500.00. I think it is also clear 
that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to be £495.16. This figure includes FIT 
payments (generation and export) and the value of electricity savings based on Mr E using 
1,702 kWh of the electricity generated by the system.
There is also an estimated returns sheet which shows:
I think this clearly shows a shortfall between the monthly payment and the monthly benefit of 
between £46.21 and £68.90. I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-
funding. 
I think these documents were an integral part of the sale and these figures would most likely 
have been discussed with Mr E, not least because he seems recall that happening. So, I 
think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system in 
the way Mr E has alleged. It seems more likely that Mr E wouldve been told that, after 
accounting for the benefit provided by the system, he would be contributing at least £41.26 
per month towards the loan repayments. 
Considering Mr Es recollection of the sale, he appears to have expected a benefit of £100 
per month, while knowing he would be paying £110 per month in loan repayments. As such, 
according to what he remembers, he was not told the system would be self-funding.
Summary
Omni identified some issues with the benefits during the first year, but have offered a 
resolution to that which appears fair and reasonable. 
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr E 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman