DRN-2457986
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S are unhappy with the settlement figure offered by UK General on behalf of 
Great Lakes Insurance SE, following a claim for escape of water (EOW) through their home 
insurance policy. 
This policy was underwritten by UK General on behalf of Great Lakes Insurance SE. UK 
General dealt with the claim on behalf of Great Lakes Insurance SE, against whom this 
complaint is recorded. But Ill refer to the business as UK General in my response as thats 
who Mr S and Mrs S have been dealing with. 
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S took out a home insurance policy in July 2018. They raised a claim for water 
damage in June 2019. UK General accepted the claim. And agreed that the policy extended 
to cover the cost of appointing a surveyor to prepare a schedule of necessary water damage 
repairs. Mr S and Mrs S selected a surveyor to undertake this task. UK General say they 
agreed to pay surveyors fees at 11% of an agreed contract sum. UK General and Mr S and 
Mrs S hadnt agreed the contract sum at the point that the surveyors fee percentage was 
agreed at 11%.
Mr S and Mrs Ss assessor appointed a surveyor to draw up a schedule of repairs. UK 
Generals loss adjusters (LA) felt that the schedule included work that wasnt necessary to 
repair the EOW damage. Therefore UK Generals own surveyors prepared a schedule of 
repairs that they felt suitable to reinstate the property for the damage caused by the EOW. 
UK Generals schedule was passed to two contractors who submitted their tenders for 
repairs. There was a big difference between the repair costs put forward by Mr S and Mrs 
Ss surveyor and UK Generals assessor, as the schedules of work were so different. UK 
General asked its builders to quote on what they felt were necessary repairs caused by the 
EOW incident. UK General felt that Mr S and Mrs Ss builders had included items which 
werent damaged as a result of the EOW incident.
UK Generals preferred contractors were willing and able to undertake the necessary repairs, 
for which they had quoted £14,033 plus VAT. UK General say their preferred contractors had 
provided a line by line schedule of works covering the items that had been damaged by the 
EOW incident. They say that Mr S and Mrs Ss preferred contractor didnt provide that level 
of detail and had included items which hadnt been damaged by the EOW incident. But Mr S 
and Mrs S didnt want to use UK Generals preferred contractors as they were unhappy with 
the way their claim had been handled. They had complained to this service separately about 
that. They wanted to use a contractor chosen by their surveyors. The quote theyd received 
from their preferred contractor was for £30,499.10 plus VAT. UK General didnt agree that 
this contractor could be used as they felt their preferred contractor could do the required 
work for a lower fee. But UK General accepted that Mr S and Mrs S didnt want to use the 
contractors theyd suggested. So UK General offered a cash settlement of £20,000 plus VAT 
for the repairs. And £2,200 (11% of £20,000) plus VAT for the surveyors fees. UK General 
noted that the cash settlement was more than the quotes they obtained from their 
contractors. UK General felt it represented a compromise settlement. UK General said they 
believe that the payments they made to Mr S and Mrs S would allow them to complete all 
agreed EOW repairs.
Mr S and Mrs S didnt accept this. They felt that UK General had accepted their surveyors 
fee at 11% of their contractors costs, not 11% of a lower settlement fee. So they felt UK 
General had accepted a total surveyors fee of 11% of £30,499.10 plus VAT, which is 
£3,354,90 plus VAT, or £4,025.88, not £2,200 plus VAT, or £2,640. They also didnt think UK 
General had treated them fairly when theyd not allowed them to use the contractor chosen 
by their surveyor. So they complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint. She felt that the settlement offer 
made and the offer on the surveyors fee were fair and reasonable. And that they were 
enough to allow the damage from the EOW to be repaired.
Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree. So their complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr S and Mrs Ss policy schedule says the following:
YOUR POLICY COVER
Following an Insured Event resulting from a Home Emergency the Insurer will pay Your 
Costs & Expenses up to the Limit of Cover provided that.:
-You always agree to use the Contractor nominated by Us in any claim.
Contractor itself is defined as:
The contractor or tradesman appointed by Us to act on Your behalf
The Significant Features or Limitations section repeats:
You always agree to use the Contractor nominated by us
So Im persuaded that Mr S and Mrs Ss home insurance policy documents were clear about 
the requirement for them to use a contractor nominated by UK General. Although Mr S and 
Mrs S said that theyd never accept UK Generals contractor on their claim, that doesnt 
mean that UK General must use Mr S and Mrs Ss preferred contractor. When it became 
clear that neither UK General nor Mr S and Mrs S would accept the others preferred 
contractor, UK General offered a cash settlement.
Looking at the difference in costs, theres an important principle here which I will set out in 
detail. Our view is that if an insurer offers to repair, but the customer insists on a cash 
settlement for a claim, then the insurer cant impose a repair on them. But the insurer would 
then only need to provide a cash settlement based on what it would cost them to get the 
work done. This is because the insurer is willing to indemnify the customer by carrying out 
repairs to put them back in the position they were in before the damage/loss. If the customer 
prefers cash, it wouldnt be fair to the insurer to insist they pay the full cost to the customer, 
as this will almost always be more expensive for the insurer.
So when Mr S and Mrs S declined to use UK Generals preferred contractors, UK General 
couldve offered to pay no more than it wouldve cost them to make the necessary repairs 
using an insurance schedule of rates. In fact, their preferred contractor was selected using a traditional tender process. So the rates UK General were quoted by their preferred 
contractor were rates that were available to the general public. 
It appears from the evidence that the exact schedule of works was never completely agreed 
between UK General and Mr S and Mrs S. This means that necessary repairs were never 
agreed between both parties. In their final response letter of 28 April 2020, UK General said 
that the scope of work put forward by Mr S and Mrs Ss preferred contractor included items 
that were not required as a result of the EOW incident or could be covered by the policy and 
so shouldn't be included within the scope. They had asked that before Mr S and Mrs Ss 
surveyors looked to obtain repair quotes that the schedule of repairs needed to be amended 
and then agreed by them. As this wasnt done, UK General said that Mr S and Mrs Ss 
preferred contractors schedule couldn't be accepted. I note that in an e-mail dated 5 March 
2020, when discussing Mr S and Mrs Ss preferred contractors quote, UK Generals LA 
states that a more specific schedule of works would have been necessary and would have 
put us in a position to review the costs and scope in greater detail. In the same e-mail, UK 
Generals LA states that Mr S and Mrs Ss representative refused to review our preferred 
contractors schedule. And said that there is no negotiation from his side.  Ive seen a 
detailed schedule from UK Generals preferred contractor. And Ive seen a much less 
detailed one from Mr S and Mrs Ss preferred contractor. So its not possible for me to state 
with any certainty whether UK Generals preferred contractor had covered all the necessary 
repairs in its schedule. Having said that, I havent seen any evidence that it didnt include all 
necessary repairs. And Ive seen no submissions from Mr S and Mrs S or their 
representative about what, if anything, was missing. Ive seen that UK General have 
considered any missing items Mr S and Mrs S have noted and added them where 
necessary. Theyve explained why certain items, for example changing all the external door 
locks didn't need to be included because they werent necessary. So I cant say that UK 
Generals preferred contractors line by line schedule didnt cover all the required work. 
If UK Generals preferred contractors line by line schedule of works did cover all the 
required work, then, under the terms of the policy, UK General were entitled to offer £14,033 
plus VAT in settlement. Thats what their preferred contractor said he could do the required 
work for. But they offered £20,000 plus VAT. They offered more than the minimum as they 
wanted to allow for contingencies, or other variations, that could appear over time. UK 
General were entitled to settle for £14,033 plus VAT, although necessary repairs hadnt 
been defined or agreed between both parties, But I can see that UK General did try to agree 
to a line by line schedule with Mr S and Mrs S. £20,000 plus VAT allows for a much larger 
scope than the £14,033 plus VAT quoted on a line by line basis by UK Generals preferred 
contractor. So I think UK General acted fairly and reasonably when they offered a settlement 
of £20,000 plus VAT. 
As a gesture of goodwill, UK General have already paid the VAT (£4,000) to Mr S and Mrs 
S, although this is usually paid later on in the process. Other smaller payments have been 
made by UK General to settle other additional items that had already been noted.
Having carefully reviewed all the information available, Im not persuaded that the settlement 
offers made to Mr S and Mrs S isnt fair and reasonable to adequately allow successful 
repairs to the damage caused by the EOW. So Im satisfied that UK General acted fairly and 
reasonably when it based the cost of the works on the quote from their preferred contractor, 
rather than the contractor Mr S and Mrs S preferred. 
Mr S and Mrs Ss policy schedule also states the following:
You are not covered for any claim:
-where Costs & Expenses have been incurred before We accept a claim.
It also states:Settlement
You must not negotiate, settle the claim or agree to pay any Costs & Expenses incurred 
without Our agreement.
UK General said that their LA asked for the schedule of repairs produced by Mr S and Mrs 
Ss surveyors to be updated before Mr S and Mrs Ss surveyors went to tender with it. They 
said the scope was too broad. UK Generals LA said the scope needed to be amended and 
agreed by UK General first. This didnt happen. So the subsequent prices quoted by the 
contractors who responded to Mr S and Mrs Ss surveyors werent against an agreed 
schedule of work. So UK General couldnt accept them.
I can see that UK General didnt approve the schedule of repairs provided by Mr S and Mrs 
Ss surveyors. And given the wording in their policy schedule, Mr S and Mrs S shouldnt 
have assumed that their surveyors costs could be based on their preferred contractors 
quote of £30,499.10. So I cant see any evidence that UK General did anything wrong when 
it wouldnt accept surveyors fees based on that quote. UK General have offered surveyors' 
fees based on the agreed 11% of the settlement offer of £20,000 plus VAT. Taking all of the 
evidence into account, I can see that this is a fair and reasonable offer under the 
circumstances. So I wont ask UK General to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman