DRN-3849014
The complaint
Ms B has complained about MCE Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about the cancellation 
fee it charged when she cancelled her motorbike insurance policy in the cooling off period.
What happened
Ms B took out insurance for her motorbike through her broker MCE. Ms B went on to cancel 
the policy as she wasnt happy with the policy within the 14-day cooling off period. But she 
was charged a £30 cancellation fee by the insurer, a £60 cancellation fee by MCE and her 
time on cover. Her insurer went on to waive their cancellation fee, but Ms B remained 
unhappy about MCEs charge, so she complained to MCE and then this Service about this.
Our investigator looked into things for Ms B and upheld her complaint. Although she 
accepted MCE made it clear that it would charge an admin or cancellation fee in the cooling 
off period in its policy documentation she thought its fee (£60) was high. So, she asked MCE 
to explain why it charged £60 and as it wouldnt, as it said the data was commercially 
sensitive, she asked it to only charge £25. This was because this was in line with the kind of 
charge this Service generally sees. 
As MCE didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigator that this complaint should be upheld, and Ms B 
should only be charged a cancellation fee of £25. Ill explain why. 
I know MCE feels it has acted fairly and in line with its terms and conditions in charging £60 
but I agree with our investigator that this seems high and is generally more than we tend to 
see, especially within the cooling off period. Our investigator provided some examples of 
lesser charges made by other brokers and insurers and it is often free for consumers to 
cancel within the cooling off period. And she asked MCE to provide an explanation and 
some supporting evidence to show why it charges the amount if has charged which I think is 
a fair and reasonable question.
MCE has said this is commercially sensitive, but this Service is often provided with very 
sensitive data in order to verify things which we dont divulge. We simply use it to reassure 
ourselves that consumers are being treated in a fair and reasonable way. So, in this 
instance, as we cant confirm the position and that Ms B is being treated fairly and hasnt 
been overcharged when she cancelled her policy in the cooling off period, I agree it would be 
fair to only charge Ms B £25 to cancel her policy plus the charge for time on cover.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require MCE Insurance 
Limited to refund Ms B £35 of the total cancellation fee it charged (£60).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman