DRN-1690588
The complaint
Ms E has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). Ms E paid a monthly fee for this account which 
came with a number of benefits. Ms E says that Halifax pressured into taking out the her 
URCA and she was told the benefits would be useful to her. 
Ms E is also unhappy that two insurance claims were declined.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Ms Es complaint. He did not think that the URCA was 
mis-sold. Ms E did not agree with this and so asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
complaint. 
I should at this point clarify that I am only looking into the sale of the account itself and 
whether Halifax was responsible for giving mis-information that caused Ms E a financial loss. 
I am not looking into whether the insurance claims were declined incorrectly or at the 
overdraft charges that were added to the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Ms Es complaint. I know 
this is going to come as a disappointment to Ms E, but after giving this case a lot of thought, 
I dont think the account was mis-sold to her. I know this isnt the outcome that she was 
hoping for. But I hope that my explanation will help her to understand how I have come to 
this conclusion.
I've started by thinking about whether Ms E was aware the URCA was optional and whether 
she was given a clear choice in taking out the account. I think its more likely than not that 
she was. I say this because she had previously had a fee free bank account Halifax for many 
years, so I think that she wouldve been aware that free accounts existed and were an option 
for her. Ms E says that she was pressured into taking out the account as she was told how 
great the benefits that the account came with were. I accept that Halifax may have strongly 
encouraged Ms E to take out the account, but I cant see that she was put in a position were 
she felt that she had not choice to proceed with the upgrade. So overall I think that Ms E was 
given a fair choice to take out the account and she chose to do so.
Ms E says that the account was recommended to her and that it was unsuitable for her 
needs. Halifax have explained that its usual process was not to provide a personal 
recommendation. I have carefully considered this, but I dont think that whether the account 
was recommended to Ms E changes the outcome of this complaint. I say this because 
ultimately Halifax only offer one paid for account, and, as long as some of the benefits 
couldve been of use to her, the recommendation would be broadly suitable.
To explain, at the time the account was take out the major benefits that it came with included 
worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown cover, home emergency cover and mobile phone 
insurance. And it offered better overdraft facilities including a fee free overdraft of up to 
£300. I dont know exactly what Halifax said or what information it gave Ms E about the 
URCA. But I think its likely Halifax wouldve mentioned the major benefits that the account 
came with as it was, after all, trying to make the account seems attractive to Ms E. From 
what I can see, Ms E had a need for Travel insurance and mobile phone insurance, and she 
used her overdraft so couldve benefited from the £300 fee free portion of that. So if the 
account was recommended just for these benefits then the recommendation would be 
broadly okay, even if she could not use all the benefits the account came with. I note that Ms 
E says that she held some of the other benefits elsewhere, but I cant see any reason why 
Ms E could not have cancelled that cover and relied on the cover that the account came with 
if she wished to do so.
Ms E has explained that she was not given enough information about the account and this in 
turn led her to having to claims declined. She says that as she has a disability Halifax 
shouldve adapted the way it communicated with her. When considering this issue, I accept 
that Ms E may not have been told everything about all of the features of the account, but I 
need to consider whether anything that Ms E was not told either caused a claim to be 
declined or wouldve altered her decision to take out the account.
 
In relation to the mobile phone insurance, Ms E says that she tried to claim on that policy but 
was told that as she had not registered her mobile phone she could not claim. It is my 
understanding, though, that there was no requirement to register a mobile phone during the 
period that the account was held. With this in mind, I cant say that Halifax misinformed her 
in a way that caused her claim to be declined. That said, if she thinks that her claim was 
declined incorrectly, she would need to direct her concerns to the insurance provider.
In relation to her travel insurance claim about substandard accommodation being declined, I 
can see that Ms E has mentioned two things. Firstly, she says that she was unaware that the 
account had travel insurance so did not make a claim. Secondly, she says that her claim 
was declined as she did not say that she was going on holiday. Looking at the information 
provided by Halifax, it appears that the insurer was contacted by Ms E prior to the holiday in 
question, and it was contacted after the holiday as well. So, I cant see that Halifax mis-
informed her about the insurance in the way she has indicated. Again if Ms E thinks that her 
claim was declined incorrectly she would need to direct her concerns to the insurance 
provider.
I havent seen anything else that Ms E was not told that I think that wouldve led to her not 
taking out the URCA.
Ms E has also referred to the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin v Paragon Personal 
Finance Limited. That case concerned the sale of a PPI policy alongside a loan. The 
Supreme Court ruled in Plevin that the failure by the lender to disclose to Mrs Plevin the 
large commissions payable out of her PPI premium made the lenders relationship unfair 
under s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Ms Es complaint is about a different product, funded in a different way, to the facts of the 
Plevin case. So the situation is entirely different, and I dont think the findings in the Plevin 
judgement change my view about what is fair and reasonable in this case.
 
So, having carefully considered everything, I dont think the URCA was mis-sold to Ms E. I 
therefore think it would be unreasonable to require Halifax to refund Ms E the account fees 
that shes been charged whilst shes held the URCA. I completely understand that this will be frustrating to Ms E as she strongly feels that her account was mis-sold. I also understand 
that with the benefit of hindsight the URCA may not have represented good value for money 
to her. But I cant uphold her complaint due to this: I can only uphold the complaint about the 
sale of the account if it was sold incorrectly and for the reasons set out above I dont think it 
was.
This final decision represents the end of our services process. If Ms E decides not to accept 
it, she remains free to take any further action she so wishes to about the case elsewhere, 
including in the courts. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman