DRN-4469129
The complaint
Miss S complains about cosmetic treatment she bought using finance from Mitsubishi HC 
Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Capital (Novuna).
What happened
The background facts of this case are well known to the parties so I will only cover these 
briefly.
Miss S bought dental treatment from a clinic (the supplier) using a fixed sum loan from 
Novuna. However, she is unhappy with the results she has received and says the dentist 
has not completed the treatment and there were interruptions to it. 
Miss S approached Novuna for a full refund of the treatment under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). However, it refused to refund her because it 
considered the supplier had met its obligations and acted fairly. It suggested that Miss S get 
an independent expert report in order that it could review the matter further for her.
Miss S complained about the outcome of her claim but Novuna did not offer her the full 
refund she wants. It did offer to pay her £200 for treatment she didnt receive.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but did not uphold it. She considered that Novuna 
had answered the Section 75 claim in a fair way.
Miss S has asked for an ombudsman to consider the case and make a final decision. In 
summary, she says:
Her teeth have moved back to a point at which they were when the treatment started.
She did not lose faith in the supplier  it refused to see her again which is shown by a 
letter it sent her.
She purchased a treatment that was not completed and expert medical knowledge is 
not needed to show this.
She never signed a contract. 
The £200 refund for the appointment she did not attend should be given to her 
anyway and ultimately she paid for a service she is unhappy with.
This is not just about getting a refund  she wants her teeth sorted out and the whole 
situation has impacted her mental health  she no longer smiles in pictures and 
avoids getting involved in family pictures.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the information provided by the parties but I will only comment on what I 
consider to be key. This is not intended as a discourtesy but reflects my role resolving 
disputes informally.
I am sorry to hear Miss S is unhappy with her treatment and how she says it has impacted 
her overall wellbeing. However, it is important to note here that Novuna is not the supplier of 
dentistry and I am considering its role as a provider of financial services only. In that respect 
in deciding what is fair and reasonable I consider its role in responding to Section 75 claims 
to be relevant  it is this I will focus on here.
Section 75
In order for Miss S to have a Section 75 claim against Novuna certain initial requirements in 
law need to be met. This relates to matters such as the cash price of the service and the 
relationship of the parties to the agreement. I am satisfied those initial requirements are met 
here.
Section 75 allows Miss S to hold Novuna responsible for a like claim for breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier. So in considering if Novuna has responded fairly to the 
Section 75 claim I have thought about the information available to it (or reasonably available 
to it) at the time of the claim and if this shows the supplier has breached or misrepresented 
its agreement with Miss S.
I note here that the issues Miss S has with the treatment she has received appears to fall 
into two broad categories. One is related to the quality of the treatment she did receive, the 
other is about disruption and discontinuation of the service. I will deal with these separately 
in order to decide if Novuna has acted fairly.
The quality of the treatment
In assessing the quality of the treatment received and whether there has been a breach of 
contract I consider the express terms of any agreement between the parties and any implied 
terms.
In this case I consider the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is particularly relevant as it implies a 
term into consumer contracts in respect of services as follows:
 that services will be performed with reasonable care and skill 
I know Miss S is unhappy with the results she got from the treatment  but it is important to 
note that whether a service was carried out with reasonable care and skill wont necessarily 
be about getting desirable results  but the manner in which the service was carried out and 
whether it was done in accordance with accepted standards in that industry. With that in 
mind Miss S purchased a complex cosmetic/medical product involving a procedure on the 
human body and something which I do not have expertise in. It is commonly known that 
there are many variables and risks with a cosmetic/medical treatment  and unlike some 
other less complex services there is often a reasonable expectation that things may not 
always turn out as planned. So judging whether the supplier has acted without reasonable 
care and skill or breached the contract in some other way (even if discussions took place 
about desired results at the outset) is not straightforward in situations like this. I have taken 
this into account when deciding if Novuna acted fairly in its response to the claim Miss S 
raised under Section 75. It is particularly challenging with a lack of independent expert evidence to say there has 
been a breach of reasonably expected professional standards here, further compounded 
with a lack of paperwork to show what was explicitly agreed between the parties (along with 
any conditions on this) at the outset (in fact Miss S says she didnt sign anything). This 
service and the financial business (unlike a court) is not able to compel witnesses for cross 
examination either  which makes getting to the bottom of things much more difficult.
I note here that Novuna did have sight of a letter from the clinician who treated Miss S for 
the supplier. They had written to Miss S in April 2021 to explain the treatment received was 
as it should have been and that they did everything that was clinically possible and in your 
best interests. So on the face of it, the supplier does not accept that the contract was carried 
out incorrectly/without due care and skill. With the suppliers strong rebuttal of the allegations 
against it and in the absence other persuasive evidence (such as an expert report) and 
considering the complexities and variables involving a cosmetic/medical treatment I am not 
able to fairly say Novuna acted unreasonably in not accepting that the treatment was carried 
out inappropriately.
I know that Miss S says she has had difficulty in sourcing an expert report to assess the 
treatment she received. I am sorry to hear this, however, I dont think it is fair in the 
circumstances here (and in light of information from the supplier) to expect Novuna to have 
concluded that the treatment was carried out wrongly based purely on the testimony she has 
provided to it. 
Disruption/discontinuation of the service
A key aspect of the claim Miss S made to Novuna is that she didnt receive the complete 
treatment she was entitled to  and the treatment she did get was disrupted.
From what I can see Novuna has been presented with information which indicated that the 
disruption in treatment was as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. This meant that the 
suppliers practice was closed to face to face appointments at times  and there were certain 
restrictions as to how it could interact with patients.
While I am sorry to hear that Miss S appears to have been impacted by this it was seemingly 
outside the control of the supplier and likely as a result of government restrictions. So I dont 
think this would constitute a breach of contract here for the purposes of her Section 75 claim. 
Such an eventuality could be covered by a certain provision (called a Force Majeure 
clause) in the contract  but even if that were not the case it is likely to be considered a 
frustrated contract rather than a breached one. Miss S might be able to pursue a claim in 
court in respect of frustration  but it isnt something that Novuna is liable for under Section 
75. So in respect of the service disruptions (which are likely a result of the pandemic) I dont 
think there is a clear case for breach of contract by the supplier here. 
I have considered more generally if the supplier appears to have breached its contract with 
Miss S by not providing her with the service. In doing so I note that after investigating things 
Novuna concluded that Miss S had completed most of the treatment and the supplier had 
made reasonable efforts to provide the rest of it. 
Based on the information I have seen including system notes from the supplier (showing the 
appointments provided and treatment notes) and its letter of response to Miss S (explaining 
the treatment carried out and noting that it was near finalisation) I dont think Novuna has 
come to an unreasonable conclusion here. 
I accept there are conflicting accounts as to exactly what happened between Miss S and the 
supplier. I know Miss S says she didnt refuse further treatment but the supplier refused to see her. However, from the information I have seen (including correspondence from the 
supplier and Novunas contact notes) there is a persuasive indication the supplier only said it 
would no longer offer Miss S treatment because Miss S had previously refused to attend 
further appointments, requested to terminate the contract and expressed a lack of trust in the 
clinician. It appears that prior to that point the supplier was open to continuing the treatment. 
Instead (as relations had apparently broken down) the solution it offered was to refund the 
£200 for the outstanding treatment and to post the lower retainer which it says it had already 
ordered for her. Based on this information I think it is difficult to fairly conclude there was a 
breach of contract which entitled Miss S to a further refund.
So, it follows that in offering to honour the £200 the supplier offered here I dont think that 
Novuna has acted unfairly in the way it handled the Section 75 claim. While it is difficult to 
say if £200 represents exactly what treatment was outstanding, considering the evidence 
suggests Miss S only had a very small amount of treatment remaining it doesnt seem an 
unfair amount on the face of it. I also note that it has offered to look at things again if Miss S 
is able to produce new information  which seems fair.
Putting things right
If Novuna (or the supplier) has not paid Miss S the £200 on offer to date then I direct Novuna 
to do so here. Of course Miss S is free not to accept my decision and pursue the matter in 
court if she wishes (seeking appropriate legal advice in the process).
My final decision
I direct Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Capital to pay Miss S £200 in 
respect of this complaint if she has not already received this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman