DRN-3446607
The complaint
Mr G (through a representative) has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as 
Safety Net Credit (SNC)) provided him with a credit facility he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr G approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in March 2018. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mr G was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mr G was initially given a facility with a £450 in March 2018. His limit was increased on a 
further three occasions with his final increase taking Mr Gs credit limit to £750 by October 
2018. 
SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman Service the balance on the facility was fully repaid 
on 31 July 2019.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Gs complaint and he though SNC shouldnt have 
granted the facility. The read only bank statements that SNC had access to showed that 
Mr G was spending a significant amount on betting websites meaning each month and so he 
couldnt afford or sustain the facility.   
Mr Gs representative acknowledged receipt of the adjudicators assessment, but no further 
comments were provided. 
SNC disagreed with the assessment. In summary, it didnt make any points about the 
outcome that was reached. Instead, it focused on whether the Financial Ombudsman had 
jurisdiction to consider the complaint. In summary it said: 
It hasnt received proper authorisation from Mr G to allow his representative to deal 
with the case.
SNC says that due to concerns over the representatives authorisation no valid 
complaint has ever been made which is why no final response has been issued. 
SNC therefore says it doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman has jurisdiction 
because no final response has been issued and so doesnt constitute a complaint as 
laid down by the rules (DISP). 
Although Mr Gs representative has provided a wet signature SNC doesnt have 
anything to compare it too.
The approach SNC takes to verify a consumer is reasonable and has his privacy and 
data protection in mind.
SNC has had concerns about the authority given and this has been backed up by the 
content of a Dear CEO letter from the industry regulator.
The adjudicator responded to SNCs concerns. He explained SNC had been given more 
than eight weeks to investigate Mr Gs complaint following the representatives complaint 
and from when we informed SNC that the complaint would be taken on and progressed. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mr G wasnt given a payday loan. Instead he was provided with a credit facility 
where there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Interest is charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following a 
drawdown. After 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that SNC gave Mr G this facility when 
it was regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and the relevant regulatory rules 
in place at the time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of 
the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance. 
Overall, the guidance didnt require SNC to carry out any set level of checks, but it did 
require its checks to be proportionate and any checks had to consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when the borrowing was due to be repaid. Put 
simply, the lender had to gather enough information so that it could make an informed 
decision on the lending.
Throughout the lifetime that Mr G had the facility SNC maintained read-only access to his 
bank statements, in order for it to allow SNC to monitor Mr Gs finances and to allow it to 
carry out additional affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mr Gs expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But, a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Mr Gs facility was approved for £450 SNC needed to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be in a position to make the repayment of around £30 per month, by carrying out a 
proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr Gs income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to his bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being granted. 
It then used an algorithm to establish what Mr Gs income and expenditure was, after 
completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr G could afford the minimum 
repayment towards the facility.  
It also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of the results SNC has provided, and, I dont think these results wouldve led SNC 
to either decline the application or prompt it to have carried out further checks into  Mr Gs 
situation before the facility was approved. 
Having reviewed the bank transaction data in the 90 days leading up to the facility being 
granted, I agree with the adjudicator that based on what SNC saw it shouldnt have 
advanced the facility.  
The facility was approved at the end of March 2018, and SNC wouldve been aware from the 
transaction data, that Mr G had spent almost his entire monthly income on gambling transactions by 5 March 2018. His income was around £1,800 and he spent in March just 
over £1,500 on such transactions. 
SNC also wouldve seen that after Mr G carried out those transactions there is very little 
movement on the rest of the account for the remainder of the month  the majority of the 
transactions being daily overdraft charges. A similar pattern of behaviour can be seen in 
Mr Gs bank transaction data for January and February 2018. 
SNC had access to the data and shouldve seen this, and having seen it, the only 
reasonable conclusion which can be drawn is that Mr G wasnt in any position to afford the 
repayments he was committed to making neither where the payments he was due to make 
sustainable.  
Its also worth noting here that CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial 
difficulties (which, of course, would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any 
repayment difficulties) may look like  but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not 
exhaustive. 
It is clear from the bank statements that in the month of the facility being approved, Mr G 
didnt have sufficient funds in order to meet all his commitments because I can see two 
returned direct debits, and this follows on from the one returned payment I can see in 
February 2018. 
On top of the returned payments and betting, I can also see that Mr G took out a high cost 
short-term loan at the start of March 2018 for £500  which cost Mr G more than £600 to 
repay at the start of April 2018. This loan alone was a commitment for almost a third of his 
salary. This loan was outstanding at the time the facility was approved, but Mr G had taken 
similar loans for similar amounts in January and February 2018. Its therefore reasonable to 
conclude that Mr G would carry on taking such loans in the future. 
So overall, the evidence of Mr G starting to use high cost short term loans and returned 
direct debits that indicated he was having financial difficulties along with the multiple 
payments to gambling website leads me to conclude that Mr G wasnt able to afford the 
facility that SNC had advanced him. 
Im therefore upholding Mr Gs complaint in full and I dont think SNC shouldve approved the 
facility. 
 
Putting things right
SNC shouldnt have approved the facility for Mr G and Ive outlined below what it needs to 
do in order to put things right for him. 
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from the start.
B) Treat all payments Mr G has made towards his account since it opened as though 
they had been repayments towards the outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mr G wouldve been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled.
D) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Gs credit file 
from when the account was opened.*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint in full.
Indigo Michael Limited trading as Safety Net Credit should put things right for Mr G as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman