DRN-2297483
The complaint
Mr W complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr W took out nine instalment loans with Mr Lender between November 2015 and          
July 2018. He repaid all the loans. A summary of Mr Ws lending with Mr Lender is as 
follows:
date £ amount 
borrowedno./ £ highest 
repayment
at outset (rounded)date repaid
113 November 2015 150 2/99 24 December 2015
224 December 2015 200 3/111 17 March 2016
317 March 2016 320 4/152 7 July 2016
423 July 2016 450 6/166 13 August 2016
525 August 2016 1,000 12/199 2 August 2017
66 October 2017 200 3/132 11 January 2018
711 January 2018 300 4/142 27 April 2018
827 April 2018 280 3/154 19 July 2018
925 July 2018 300 3/170 13 February 2018
Mr W says that he was dependent on the loans over many years. He says that Mr Lender 
didnt carry out appropriate checks before lending to him and that it shouldnt have given 
him the loans. He wants a refund of interest and charges, with interest.
One of our adjudicators looked at what had happened. She said that Mr Lender 
shouldnt have given Mr W loans four to nine. The adjudicator set out what she thought 
Mr Lender should do to put matters right.
In response to the adjudicators view, Mr Lender offered to compensate Mr W in relation to 
loans seven, eight and nine. It disagreed with the adjudicators assessment in relation to 
loans four, five and six. Mr Lender said that it would have been disproportionate to carry out 
a full financial review before loan four. It said that Mr Ws borrowing history didnt indicate 
any issue or provide cause for concern. Mr Lender referred to the additional questions it 
had asked Mr W to answer before loans four, five and six.
Mr W didnt accept Mr Lenders offer. As there was no agreement between the parties, the
complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
My provisional decision 
I sent both parties my provisional decision on 29 July 2020, in which I said that Mr Lender 
shouldnt have given Mr W loans five to nine. I said:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including 
all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr W could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr W could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and, in particular, the 
customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.Mr Lender asked Mr W about his monthly income and expenditure. I think that was 
proportionate for loans one to four and I dont think that Mr Lender was wrong to give
Mr W those loans. Given the repayment amounts, what Mr W said about his finances 
and circumstances at the time and his history with the lender at that point, I dont think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr W for the  information needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mr W 
provided or the information Mr Lender shouldve been aware of, which meant it 
wouldve been proportionate for it to start verifying what Mr W said for loans one to four.
I think that before loan five, Mr Lender should have taken steps to build a more detailed 
picture of Mr Ws financial situation. Mr Ws fifth loan was for considerably more than 
hed borrowed before and was repayable over a longer period than his previous loans. I 
think that if Mr Lender had sought to verify what Mr W said at this stage, it would have 
discovered, as I have, that Mr W had many other short-term loans at that time. I dont 
think that Mr Lender should have given Mr W loan five.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr W, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Mr Lender should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the circumstances 
of Mr Ws case, I think that this point was reached by loan six. I say this because, by 
loan six, Mr W had been borrowing from Mr Lender with very little break for approaching 
two years. Whilst the amounts Mr W borrowed from loan six varied, the amounts 
borrowed increased for the rest of Mr Ws borrowing from Mr Lender.
Ive noted that there was a gap of around two months between Mr W repaying loan five 
and taking out loan six and that loan six was for much less than loan five. But I dont 
think that the gap was such that it broke the chain of lending. And whilst loan six was for 
much less than loan five, loan six was to be repaid over a shorter period, so the levels 
of the repayments were within a similar range.
From loan six, Mr W was provided with a new loan on the same day or within days of 
settling a previous one. So, Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Mr W was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was 
leaving in his finances and that Mr Ws indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr W wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. Loan nine was 
taken out approximately two years and eight months after Mr Ws first loan and it was 
for a larger amount. Mr W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt 
to Mr Lender over an extended period.
I think that Mr W lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 
six onwards because these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ws 
indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over 
an extended period. And the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so likely kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans. So, in addition to loan five, Im also upholding the 
complaint about loans six to nine and Mr Lender should put things right.Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W said that he had nothing further to add and agreed with my provisional decision.        
Mr Lender didnt agree. It said that:
Its credit check showed that Mr W didnt have other short-term loans at the time of 
loan five. 
Mr W wasnt reliant on its loans, as the amounts he borrowed decreased and there 
was a gap of 65 days between loans five and six. 
Its offer in relation to loans seven to nine was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Mr Lender says about its credit check at the time of loan five. Credit checks by 
prospective lenders dont show the full picture. For the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision, before loan five, Mr Lender should have done more: it should have built a more 
detailed picture of Mr Ws financial situation and sought to verify what Mr W said. If it had 
done that, it would have discovered that Mr W had many other short-term loans at this point. 
I dont think that the fluctuation in the amounts Mr W borrowed alters the outcome here. 
Broadly speaking, whilst the loan amounts for loans five to nine varied, the repayment 
periods did too, which meant that the levels of repayments were within a similar range. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think that the gap in borrowing between loans five 
and six was such that it broke the chain of lending. 
Ive considered whats been said and I remain of the view that Mr Lender shouldnt have 
given Mr W loans five to nine. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I require PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to:
refund all interest and charges Mr W paid on loans five to nine;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan five from Mr Ws credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans six to nine should be 
removed from Mr Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ws complaint in 
part. PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, should take the steps Ive set out above to 
put matters right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman