DRN-3069544
Complaint
Miss B has complained about the overdraft charges National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) applied to her current account. Shes said the charges added caused her 
financial hardship.
Background
Miss B also complained about the sale of a packaged bank account. But Miss B has already 
had a final answer from us on that complaint and the sale of the account or the effect of any 
packaged account charges added wont be looked at in this final decision.
Miss Bs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that NatWest 
had done anything wrong as Miss B hadnt said she was in financial difficulty and the 
charges were applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account. So she didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts NatWest charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at NatWests charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Miss B if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Miss Bs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Miss B was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where NatWest didnt treat Miss B fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where NatWest continued 
charging Miss B even though it ought to have known she was in financial difficulty or it ought 
to have realised this was the case. Ive also looked through Miss Bs statements throughout 
the period concerned I cant see that NatWest ought to have been aware that Miss B might 
have been struggling during the period weve looked at. 
The charges on Miss Bs account were incurred sporadically. And while Im not seeking to 
make retrospective value judgements over Miss B expenditure, nonetheless there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions as 
transfers to another account going from the account too. Equally the amount being credited 
to Miss Bs account each month didnt indicate that she was struggling either.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Miss B wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted NatWest to potential financial difficulty. So, in these 
circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Miss B, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for NatWest to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. And I dont think 
NatWest unfairly charged Miss B in circumstances where it ought to have realised that she 
may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Ive also seen Miss B has said we havent taken into account that it was the packaged 
account fee, which she says she didnt agree to, that caused these charges. I dont know 
whether or not this is the case. But as Ive already explained, Miss B has had an answer to 
this part of her complaint. And as this is the case, I cant comment on whether NatWest 
applied this charge fairly and Miss Bs points in relation to this dont affect my thinking on this 
case. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that NatWest needs to refund any 
interest, fees and charges and Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. I appreciate that this 
will be very disappointing for Miss B  especially as she has been waiting sometime for this 
decision. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel 
her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman