DRN-4346730
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the service provided by HCC International Insurance Company 
Plc trading as Tokio Marine (HCC) following a claim for a missing diamond, under their 
home insurance policy.
HCC are the underwriters of this policy. Part of the complaint concerns the actions of the 
agent. As HCC has accepted it is accountable for the actions of its agents, any reference to 
HCC in my decision includes the action of its agents.
Although the policy is in joint names Mr F has brought the complaint so, for ease, Ill refer to 
him throughout this decision. 
What happened
Mrs F lost the diamond from her engagement ring. The loss was reported to the insurer who 
accepted the claim on 27 July 2022. HCC asked for an estimate for a replacement on a like 
for like basis. 
Mr F says he provided the replacement quotation from a local jeweller to HCC, who then 
passed it on to their own jeweller. Mr F says the jeweller harassed him by phone relentlessly. 
Mr F took advice from a number of reputable jewellers and says following this he told HCC 
he didnt want to use their jeweller to replace the stone in his wifes ring. Mr F says HCC 
passed this message onto their jeweller who continued to contact him, despite him saying he 
didnt wish to be contacted. 
Mr F says he made it clear he didnt want their jeweller to replace the stone so HCC offered 
a cash settlement in lieu of repairs. Mr F says the cash settlement is substantially below the 
costs of a reputable jeweller and is based on a quote from HCCs jeweller, which further 
confirms his lack of confidence in the insurers jeweller. 
Mr F tried to negotiate with HCC to increase the value of the cash settlement. Mr F has 
confirmed he does not wish to accept the cash settlement as its too low, and he doesnt want 
HCCs jeweller to work on the ring. He asked HCC to provide him with quotes from reputable 
jewellers so he can choose who will carry out the work. But HCC has refused to do this.
Mrs F has been without her engagement ring for in excess of six months. The cash 
settlement from the insurers is insufficient to replace the diamond and repair the ring. The 
ring was purchased from a high-end jeweller and so he wants the work done by a jeweller 
with sufficient quality and experience to make it a like for like replacement. 
Mr F wants a cash settlement sufficient to allow him to have the diamond replaced and ring 
repaired based on the average of three reputable jewellers of quality comparable to the 
original supplier. 
HCC said it didnt agree the replacement diamond offered was inadequate in quality. It said 
the replacement diamond would exceed the quality of the lost diamond; with a higher colour 
scale than the lost one. HCC said the settlement proposal is fair and reasonable, as is the 
cash settlement which has been offered in line with the terms of the policy. And so the 
complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr F referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into things for 
him. He said he thought HCC acted reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions. Mr 
F didnt agree. So the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Im genuinely sorry that Mr and Mrs F suffered this loss. I cant imagine how upsetting 
it would have been for Mrs F to find the diamond was missing from her ring. 
Id like to reassure Mr F that Ive considered all the information he has provided as well as 
his comments. My role here is to look at whether HCCs handling of the claim was fair and in 
line with the terms of the policy. I have read the policy terms to understand the cover 
provided. 
There is no dispute the diamond from Mrs Fs ring is missing. HCC accepted the claim. 
HCCs offer to settle the claim was to replace the diamond with one of at least the same size 
and quality and set it into the ring. Since Mr F was unhappy with the overall settlement offer, 
HCC also offered a cash settlement. HCC have been provided with a market value of 
£13,785 for the ring.
The policy says, We will provide cover to pay the costs of restoring, repairing, or replacing 
the contents you have chosen to insure up to the sum insured for each section shown in the 
schedule against physical loss or damagesubject to the conditions, exclusions and 
limitations contained within this policy wording. 
I have checked what the policy says in respect of how it deals with claims. It says;
Following insured loss or damage we will at our option decide whether to restore, repair or 
replace any items which are covered under the contents section.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied HCC has offered Mr F a reasonably matched 
replacement and can indemnify him. This means it can settle the claim fairly, without Mr F 
losing out, and I think this is what it should do under the policy. 
But Mr F has insisted on a cash settlement since he doesnt want to use HCCs supplier. So, 
HCC must pay cash to settle the claim. But HCC is only required to pay Mr F the cost it 
would pay  which might be less than the cost to Mr F. If thats not enough for Mr F to get a 
replacement I think thats fair. Because HCC gave Mr F the chance to be indemnified by 
replacement, but Mr F didnt take it. And I think it would be unfair for HCC to be forced to pay 
the cost to Mr F when its already done whats required under the policy. 
And from what Ive seen HCCs offer was fair and would put Mr F back in the position he 
would have been in before the stone went missing. 
Therefore I dont find it unreasonable that HCC offered Mr F a cash settlement as an 
alternative repair and I think the offer is fair. I can understand why Mr F thinks the cash settlement isnt a viable option, but it is nevertheless, in line with the terms of the policy. Im 
satisfied that HCCs offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Based on the options provided by HCC, and the policy terms and conditions, I think its acted 
fairly with the claim settlement its offered. It has fulfilled its obligation under the policy and 
has offered various options to get the claim settled. Im therefore not asking HCC to do 
anything further. 
I note Mr F has commented about the calls from HCCs third-party contractor where he felt 
the contractor was harassing him and making a number of calls. I was really sorry to read 
this. And while I have no reasons to doubt Mr Fs account, Ive been unable to listen to any 
of the calls, as it was with a third party. I have however looked at the file notes, and the other 
correspondence provided. I know this is an emotive claim, but Ive not seen anything to 
suggest HCC has provided a poor service. So it wouldnt be fair for me to ask HCC to do 
anything in this regard. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman