DRN-3284234
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the overdraft and other charges that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
applied to their current account in 2006 and 2007. They say these were too high and caused 
them financial difficulty. They also say that HSBC continued charging them excessive 
amounts when they were having repayment problems. They say this is against the lending 
code and so HSBC shouldnt have done this. 
Mr and Mrs G also complain about an overdraft charge that was incurred in 2019. They also 
say this was too high.
What happened
HSBC says that our service is unable to consider this complaint about the charges incurred 
in 2006 and 2007 because it says that Mr and Mrs G complained too late.
It has refunded the £75 charge it applied in 2019 and has paid Mr and Mrs G £100 in 
compensation as there was a delay in it considering their complaint about this.  
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she thought that Mr and Mrs G had 
complained too late in respect of the earlier charges. She thought that the compensation 
HSBC had offered for the 2019 charges was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Why I cant look into this complaint about the charges incurred in 2006 and 2007
Ive considered all of the available evidence and arguments provided by Mr and Mrs G and 
HSBC to decide whether we are able to look at this part of the complaint.
In respect of the 2006 and 2007 charges this decision will only address whether our service 
is able to consider the complaint. It wont address whether not HSBC should have applied, or 
continued to apply charges, in this time. Or if they were excessive.
The rules which I must apply say that - where a business doesnt agree our service can 
consider a complaint - I cant look at a complaint thats made more than six years after when 
whats being complained about happened. Or, if later, more than three years from when the 
person complaining knew, or should really have known, they had reason to complain.
Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R can be found at the website:
www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/2/8.html or a copy can be provided on request.
In this case, the charges were incurred in 2006 and 2007. The first time that I can see that 
Mr and Mrs G complained about the charges incurred in the 2000s was in 2019. Therefore, 
its clear that Mr and Mrs G have complained much more than six years after what they are 
complaining about happened.
But Mr and Mrs G might still have complained in time, if they did so within three years of 
when they either knew, or should really have known, that they had a reason to complain. So, 
I have considered whether they should really have known they had cause to complain more 
than three years prior to 2019.
Mr and Mrs G have provided some detail about their circumstances from when they started 
the accounts until they made this complaint. Essentially, Mr G says that the fees and 
charges caused him significant problems and negatively affected his finances, and health, 
between 2006 and 2007. He says there was no way out of this as the charges kept being 
applied.
So, I think its reasonable to say that Mr and Mrs G should have been aware that the fees 
and charges may have been causing them problems at a much earlier time and that that 
these charges may have been too high (Im not saying that they were here). So, I think Mr 
and Mrs G had enough information by the end of 2007 to know that they had reason to 
complain.
We can look at complaints that have been made too late if the delay was because of 
exceptional circumstances. Mr G has provided a number of reasons as to why his complaint 
was brought late. I have read all of what Mr and Mrs G have said about this, but I wont go 
into detail here. But for me to say that exceptional circumstances apply, I need to be 
satisfied that what Mr and Mrs G has told us about their circumstances wouldve completely 
prevented them from complaining within the time limits, or at the very least, sooner than they 
did.
Having thought about what Mr and Mrs G have said it is clear that they have had a very 
difficult time. Both Mr Gs financial circumstances, and his personal life, seem to have been 
very problematic over the time Im looking at. I genuinely hope things have improved for him 
and Mrs G. 
That said, as Ive mentioned above, an exceptional circumstance is one that entirely 
prevents someone from complaining. But, Mr and Mrs G have, at times been able to 
correspond with HSBC, including making and communicating about other complaints. Ive 
considered everything that Mr and Mrs G and HSBC have provided. I dont want Mr and 
Mrs G to think Ive underestimated the impact their circumstances had on them, I do 
appreciate the difficulty and strain Mr G says this put them under. But I dont think I can 
reasonably say that Mr and Mrs G were completely unable to make a complaint at some 
point between 2007 and when they did raise this complaint in 2019. 
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G. But my powers as an 
ombudsman only exist because of the rules that are in place, so I have to follow them. And I 
cant set them aside, unless there is an exceptional circumstance, even if Mr and Mrs G feel 
strongly that the charges applied in that were applied were too high.
What Ive decided about Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about the charges applied in 2019 
 and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G were charged £75 for the use of their overdraft in 2019. They complained 
about this shortly afterwards. HSBC has refunded this charge and has paid £100 for the 
delay in looking at their complaint.  Given all of the circumstances of this I think this is reasonable. As the charge is refunded 
there is nothing more to repay. And the compensation for the moderate delay in looking at 
the complaint is fair. I dont think that HSBC needs to do anything further about this. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, it is my decision that this service cannot 
consider Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about the overdraft charges incurred in 2006 and 
2007, as they complained too late.
HSBC doesnt need to pay any further compensation about the charge applied in 
2019. Im not upholding this part of Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman