DRN-3344867
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund money that was sent to a fraudster. 
What happened
On 8 February 2022 I issued my provisional decision on this complaint explaining that I 
wasnt intending to uphold it. I gave both sides the opportunity to provide any further 
submissions before giving my final decision. That provisional decision forms part of my final 
decision and is copied below.
What happened
Mr Gs daughter, Miss G, was looking for a loan online to fund the wedding of another 
of his daughters. The few lenders which were prepared to lend to her would only lend 
smaller amounts at very high interest rates.
Miss G found a company online which looked more promising. She filled out some 
details and was contacted by someone claiming to represent them. The caller said they 
could offer a £35,000 loan to Miss G at a rate much lower than the other lenders shed 
come across.
Unfortunately for Miss G, the lender wasnt genuine and shed actually been 
contacted by a fraudster.
The fraudster was operating what is known as an advance fee fraud  which involves 
the fraudster asking for upfront payments on the promise of an eventual return to the 
victim  in this case that promised return was a £35,000 loan. Fraudsters will often 
keep requesting payments until their victim refuses to pay.
The first payment request was for £850 which was required, the fraudster claimed, 
because Miss G lacked a guarantor. Miss G tried to make the payment from her own 
account but the transaction was stopped by her bank. So, she asked her father, Mr G 
whether she could make the transactions using his account. He agreed and Miss G 
made the payment using Mr Gs online banking facility.
The fraudster sent Miss G a loan agreement. It contained a fairly long explanation of why 
a further payment was needed  in short that they tried to make the payment to Miss Gs 
account but it had bounced back due to her poor credit score. They said that therefore a 
further payment was needed because the payment had to be made that day and it was 
no longer a bank transfer but an electronic transfer, which would cost £900. Again, this 
was paid by Miss G. The payment requests kept coming  the next day £880 for 
government tax and then £3,320 to round up the amount of money they were going to 
transfer to an even number. They said that transferring an odd amount was difficult.
Next the fraudsters said that theyd transferred too much to Miss G - £50,000 instead 
of the now £40,000 that was due. Despite not actually having sent any money, the 
fraudsters demanded that Miss G return the £10,000 overpayment. Initially they 
were prepared to accept £5,000 instead, but then the further £5,000 was demanded. 
Miss G made both payments.
Finally, on 7 February 2020, the fraudsters said that theyd need a further payment of 
£3,000 because the previous payment had not been made the same day. Miss G made 
this payment too.
On 12 February 2020 HSBC were contacted by the firm which received the £3,000 
payment. They said they had concerns about it  so HSBC blocked Mr Gs online 
banking. Mr G spoke to HSBC twice on 13 February 2020. In those calls Mr G sounds 
confused about the payments  what they are for and who they have been paid to. In the 
second call he confirms that his daughter has been making payments on his behalf using 
his online banking details. After speaking to Mr G and his daughter, HSBC asked him to 
go into the branch to confirm the payments as genuine and have his account unblocked. 
Mr G visited the branch on 22 February 2020 and successfully removed the block on his 
account.
Miss G says she questioned the fraudsters each time they sent the money and some of 
the people around her were concerned about the payments she was making. The 
fraudsters also said that shed lose the money shed already paid if she didnt keep 
making the payments.
On 24 February 2020 Mr G visited the branch, he asked for a trace to be put on 
the last payment as the beneficiary had reported not having received it.
Eventually Miss Gs parents became concerned and suggested shed fallen victim to a 
scam. On 3 March Mr G reported the transactions as fraudulent.
HSBC responded to say that as Mr G had provided his online banking details to 
his daughter, they would not treat the matter as fraud and didnt attempt to 
recover Mr Gs funds.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They thought that the complaint 
should be considered under the CRM Code. They thought that Mr G had a 
reasonable basis for belief in making the payments as they thought the fraudsters 
would have appeared professional and the reasons given for the payments were 
plausible. She also thought that HSBC ought to have picked up on the transactions 
as being unusual and done more to intervene and stop them. So, the investigator 
was of the view that HSBC should refund the payments made from Mr Gs account.
HSBC disagreed, in summary it said:
-Given that Mr G had, at the time, told the bank that he neither knew about the 
payments or consented to them, it was not clear that the CRM even applied to 
this case.
- Mr G had certainly breached the terms and conditions of the account and HSBC 
shouldnt be held responsible for this.
 
- Even if the CRM Code did apply to this case, the reasons for the payments were 
not at all plausible and Mr G did not have a reasonable basis for belief.As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. What 
Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive first considered whether the CRM Code applies to this case. While it isnt disputed by 
either party that it was Miss G, not Mr G that made the payments, there is disagreement over 
Mr Gs involvement in, and knowledge of, the payments.
If the payments were made on his behalf, with his full knowledge, as is claimed by Miss G 
then I think the CRM Code is relevant here.
Under DS1(2)(e) a Customer is defined as A payer as defined in regulation 2(1) of the 
PSRs, that is, a person who holds a payment account and initiates, or consents to the 
initiation of, a payment order from that payment account;
The definition of a Customer appears to extend to a person who gives consent to a payment 
order, as well as a person who actually initiates that payment order.
But, if Mr G didnt consent to the initiation of each payment and only gave a more general 
permission for his daughter to use his account then I dont think the CRM Code applies to 
the transactions as he does not fall within the definition of a Customer.
That would also mean the transactions, for the purposes of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 at least, would be unauthorised  transactions which are excluded by the 
Code. In any case, including such transactions under the Code would also render significant 
parts of it nonsensical.
Having thought about this matter carefully, Im persuaded, on balance, that Mr G did know 
about and consent to at least some of the payments. And, as Ill go on to explain, I dont 
think whether Mr G knew about some or all of the payments actually changes his position.
I must take into account both Mr and Miss Gs testimony that he was aware of each 
payment. I also understand the purpose of the loan was to pay for the wedding of another of 
Mr Gs daughters  it appears to have been a family decision to take out the loan and not 
something that Miss G is likely to have done without the knowledge of her father.
That, in itself, doesnt demonstrate that he knew about each and every payment. And, I 
understand why HSBC think that he didnt. Miss G has told our service that she knew her 
dads online banking details prior to the scam. It follows that she could have made the 
transactions without his knowledge. She also tried to make the first payment from her own 
account and the loan agreement was in her own name. She appears to have transferred her 
own money from her account to her fathers. All of this might suggest it wasnt Miss Gs 
intention to involve her father in the details of the loan application.
Ive then considered the calls HSBC had with Mr G on 13 February 2020. Its unclear from 
those calls whether Mr G knows what the payments were for but doesnt want to disclose the 
full details or doesnt know those details.
I appreciate there is something of a language barrier between Mr G and the advisor but
 
some of his answers appear to be contradictory. On the one hand he says that he did send 
the payments and they are for his friend. At other times there is confusion between the 
adviser and Mr G over whether he is aware payments have come out of, rather than gone into, his account. Mr G certainly doesnt seem to know how the fraudsters account details 
were obtained.
He does, at times, allude to the real circumstances  saying that the recipient had claimed to 
have sent them money, but it wasnt visible in their account. He also says I sent the 
payment and they send money back. These comments are, perhaps understandably 
somewhat lost on the adviser who is trying to establish how the payment was made and 
where the account details were obtained from.
The second call is also difficult to follow. Mr G says money is being lent to his daughters 
friend to pay for wedding expenses and will be returned in a few days. Later in the call he 
suggests that he hadnt made the payments and didnt know about them. Still later he again 
alludes to the real circumstances suggesting several times that they were paying money only 
later to have it returned. He also mentions his own daughters wedding  seeming to 
contradict the earlier suggestion that it was a loan to pay for a friends wedding.
The conversations are, on the whole, hard to decipher. Miss G admits they were told to 
mislead the bank about the purpose of the payment to ensure that the funds went through as 
smoothly as possible. This explains the references to the payee being Miss Gs friend. But, 
as set out, Mr G also makes references to paying money and receiving it back, to lending 
money for just a few days and to paying for wedding expenses. So, its apparent that Mr G 
does understand the broader context for at least some of these payments.
However, I also need to take into account the fact that these conversations took place 
several days after the payments were made. Its perhaps unsurprising that Mr G knew about 
the payments and their purpose by this point. Miss G admits that friends and family were 
already warning her about the possibility that this was a scam. She also acknowledges 
borrowing money from friends and family in order to meet the fraudsters demands.
Overall, it seems likely that Mr G did have some understanding of what Miss G was doing 
and she was acting with his permission. Its not clear whether Mr G knew the details of why 
the payments were being made, but in the calls he does show understanding of the overall 
arrangement. Its possible that Mr G only had knowledge of the later payments given that the 
need to acquire more money and the fraudsters ever-growing demands appear to have 
increasingly involved the whole family. However, as already mentioned, I dont think this 
affects Mr Gs position  it is the same if the CRM Code is applied or not because I dont 
think he is entitled to reimbursement under its provisions. Ill explain why.
Mr Gs position under the CRM Code
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, if a firm chooses not to reimburse its customer, it 
must demonstrate that it met its standards and one of the exceptions to reimbursement 
applies in the particular circumstances of the case.
If a firm cannot demonstrate that one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement apply, then 
its customer must be reimbursed in full. If it can do so then it must also demonstrate that it 
met its standards, otherwise it may be liable to refund its customer 50% of their loss.
One of the standards the firm must meet - SF1(2) says:
Where Firms identify APP scam risks in a Payment Journey, they should take reasonable 
steps to provide their Customers with Effective Warnings
 
As Ive already set out, Customer is a defined term under the Code. It does not include Miss 
G who does not fit that definition. I dont think the above can be sensibly read so as to put an 
obligation on HSBC to provide non-customers with warnings.
And neither would it produce a fair outcome  as no matter how effective their warning might 
be, Mr G would not have been exposed to it if he did not make the payments. Consequently, 
it would make it more difficult for a business to demonstrate that it had met its standards 
where a customer was in breach of their terms and conditions by allowing a third party to 
make payments on their behalf. That, I think, would not produce a fair outcome.
So, Im persuaded that HSBC had no obligation to provide a warning here and therefore, 
having carefully considered the other standards  which I dont think are relevant here, I 
think it met its standards as a firm.
Im also persuaded that HSBC can rely on one of the exceptions to reimbursement in the 
code, namely that the payments were made without Mr G having a reasonable belief that the 
payee was legitimate.
As set out, its not clear how much knowledge Mr G had about the payments  whether, for 
example, he relied chiefly on what his daughter told him about the recipient. But I dont think 
this changes Mr Gs position. If Mr G simply relied on what his daughter told him  without 
understanding the full context of the payments then I cant say that he had a reasonable 
basis for believing the payments to be legitimate. Such a belief can only be reasonable if the 
holder has enough information to make an informed decision about the payment.
If he did have all of the same information that his daughter had, and agreed to the payments 
on that basis, then I dont think his belief was reasonable either. Ill explain why in more 
detail. In doing so, Ive referred mainly to Miss G, on the assumption that Mr G had the same 
knowledge.
Miss G acknowledges that she searched online for loans. She tried to obtain lending using 
price comparison websites. However, the lenders she found were only prepared to lend 
much smaller amounts  between £5,000 and £8,000 and only at interest rates above 20%.
The fraudsters, on the other hand, offered her £35,000 at a far lower interest rate  just 
7.5%. I think Miss G ought to have questioned why the fraudsters were prepared to offer 
such a generous loan and Ive seen no evidence to suggest they did question this. Im afraid, 
I think this offer was so much better than the ones theyd seen online that they ought to have 
recognised it was too good to be true.
I understand that fraudsters will prey on people who might have trouble obtaining credit (or 
significant amounts of credit) elsewhere. But, I think the fact Miss G couldnt obtain credit 
from elsewhere is likely to have been a factor in her decision making when going ahead with 
the loan and probably caused her to overlook some of the more concerning aspects of the 
interaction.
And then the requests for money began. If Miss G didnt have concerns before this point, 
she really ought to have done when asked for money to complete the loan.
It strikes me that there was no urgent reason for Miss G to go ahead with the loan. She, and 
Mr G, had time to stop and think about what they were being asked to do. There were other 
peculiarities too. It might seem reasonable that a guarantor charge would be refundable if 
one thought of it as a kind of insurance against default. But I struggle to see why 
government tax would be refundable or why there would be a charge for the loan to be 
received on the same day.
 Its fair to say that the reasons given for the payments become more and more outlandish. 
Its hard to see why Miss G would think that an odd figure couldnt be sent using a bank 
transfer. After all, shed sent an odd figure to the fraudsters. And, the suggestion that shed 
need to repay an overpayment before there was any evidence that a payment to her had 
actually been made is difficult to understand.
But thats not to suggest Miss G didnt think this too  her own testimony said they 
questioned the fraudsters at every stage. And, it seems, a big part of the reason she 
continued to go ahead was because she was told shed lose all the payments shed already 
made if she stopped. While its understandable she wouldnt want this to happen  I dont 
think this suggests a reasonable belief that the company was genuine but rather hope that it 
was, despite the strong evidence to the contrary. In essence, the further payments appear to 
have been a gamble.
While the reasons for the payments became more implausible as time went on, I dont think 
Mr G had a reasonable basis for believing the first payment to be legitimate, for the reasons 
Ive explained. So, even if Mr G knew the full details of each and every payment that was 
made, I dont think he had a reasonable basis for belief in making any of them.
Should HSBC have done more to protect Mr G from financial harm
As Ive explained, I dont think the circumstances of this case are covered by the CRM Code. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether HSBC should have done anything else to protect Mr G 
from financial harm.
Its first necessary to state that if Miss G made some or all of the payments without Mr Gs 
knowledge and permission, then under the PSR 2017, the payments would be treated as 
unauthorised.
The starting position in the PSR 2017 is that the payment service provider, rather than the 
customer will be responsible for any losses caused by unauthorised payments. However, if 
the customer has failed with gross negligence or intent to keep their account details secure 
then it is the customer that will normally bear the loss. As Mr G willingly shared his security 
details with Miss G, then Im satisfied hes failed with intent to adhere to the terms of his 
account and the bank can, under the PSR 2017 at least, hold him responsible for the loss. 
Also, in general law, Miss G would likely be treated as Mr Gs agent, or apparent agent, and, 
as such, the transactions would be considered authorised. But in either case, Mr G is 
considered responsible for the loss in the first instance.
However, I am also mindful that when these payments were made, HSBC should fairly and 
reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). I dont think the 
fact that the payments were made in breach of the terms and conditions negates this 
responsibility.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr G but I dont think its reasonable, in accordance with 
HSBCs obligations, to expect them to have questioned the payments that were made. The 
payments, though fairly substantial were not particularly remarkable for Mr Gs account.
There were a number of other payments of equal or greater value in the previous six 
months. In fact, there were two payments of twice the value of the largest fraudulent 
payment just a few weeks before the disputed transactions. While I accept the disputed 
payments were to new payees, given how the account was normally used, I dont think 
HSBC should have intervened or asked further questions about the payments. Ive also
 considered whether HSBC ought to refund the £3,000 payment which was deemed 
suspicious by the firm that received it  prompting it to contact HSBC with its concerns. Had 
HSBC informed the receiving firm that the payment was as a result of fraud then its very 
likely it would have been returned. However, following the calls on 12 February 2020 and 
visits to the branch by Mr G on 22 February 2020 (to have his internet banking unblocked) 
and 24 February 2020 (to ask for the payment which had been stopped to be traced), HSBC 
informed the receiving bank they didnt have any concerns about the payment, and it was 
released to the fraudster. So, Ive thought about whether, considering both the calls and the 
notes of the branch visits, HSBC ought to have had concerns and asked further questions 
and, had they done so, whether its likely the scam would have been revealed.
As Ive already set out, there were aspects of the calls which ought to have given HSBC 
cause for concern  Mr G did at times allude to the true circumstances and does give some 
contradictory responses about the purpose of the payments. However, he never mentions 
that he, or his daughter, has applied for a loan and that the payments are for fees. When 
challenged both Mr G and his daughter (who joins him on the call) state the payments are for 
a friend who is getting married. So, while I understand they were acting on the fraudsters 
instructions, both Mr G and his daughter misled the bank about the true purpose of the 
payment, which made it much more difficult for the bank to protect them.
The notes of his first visit to the branch simply say that he allowed his daughter to carry out 
the transactions using his internet banking. It doesnt appear the purpose of the payment 
was discussed further. On the second visit, the purpose of the payment is recorded as 
lending money to a friend. Its not clear the extent to which HSBCs concerns about the 
payments were discussed in branch and, given that HSBC had already been advised that 
the payment might be as a result of fraud and had received some quite confusing responses 
from Mr G, I think they should have done more than their records suggest they did.
However, it appears Mr G did give the same explanation for the payments as he gave on the 
phone (and one that broadly matched the claim made by the recipient). So, even if HSBC 
had questioned him further in the branch (or reviewed the calls and noticed the 
discrepancies in his account of events), I think it could have reasonably attributed any 
confusion to Mr Gs own lack of knowledge about the purpose of the payments (given that he 
had not made them himself), rather than a deliberate attempt to conceal their true purpose.
So, I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably in informing the receiving firm that it had no 
concerns about the £3,000 payment and I wont be holding it responsible for this loss either.
Finally, Im satisfied that no action by HSBC could have led to the recovery of the other 
payments. Information received from the banks which received those payments show they 
were all withdrawn shortly after receipt and well before Mr G reported the fraud.
Overall, I know this will be very disappointing for Mr G, but I dont think HSBC have acted 
unfairly by refusing to refund him under the terms of the CRM Code. Neither do I think there 
was enough of an indication that Mr G was at risk of financial harm that HSBC ought to have 
intervened and questioned the payments that were made.
My provisional decision
Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
 
Neither Mr G nor HSBC responded to my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side responded to my provisional decision, my final decision is unchanged 
from the findings Ive set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman