DRN-3741384
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains about delays by HSBC UK Bank Plc with closing an 
account and transferring the funds. 
R is in voluntary liquidation. The complaint was brought to us by Rs ex-director and the 
liquidator. Ill refer to them as Rs representatives. 
What happened
R was to be liquidated via a members voluntary liquidation. It had funds of about £300,000 in 
an account with HSBC. The liquidator wrote to HSBC in April 2021 instructing it to close the 
account and transfer the funds. Rs representatives say due to errors by HSBC the payment 
wasnt processed for 20 weeks. HSBC accepts it caused delays. Rs representatives say 
HSBC should pay interest at 8% for this period, plus compensation for the inconvenience 
and loss of the use of the money.
Our investigator said HSBC should pay compensation of £250 to R for the inconvenience 
caused (which HSBC agreed to do). Our investigator said once the funds were transferred, 
they were to be distributed as part of the liquidation process. So the delay didnt cause any 
loss to R. 
Rs representatives didnt agree. The liquidator said while £250 was fine for a nominal 
compensation amount, R should also receive an additional sum for statutory interest. The 
liquidator referred to guidance on our website which says 8% interest is appropriate for being 
deprived of money. He said R was deprived of the money for a considerable period and this 
loss of opportunity to invest or use the money should lead to an award of interest.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that HSBC made errors and this delayed Rs funds being transferred. So 
I have to decide what compensation, if any, is fair and reasonable. 
Rs representatives ask that HSBC pays interest at the statutory rate for the period that R 
was unable to use the funds due to errors by HSBC. 
R is a limited company and a separate legal entity. R is the account holder and the 
complainant here. I cant usually award compensation to third parties or for third parties 
losses or upset.
I could require HSBC to pay compensation to R for financial loss, but it would only be fair to 
do so if theres evidence that R suffered a financial loss. Rs representatives havent 
provided evidence of financial loss. They say R should be compensated for the loss of 
opportunity from not having the money. I dont think thats fair and reasonable.
R is in liquidation. R didnt intend to invest its funds in a business, or transfer them to an 
interest bearing account. It intended to distribute the funds to third parties as part of the 
liquidation. So R didnt suffer a loss of opportunity from being deprived of the money. I 
havent been provided with evidence that it made any financial difference to R that these 
funds were transferred some weeks later than planned.
Companies rely on their directors and officers to manage their business. I can ask HSBC to 
pay compensation to R for inconvenience caused to its directors and officers. The liquidator 
sent written instructions to HSBC in April 2021 and the account was closed and the balance 
transferred in September 2021. Rs representatives had to contact HSBC during this time to 
move the matter along. HSBC asked them to provide a document it already had. In the 
circumstances, I think compensation of £250 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay £250 to R, as it 
agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman