DRN-1419084
The complaint
Ms E has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms E took out the PPI in 1998 at the same time as arranging the mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms E disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Es complaint and Ill explain why.
Although Ms E thought she had taken the PPI out by post, Lloyds has provided evidence 
that the PPI was taken out during a meeting in branch.
Ms E says that the PPI was included in her mortgage repayments without her consent. 
However Ive seen a copy of the PPI Proposal Form, which was separate from the rest of the 
mortgage application documentation. This shows that Ms E requested the policy and she 
signed the form on 5 June 1998. There was also a separate direct debit form for the PPI  as 
the policy premium was made as a separate payment from the mortgage repayment.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Ms Es recollection of events 
has faded. Based on the available evidence, it seems to me that Ms E probably decided to 
buy the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Lloyds advised Ms E to take out the policy. Therefore, in recommending it to her, it needed 
to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of Ms Es circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable for her.
Ms Es employer would have given her three months full pay, followed by three months half 
pay, if she was off work sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay 
and potentially for longer than she would have received full pay for. And Ms E didnt have 
any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I consider that she had a need for the 
policy and could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover, but Ms E wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think she had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused her to change her mind. So she isnt any worse 
off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so theres nothing that Lloyds needs 
to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Ms Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman