DRN-3205888
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way in which Santander Consumer (UK) Plc dealt with a 
conditional sale agreement after Mr H found himself unable to work.
What happened
In March 2013 Mr H entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander for the 
purchase of a new car. Under the agreement, Mr H was to make 48 monthly payments of a 
little over £630 and a final payment of just over £8,300. 
In July 2014 Mr H suffered an accident at work, which meant that he lost his job. He told 
Santander, and Santander agreed to accept reduced payments under the conditional sale 
agreement. Santander agreed to accept monthly payments of £300. That arrangement 
continued until February 2017. 
In or about March 2017 Santander discussed the position with Mr H and suggested that he 
return the car and pay the outstanding balance of the credit agreement. After allowing for the 
value of the car, the amount due to end the agreement was a little over £11,300. Mr H did 
not pay the full amount due, and Santander passed the matter to debt collectors and then to 
solicitors.
Santander started county court proceedings and obtained judgment. To secure that 
judgment, Santanders solicitors obtained a charging order over Mr Hs home. This meant 
that his home could not realistically be sold unless the judgment was satisfied. In the 
meantime, Mr H made modest monthly payments towards the judgment debt. 
Mr H sold his property in March 2021. The debt owed to Santander was paid from the 
proceeds of sale. Santander would not accept a reduction in the amount due. Mr H thought 
he had been treated unfairly and referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator said that she was unable to consider anything that happened in connection 
with the judgment and the charging order. They were matters which had been dealt with by 
the court. She did however express the view that Santanders advice to end the agreement 
and return the car was reasonable in the circumstances. She did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Mr H asked that an ombudsman review the case.    
      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events giving rise to this complaint were triggered by an unfortunate accident and injury 
suffered by Mr H many years ago. I have no reason to think that, but for that accident, he 
would not have lost of his job and would have been able to finish paying for the car as he 
anticipated. He has my sympathy. I do not believe I can properly say that he has been 
treated unfairly, however. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service can exercise its discretion not to consider a complaint in 
certain circumstances. Those circumstances include where the subject matter of a complaint 
has been the subject of court proceedings and there has been a decision on the merits. The 
investigator in this case took the view that she could not consider the events around the 
judgment, including the enforcement action taken by Santander, but that she could consider 
the advice to end the finance agreement. She thought that advice was reasonable. 
I do not believe that I am prevented by our rules from considering issues that the court has 
already considered. In my view, however, it would be fair or appropriate for me to reach a 
conclusion which is or might be seen as being inconsistent with the court judgment or the 
order giving Santander a charge over Mr Hs property. To do so would, in effect, amount to 
allowing an appeal against the courts decisions. That is not the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
I think that the advice to end the finance agreement is closely linked to the court action. That 
is, I think it would have been open to Mr H to raise his concerns about that advice in the 
court proceedings. So, even I thought the advice was inappropriate, I might still take the view 
that making an award in recognition of that would be inconsistent with the courts findings. I 
do however agree with the investigator that Santanders advice was not unreasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to 
do anything more to resolve Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman