DRN-3759396
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a mortgage he has with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
(BoS). He is unhappy that, during a period of financial difficulties between 2010 and 2017, 
and after their resolution, BoS didnt mention to him that there might be beneficial interest 
rate products available to him. It was not until a colleague suggested in 2021 he might be 
paying more than he needed to, and referred him to a mortgage broker, that a new interest 
rate product was attached to the mortgage. Mr M believes that BoS failed in its duty of care 
to him in not informing him of the existence of products with interest rates lower than he was 
paying. 
What happened
Mr M took out an interest-only mortgage with BoS in 2008 for £825,000 over a term of 25 
years. Attached to the mortgage was a fixed interest rate product, which expired at the end 
of September 2010. The mortgage offer confirmed that when the product ended, the 
mortgage would revert to a variable rate of interest, which was higher than the product rate. 
The mortgage fell into arrears in 2009 and remained so until 2017. During this time Mr M 
spoke to BoS on a regular basis to discuss the arrears and the approach for dealing with 
them.
Shortly before the interest rate product ended in 2010, BoS wrote to Mr M to highlight this 
was about to happen. It set out what would happen when the rate ended  that the mortgage 
would move onto its standard variable rate (SVR) and the options that might be available to 
him. Mr M said in his interactions with BoS that he hadnt done anything about looking at a 
new rate because he didnt think he would be given one, as the mortgage was in arrears.
Mr M spoke to BoS in August 2010 regarding his payment to the mortgage in September 
2010. During the conversation Mr M commented that in October the payments would be 
going down as he was going onto the default interest rate on the mortgage. He spoke to BoS 
twice more in August 2010 and once in September 2010, in which he confirmed that his fixed 
rate was ending in October 2010 and the monthly payment was going to drop, which meant 
that he would have no difficulty in paying it. 
The mortgage reverted to standard variable rate (SVR) at the end of October 2010.
BoS sent Mr M an annual mortgage statement each November detailing the interest rate 
payable (including whether it was fixed or variable), the mortgage balances and the 
transactions on the account. From 2018 the statements include an overview of fixed and 
variable interest rates. The covering letter also highlighted that Mr Ms mortgage was 
partially on a variable rate of interest, which meant that his payments could go up or down as 
interest rates changed. It went on to say that staying on a variable rate might suit Mr Ms 
needs and circumstances, but it recommended that he review his mortgage options on a 
regular basis.
Mr M spoke to a mortgage broker in the spring of 2021 and a new interest rate product was 
attached to the mortgage. The new product reduced the contractual monthly payments 
significantly. He complained to BoS that he hadnt been offered a new product sooner, as it 
would have saved him a considerable amount of money.
BoS responded to the complaint in its letter of 31 August 2021. It didnt uphold the complaint. 
It initially confirmed that Mr M wasnt able to access a new product while his mortgage was 
in arrears and any conversations during that period would have been about bringing the 
account back up to date. It explained that it was not obliged to inform Mr M about products 
that might be available in the future unless he had made a specific enquiry. However, it set 
out the information it would have provided him with about the interest rate his mortgage was 
on and other products, including an expiry letter for the rate attached to the mortgage in 
2008 and the annual mortgage statements.
Mr M didnt accept BoS response and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. He explained to us that he felt the amount a new rate had reduced his monthly 
payment by meant that BoS had failed in its duty of care by not offering this earlier. He said 
he didnt think it was fair that BoS included warnings that payments could go up if rates 
changed, but didnt advise that cheaper rates might be available.
One of our investigators looked into whether we could consider Mr Ms complaint. He 
concluded that we could only consider whether BoS should have offered Mr M new interest 
rate products in the six years before the complaint was raised, so between August 2015 and 
August 2021. 
Mr M didnt accept that we could only consider his complaint from August 2015, in that he 
disagreed he should have known he had cause for complaint more than three years before 
he complained. As such, the complaint was referred to me to consider our jurisdiction. I 
issued a decision on 2 September 2022 in which I confirmed that we were only able to 
consider Mr Ms complaint about not having been offered a new interest rate product from 
August 2015. 
Our investigator then went on to consider the merits of the complaint for the relevant time 
period. He didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators opinion. He said that he was a vulnerable customer and 
BoS had a duty of care to assist him. He asked that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. The investigator considered Mr Ms comments, but they didnt change his 
conclusion. He explained that given the situation with the mortgage account after 
August 2015, he was not persuaded that Mr Ms vulnerability would reasonably have meant 
that BoS should have treated him differently. In addition, he noted that the evidence didnt 
indicate that Mr M had made BoS aware of his health issues. 
What Ive decided  and why
We review our jurisdiction at every stage of our process and so I have reviewed it again. I 
remain satisfied that my conclusions set out in my decision of 2 September 2022 are correct. 
This decision will only, therefore, consider Mr Ms concerns about not having been offered 
an interest rate product, and remaining on SVR, since August 2015.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator sets out what a lender is required to do when it is administering a mortgage. 
Proactively contacting borrowers about interest rate products isnt one of those things and 
so, historically, it wasnt common practice for that to be done. I cant find BoS acted 
inappropriately in not doing so.That said, from 2018 BoS did include information about interest rate products with Mr Ms 
annual statements. I consider this information made it clear that there might have been 
options available to him, and what he needed to do to explore those options. As a lender 
isnt in a position to provide unsolicited advice, this is all that I would expect BoS to do  
invite Mr M to ask for information or advice. It was then for him to act and contact BoS to ask 
about taking out a new interest rate product if he wanted one.
I note that Mr M has said that he thinks BoS should have done more, given that he would be 
considered vulnerable. As our investigator explained, Mr Ms financial difficulties wouldnt 
have made BoS conclude he was vulnerable, and it doesnt appear that he made it aware of 
his health situation. If a lender is unaware of a situation, it cant be found at fault for not 
having factored it into how it treated a customer. 
Overall, I cant find that BoS acted inappropriately or treated Mr M unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
8 December 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman