DRN-3710607
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as D has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly declined 
its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr D, a director of D, has complained on Ds behalf through a representative. For ease of 
reading, Ill refer to D throughout. 
What happened
D held business interruption insurance with Covea. D claimed on its policy after its business 
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Covea turned down Ds claim as they didnt think the policy provided cover for the 
circumstances of its claim. 
Unhappy with Coveas response, D brought its complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she thought 
Coveas decision was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
D asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ds business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Covea have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ds claim.
Damage
The core business interruption cover provided by the policy covers interruption to the 
business as a result of damage to property used by D at its business premises or damage to 
records of outstanding debit balances. The policy defines damage as Loss destruction or 
damage unless otherwise excluded.
For this section to provide cover, the interruption to Ds business would need to have been 
as a result of damage to property used by D at its business premises or to records of 
outstanding debit balances. I havent seen anything to indicate this was the case, so Im 
satisfied its fair and reasonable for Covea to find that this doesnt cover Ds claim. 
Compulsory closure
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. The relevant part of this 
extension covers business interruption or interference: 
in consequence of compulsory closure by a public body authorised to prevent or 
restrict access to the Premises arising from:
(a)discovery of a Notifiable Human Infectious or Contagious Disease at the 
Premises
The policy defines a notifiable human infectious or contagious disease as being one of 
a list of specified diseases. The list of diseases doesnt include Covid-19 and says that 
no other disease will be added without Coveas written consent. 
Given Covid-19 might not have been in existence at the time the policy was drafted, I 
wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. But there were similar policies on the 
market that provided cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, for example policies which 
covered all notifiable diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ds 
policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there 
is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new 
diseases which might emerge, and it says that no other diseases will be added without 
Coveas written consent. So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any 
new diseases and therefore I think it was fair and reasonable for Covea to find that this 
extension doesnt provide cover for Ds claim.
Prevention of access
This extension covers business interruption or interference as a result of damage to property 
within 1 kilometre of the business premises which prevents or hinders the use of or prevents 
access to Ds premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that the interruption to Ds 
business was as a result of damage to property within 1 kilometre of its premises. Therefore, 
I dont think this extension provides cover for Ds claim. 
I recognise this isnt the outcome D was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay Ds claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman