DRN-3741159
The complaint
Mr R complains about a marker Kensington Mortgage Company Limited recorded against 
his name on a fraud prevention database. He wants the marker removed because its having 
a significant impact on him.
What happened
Mr R applied for a mortgage with Kensington. Kensington declined his application and 
recorded an entry about him with Cifas, a fraud prevention database. It did so on the basis 
that Mr R had falsified documents to try to get a mortgage.
Mr R asked Kensington to remove the marker. He said he had altered his savings account 
statements, thinking that doing so would result in his mortgage application progressing more 
quickly. He had since realised that this was the wrong thing to have done and he was sorry, 
but said that the deposit for the property he wanted to buy was legitimate and he could prove 
it. 
Kensington said Mr R had altered his account statements and it had done nothing wrong in 
recording the marker. It wouldnt remove the marker.
Mr R got in touch with the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. He found that it was reasonable for Kensington to 
have recorded the marker, and there were no grounds on which he could fairly ask it to 
remove the marker now.
Mr R didnt accept that and asked for a review. He said he understands he made a stupid 
mistake, but the marker is having a huge impact on his life and he cant get a bank account 
or a mortgage because of it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders should only record markers on fraud prevention databases where they have good 
grounds to do so. The various databases, including Cifas, set out what they expect from their 
members in order for a marker to be recorded.
Here, theres no dispute that Mr R falsified documents in order to try to get a mortgage. He 
therefore acted fraudulently. In these circumstances, Im satisfied that Kensington was 
entitled to record a marker about Mr R with Cifas for fraud.
I note that Mr R has since come to realise the seriousness of what he did and wishes he 
hadnt falsified the documents. He says he has had bank accounts closed and he cant now 
get a mortgage.
The existence of the marker doesnt necessarily mean that Mr R wont be able to open other 
accounts. Thats up to the financial businesses he applies to; they will make their own risk 
assessments and decide whether or not to accept Mr R as a customer and, if they do, on 
what terms. Mr R may wish to consider explaining what he did to financial services providers 
when he makes future applications so that they can take proper account of his position.
However, I dont consider that the difficulties Mr R says hes currently facing are grounds on 
which I can fairly direct Kensington to remove the marker which I have found it was entitled 
to record. So I dont require it to take any action to settle this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman