DRN-2726232
The complaint
Mr Y has complained that HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) unfairly declined a claim for storm 
damage under his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Y found some damage to a wooden fascia on his home. He contacted HDI to make an 
insurance claim, but was unable to make contact by phone. So, Mr Y logged the claim as 
accidental damage via an online form.
HDI declined the claim for accidental damage, as Mr Y didnt have this cover in place. Mr Y 
said to HDI that he thought the damage was caused by a storm a few months earlier but that 
he had only recently seen the damage. So, HDI sent a surveyor to assess the damage. HDI 
then declined the claim because it said the damage was due to rot, which wasnt covered by 
the policy.
When Mr Y complained, HDI maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mr Y 
complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt 
evidence to show the damage was storm related and that it was reasonable for HDI to rely 
on its surveyors assessment that the damage was due to rot.
As Mr Y did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the first question about whether there were storm conditions around the time 
the damage was said to have happened.  Mr Y said that he didnt know when the damage 
happened, but thought it might have happened during a storm a few months before he found 
the damage and then been made worse by storms in the months that followed. He said this 
might have led to the rot the surveyor found.
Although it isnt clear when the damage happened, Ive looked at the dates Mr Y suggested 
and can see there were storm conditions.
So, Ive thought about the second question. The damage is to a wooden fascia. I think its 
reasonable to rely on the surveyors assessment of the damage, which was that it was 
caused by rot, and I think the photos support the surveyors findings. I dont think a storm 
would typically result in this damage as part of a one-off event. Mr Y also hasnt provided 
any expert evidence to show the damage was the result of a storm. So, I think the answer to 
this question is no.
However, Im aware that Mr Y has raised some concerns about how the survey was carried 
out and also provided an explanation for how he thought the rot might have happened. So, 
Ive also thought about this.
Mr Y said he didnt think HDIs surveyor carried out a thorough survey and that he only 
inspected the damage from ground level. Looking at the surveyors findings, I can see that 
the surveyor took a number of photos, including close up images of the damage. So, I think 
the surveyor carried out an inspection of the specific damage and provided evidence to 
support the findings that he reached. As a result, I think it was reasonable for HDI to rely on 
the surveyors findings.
Mr Y said he thought the damage was caused by a storm because he hadnt seen any 
damage the last time he looked at that part of his home, which was several months before. 
He also said there had been a number of storms over the period before he found the 
damage. So, he thought the initial damage could have been caused by a storm and that the 
rot only started after that storm and was made worse by the other storms. However, the 
policy covers sudden, and therefore one-off events, not the build-up of a problem over time. 
So, I dont think this explanation would mean that the damage was covered.
Im also aware Mr Y has said he thinks its unfair, particularly in the circumstances of this 
claim, that he had to show what he thinks happened was more likely to be the cause. 
However, its a principle of insurance that its for the policyholder to show they have a valid 
claim in order for it to be accepted. I dont think Mr Y has shown that. Sometimes, as part of 
that process an insurer will send a surveyor in order to assess the claim. HDI did that and 
the surveyor assessed that the damage was the result of rot. So, I think it was reasonable for 
HDI to decline the claim and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman