DRN-1586503
The complaint
Your Mr M is not happy that QIC Europe Ltd declined his contents insurance claim and 
cancelled his policy
What happened
Mr M held contents insurance with QIC since May 2016 when he moved into his new rental 
property with his son. In January 2017 Mr R, a paying tenant, moved into the property. Mr R 
is a friend of Mr Ms son.
The policy was renewed in 2017 and again in 2018. 
In 2018 there was a fire at the property which caused extensive damage and so Mr M made 
a claim against his contents insurance policy. 
During the course of QICs validation of the claim QIC said that there were some 
discrepancies in the information provided by Mr M. 
QIC found that Mr M was no longer listed on the tenancy agreement despite saying that the 
address was his main residence on his policy renewal in May 2017 and May 2018. In the 
policy renewal documents Mr M confirmed that none of the occupants living at the address 
had been served with any County Court Judgments in the last five years. It transpired that 
one of the occupants, Mr R, had been served with a CCJ. And that the people living in the 
property were himself and his family when Mr R was also living there and he wasnt family. 
Because of their concerns QIC appointed a claims inspector to review the claim. After taking 
further statements and reviewing all of the information it had received in relation to the claim 
QIC declined the claim on the basis of misrepresentation (giving incorrect or misleading 
information) and fraud as set out in its terms and conditions. It also avoided the policy from 
the date of the first renewal and refunded the premiums paid. It did this through a firm of 
solicitors it had appointed as its representatives. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He felt that his claim had been unfairly declined and that he 
had provided the insurer with the evidence it had requested. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things for him. The 
investigator agreed that there had been a misrepresentation in that Mr M had failed to 
disclose Mr Rs CCJ. The investigator felt that QIC had acted fairly and in line with its terms 
and conditions when making its decision to void the policy from the date of the first renewal 
and declining the claim. Mr M remained dissatisfied and so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have provided a large amount of documentation and it is not my intention to go 
through each document or each point raised. I have looked at the main crux of the complaint 
and detailed my findings below. 
Having considered all the evidence Im not upholding the complaint. I appreciate Mr M has 
been through a difficult time and I know this isnt the answer he wanted. So I will explain my 
decision below. 
In respect of buying insurance the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA) applies. Under this act it is the duty of the consumer to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation to the insurer 
When a consumer buys an insurance policy they will be asked to provide certain information. 
In simple terms the insurer is trying to assess risk. It can be a misrepresentation if an answer 
given is inaccurate or incomplete. But the insurer will only be entitled to take action if its a 
qualifying misrepresentation in accordance with CIDRA. Not all misrepresentation comes 
from deliberate dishonesty, it can also be careless or thoughtless. The remedies available to 
the insurer for a qualifying misrepresentation include voiding the policy. 
Under the terms of CIDRA there are two main factors I need to consider when deciding 
whether theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. These are how clear and specific the 
insurers questions were and whether the consumer took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
In May 2016 Mr M took out contents insurance policy. In doing so he answered a series of 
questions. And QIC used his answers to decide whether to accept or deny his application for 
insurance. The main areas of concern for QIC appear to be around the following three 
questions;
who is the property occupied by? 
is it your main residence?
have any of the occupants been served with a CCJ. 
In the initial application in 2016 Mr M said that that the property was occupied by you and 
family and that the address was Mr Ms main residence. Mr M confirmed that none of the 
occupants had been served with a CCJ. I think that the insurers questions are clear and 
specific in what it is asking here and Mr M answered to say that the property was occupied 
by him and his son, that it is Mr Ms main residence, and that none of the occupants have 
been served with a CCJ. 
In 2017 and 2018 Mr M was sent his renewal documents. In the policy wording it says you 
must check this information carefully and let us know immediately if any of the information 
you have given us is incorrectif we find that it is not correct we may reject your claim or 
only pay you part of it. Or we may cancel your insurance policy or declare it to be void and 
so treat it as though it never existed 
In January 2017 Mr R moved into the property. The policy renewal occurred in May 2017 
however Mr M answered the questions in the same way as the year before; i.e. just him and 
his son living at the property and no one at the property having a CCJ. Mr M had the option 
of telling the insurer that him, his family, and a paying tenant were living at the property and 
that Mr Rs CCJ dated back to May 2016. It could well have been the case that Mr M was not 
aware of the CCJ or didnt think to check with Mr R but the information provided in May 2017 at the first renewal was incorrect. This was then repeated in May 2018 two months before 
the fire.  I have not seen any evidence that Mr M contacted QIC to advise it that someone 
else had moved into the property who wasnt family, or that any of the other details may be 
incorrect. On that basis I think QIC were entitled to think that the circumstances had not 
changed. 
After the fire in July 2018 the other person living at the property, Mr R, contacted QIC to ask 
some questions about whether it would secure the building. During the call Mr R said that Mr 
M had moved out but left the policy in his name since the contents in the property belonged 
to him. A few days after the fire QIC spoke to Mr M who said that Mr R was living at the 
property on an ad hoc basis because Mr M was in the process of moving out. In a different 
conversation on the same day QIC asked Mr M whether his son and his flatmate Mr R lived 
at the property. And Mr M confirmed that they did. QIC asked Mr M when he moved out. Mr 
M said he moved out recently about eight months ago 
QIC investigated further and their investigator met with Mr M the following month to get 
some clarification on some of the issues. During that interview Mr M said that he was in the 
process of moving out of the property to move in with his partner but would still stay there 
one or two times a week. He also said that Mr R would stay there on occasion. Mr M said 
that the tenancy went over to his son and Mr R. I think it was reasonable for QIC to be 
concerned about the conflicting information that it had been provided. 
I have seen a tenancy agreement from January 2017 in which Mr Ms son and Mr R are on 
the agreement. Mr M is not on the agreement but is instead named as a guarantor with his 
address listed as his partners address. Mr M says that the tenancy agreement from 2017 
runs alongside the original 2016 agreement and that he never gave notice on his tenancy. I 
think if that were the case then Mr M would not be named as a guarantor on his sons 
tenancy agreement with Mr R. 
QIC found that Mr M had his credit card, car insurance, and bank account registered at his 
partners address from 2017. Mr M has explained that this is because he was due to move in 
with his partner in 2017 but this didnt happen for personal reasons. 
QIC also found that Mr R had been served with a CCJ contrary to what it had been told at 
renewal.
So I can see why QIC had concerns about this claim. The misrepresentation and fraud 
section of the policy terms and conditions say that if the policyholder provides information 
as part of your application that is not true and complete to the best of your knowledge and 
belief this insurance will not be valid 
Having established that a careless misrepresentation has been made QIC must then show 
that it wouldnt have accepted the risk. I have looked at the insurers underwriting guide and 
its clear that had the misrepresentation not occurred the insurance policy would not have 
been offered to Mr M. 
The underwriter has provided me with their underwriting criteria that shows that had Mr M 
declared that the property was not his main residence and that it was not occupied by him, 
but by his son and a lodger it would not have quoted for the policy. The underwriting guide 
confirms that the property must be occupied by the policyholder and/or their family only; Mr 
R was a tenant of the property and not a member of Mr Ms family. 
The underwriting criteria also shows that had Mr M declared that he was not living at the 
property and that he was not named on the tenancy agreement then it would not have 
offered Mr M the insurance policy. This is because part of their criteria for the policy is for the policyholder to be living at the address.  There is doubt around whether or not the address 
was Mr Ms main residence at the time of the fire.
Mr M was asked whether anyone living at the property had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) 
Mr M did not tell the insurer that Mr R had a CCJ. The underwriter has confirmed that if Mr M 
had declared the CCJ it would not have offered the insurance as it is unable to offer a 
quotation where an occupant of the property has a CCJ. I agree that there has been a 
misrepresentation in respect of the CCJ and so the underwriter was entitled to avoid the 
policy under CIDRA.  
I think QIC acted in accordance with the terms of its cover in voiding the policy. I also think it 
was fair for QIC to reach the view that Mr M acted recklessly or deliberately in the 
completion of his insurance application. Because of this I think QIC acted in accordance with 
its terms and conditions and insurance law, and reasonably towards Mr M in returning his 
renewal premiums. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman