DRN-3818686
The complaint
Mr T complains that Kingswood Financial Advisors (Kingswood) sold him a term assurance 
policy instead of the whole of life policy he requested.
What happened
In 2014, Mr T contacted Kingswood to ask for quotes for a whole of life policy. Kingswood 
sent over quotes for three policies. Following a meeting, Mr T took out a 15 year term 
assurance policy providing £75,000 of cover costing £88 per month (which had been loaded 
due to medical underwriting).
Recently, Mr T realised his policy was a term assurance policy and not a whole of life policy 
like hed asked for and he complained. He would like a refund of premiums or to convert the 
policy into a whole of life policy.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that whilst it was clear Mr T asked 
for a whole of life policy, the policy he received provided more cover than hed receive with 
comparable whole of life policy  which would likely cost significantly more now or have a 
significantly reduced sum assured. He acknowledged that Kingswood did tell Mr T that it was 
a whole of life policy in an email when it wasnt, but didnt think Mr T had suffered any 
detriment as a result.
Mr T disagreed and felt he should be compensated for the error so asked for an 
Ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered what error Kingswood made here. Mr T says he thought he had a whole of 
life policy and that this is what he asked for. I agree that in an email to an introducer he 
asked:
are you able to advise of any whole life cover policies for myself?
In response to this he was sent three quotes  all starting with the words 15 year term. To 
me it was clear that Kingswood hadnt looked at a whole of life policy, but Mr T had asked for 
one.
There was later a meeting that took place, and a fact find was completed  in this it was 
clear Mr Ts protection needs were driven by the premium he could afford. The 
recommendations letter said:
I have recommended a term assurance with [provider] on a level basis over a period of 15 
years providing life cover of £75,000
So, I think Kingswood did enough to make it clear to Mr T that he had a term assurance 
policy  as did the subsequent policy information.
Later, after the policy was in force, Mr T contacted Kingswood again asking for a policy for 
his wife. He asked:
Can you confirm that it is a whole life policy like mine?
He was told it was and this was clearly an error. But this doesnt mean Mr T has suffered any 
detriment. And its important to note that I dont think the policy Mr T was sold was 
unsuitable. He asked for a policy to cover his family and his mortgage. He was sold the 
largest amount of cover he could get for his premium. 
Mr T has told us that he wanted something for the whole of his life but might not be able to 
pay the premiums when he retires at age 75. His current policy lasts until hes 79 years old. 
If he took out a reviewable whole of life policy, its likely the sum assured would be 
significantly lower, and substantial changes would be required in 2024 upon the first review, 
so Mr T would still be faced with the same difficulty after retirement of affording to pay for his 
policy. The policy he was sold provides some level of cover to repay his mortgage which had 
around ten years remaining, and would then provide some cover to his family for the 
remaining time he held the policy. Ive not seen anything to suggest it was unsuitable for his 
needs.
I do appreciate that Mr T wants some compensation and as he said he wasnt aware the 
policy was a term assurance policy, it must have come as some shock to find out this was 
the case. But aside from what appears to be a genuine mistake  which is that the person he 
first spoke to confirmed yes when he asked if the policy was whole of life  I cant see 
Kingswood has done anything wrong here. The recommendations letter explains what the 
policy is and why it was recommended and that recommendation wasnt unsuitable.
Mr T has asked for the policy to be converted into one that would last his whole life, but its 
important to note that I dont think its likely Mr T wouldve ever been sold a whole of life 
policy, or taken one out. This is because of the large differences in sums assured, and the 
reviewable nature of the premiums and sum assured  which would have to be paid 
throughout his life to maintain the cover. The point of sale documents confirm that Mr T had 
a specific premium in mind for his cover, and he was sold a policy that provided him with the 
highest cover for a 15 year period. This took him to beyond retirement and beyond his 
mortgage repayment date. So, I cant see that Kingswoods error in communication has 
caused Mr T to lose out and I think it made it sufficiently clear in other communications that 
he was being sold a term assurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman