DRN-3247667
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service provided by Legal & General (Portfolio Management
Services) Ltd, referred to as L&G or the transferor.
In short, hes unhappy that it failed to cancel his transfer request when instructed to do so, 
as a result of which hes suffered a financial loss.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 24 November 2021, a copy of which is quoted below and forms 
part of this final decision, I said I was minded to uphold the complaint. In summary, I said:
provisionally Im going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what L&G says, I think it behaved
unreasonably by failing to act on Mr Rs instructions to cancel the transfer request. In other
words, on balance I think it erroneously processed the transfer without his authority.
Having considered the issue of redress, and to what extent its liable for any losses suffered,
I think L&G should pay Mr R for 50% of the shortfall of units, plus £100 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience caused.
I also make clear that in this decision Im only considering the actions of L&G, and not the
transferee, despite the obvious connection to this complaint. In other words, a complaint
made against L&G doesnt allow me to consider the actions of the transferee.
Nevertheless, for the record, the transferee accepts that it behaved unreasonably, and in a
separate complaint against it, Ive provisionally decided that it should also pay Mr R for 50% 
of the shortfall of units, plus £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Theres no dispute that on 11 March 2020 Mr Rs IFA notified L&G that he wished to cancel
his instructions to transfer. So, in my opinion it has no justification for proceeding in the way
that it subsequently did.
I appreciate L&G says that the process on its side is automated, but if thats the case it
shouldve done more than just note its file when Mr Rs IFA notified it of his change of
instructions.
Im aware that on the same day Mr Rs IFA subsequently also notified the transferee but at
no point did L&G tell Mr R or his IFA told that if the transferee made a request to proceed
matters would/could proceed despite his instructions to cancel.
I note that by this stage, L&G was waiting for the transferee to respond and provide further
instructions  in order to progress matters. In any case, Im not persuaded that it was too late
to stop the transfer process. Whether or not the transferee was in control of rejecting or
accepting the transfer as suggested by L&G, I dont think matters couldve been completed 
without L&G playing its part in the process.
Theres no dispute that despite Mr Rs instructions to cancel the transfer, on 13 March 2020
the transferee (erroneously) sent L&G an acceptance of the valuation and instructions to
disinvest.
In my opinion, rather than simply ignore these instructions  considering Mr Rs latest
instructions  L&G wrongfully proceeded to disinvest Mr Rs assets, and subsequently
transfer the cash, and in the circumstances I think it acted without authority.
Despite what L&G says, in the circumstances, I dont agree that it was obliged to place the
deal the same day as it received the instructions from the transferee, because it was aware 
that Mr R wished to cancel his request and therefore there was no obligation on it to do so.
In other words, in my opinion L&G cant be in breach of not doing something if it wasnt
authorised to do so in the first place. And if Mr R had raised a query it wouldve been simple
enough for L&G to point out that hed provided instructions to cancel the transfer. Instead it
went against his wishes.
On balance, Im not persuaded that its actions are justified on the basis that it was only
responding to instructions from the transferee when it was independently notified of Mr Rs
change of mind.
I note it wasnt until 7 April 2020, that L&G reinstated Mr Rs ISA. But because of market 
movements, it could only buy fewer units with the cash provided.
In the circumstances, and on balance, in light of my decision against the transferee, Im
satisfied that L&G isnt wholly responsible for this error and is therefore liable to cover only
50% of the losses suffered by Mr R.
In terms of redress, principally there appears to be two heads of loss that need to be
addressed. Firstly, the shortfall of shares that Mr R would otherwise have had but for the 
error and secondly, the lost ISA status.
So, to put things right, provisionally I think L&G should do the following:
1. Work out (and agree with the transferee) the shortfall of shares, using the date of 16
March 2020 (when the funds were disinvested) and the date of 7 April 2020 (when 
the funds were reinvested).
2. Cover 50% of the cost of the repurchasing the missing shares.
3. Liaise with HMRC to have these shares exceptionally transferred to Mr Rs ISA.
4. If it isnt possible to transfer the shares to the ISA  Ive seen nothing to suggest that
it isnt  L&G should pay 50% of the missed stocks and shares allowance on those 
shares.
5. Pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wanted me to consider before making my decision. 
L&G responded and accepted my provisional decision. However, it proposed to calculate 
and initially pay Mr R 100% of the redress,  provided the transferee would reimburse it half of 
the redress. In short, it said:
Ive completed the calculations necessary to put Mr R (name anonymised) in the right 
position  see attached.Its not a straight forward situation as the customers investments have now been transferred 
to a third-party business (name anonymised), as weve recently sold our Personal Investing 
business to them. We have a relationship with the third-party business, so I can liaise with 
them on how I can get the units added to the customers investment. Were only liable for 
50% as youve outlined. However, in the best interests of the customer it would be better if 
we could add 100% of the units at once. L&G are prepared to do this and initially pay for 
100%.
However, before we do this well need confirmation from the transferee (name anonymised) 
that theyll then pay us 50% of the cost
Upon my instructions, the investigator contacted the transferee to see if it agreed with the 
proposed course of action. The transferee agreed but understandably wanted to be involved 
in the calculations. In short, it said:
Whilst we are happy to agree to returning 50% of the loss paid by Legal and General (L&G) 
in practice, we would also wish to liaise with them regarding the calculations to ensure that 
they are inline with our own. We would be reluctant to agree to cover 50% of the losses, 
without any involvement or prior knowledge of the total their calculation reached.
Im aware that the transferees details have now been passed to L&G for this purpose. 
Mr R also responded and said that he was content with my provisional uphold and proposed 
course of action. Although he initially had a number of observations about my provisional 
redress methodology, at my request Mr R was asked to consider the proposal by L&G. 
Having done so, Mr R agreed with the proposed course of action. He feels its the most 
simple and straightforward way of reinstating his ISA to the position it would be in but for the 
error. He also wanted confirmation that this wouldnt count against this years ISA allowance. 
In response to Mr Rs query, L&G has confirmed the following: 
No any corrective action wont impact this years ISA allowance. Once its complete Ill 
confirm it all in writing for Mr R (name anonymised).
Its against this background that Ive gone on to consider my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in the absence of any objections, my decision remains the same as set out 
in my provisional decision, for the same reasons. 
I still think L&G should pay Mr R for 50% of the shortfall of units, plus £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused, as set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, to put things right, I still think L&G should do the following:
1. Work out (and agree with the transferee) the shortfall of shares, using the date of 16
March 2020 (when the funds were disinvested) and the date of 7 April 2020 (when 
the funds were reinvested).
2. Cover 50% of the cost of the repurchasing the missing shares.
3. Liaise with HMRC to have these shares exceptionally transferred to Mr Rs ISA.4. If it isnt possible to transfer the shares to the ISA  Ive seen nothing to suggest that
it isnt  L&G should pay 50% of the missed stocks and shares allowance on those 
shares.
5. Pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
For practicality and simplicity, Im aware that L&G has proposed to calculate and initially pay 
Mr R 100% of the cost, on the basis that the transferee will reimburse L&G 50% of that. Im 
mindful that the transferee is content to do so, but would like to be involved in the 
calculations, which L&G would encourage. 
Considering the transferees positive response, Ive no objections to L&G working out and 
paying redress in this way, and I see no reason why the two businesses cant be left to work 
out the redress between them. 
Im mindful of Mr Rs comments. In my provisional decision, on one occasion I called him Mr 
H. It was a typo, and I apologise for any upset this may have caused. 
Mr R also clarified that he contacted L&G, and not the IFA, as I had suggested in the latter 
part of my provisional decision. I apologise for the oversight, and Im grateful for the 
clarification. Neither of the points mentioned effects the outcome of this decision.  
Putting things right
Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd should do the following:
1. Work out (and agree with the transferee) the shortfall of shares, using the date of 16
March 2020 (when the funds were disinvested) and the date of 7 April 2020 (when 
the funds were reinvested).
2. Cover 50% of the cost of the repurchasing the missing shares.
3. Liaise with HMRC to have these shares exceptionally transferred to Mr Rs ISA.
4. If it isnt possible to transfer the shares to the ISA  Ive seen nothing to suggest that
it isnt  L&G should pay 50% of the missed stocks and shares allowance on those 
shares.
5. Pay Mr R £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Legal & General (Portfolio Management Services) Ltd, referred to as L&G or the 
transferor, should calculate and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman