DRN-4401249
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited didnt settle her critical illness 
claim in full.
What happened
The background to this matter is not in dispute. Miss S took out decreasing term life 
insurance with critical illness benefit in 2015. In 2016 she took out additional cover under the 
Moving House section of her original policy. She was diagnosed with ductal carcinoma in 
situ in 2017. Miss S claimed under the additional critical illness section of her policies in 
2022, she hadnt realised she was covered earlier. Aviva settled the claims by paying 20% of 
the cover values in line with the policy terms. 
Miss S believes the terms are unclear and that the settlement is unfair. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint was upheld. Miss S appealed. In 
summary she said she had no reason to believe that she would receive less than the full 
value of her policy. She feels the 20% clause was in a place that made no logical sense 
and was intentionally misleading as it is easily missed. Miss S would like the paper booklets 
should be read in paper copy.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to determine.
I have referred to policy rather than policies as the wording is the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Ive fully reviewed the complete file. Having done so I 
agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
The policy defines what is covered under the Critical Illness section 4. Miss Ss 
condition wasnt covered under Cancer  excluding less advanced cases.  
Additionally a specific exclusion was in place  all cancers which are histologically 
classified as any of the following: cancer in situ. Several conditions are covered 
under section 4, but each condition is under its own heading, so the section is easy 
to follow. The Critical Illness section is followed by the Additional Critical Illness 
Benefit section 4A. Again, the section does cover other conditions, but each is under 
its own heading and the section is easy to read and in plain English. Aviva met the 
claim under this section.
 
Ive carefully considered Miss Ss representations about the policy wording, but Im 
satisfied that it wasnt misleading. Miss S also feels the policy was unclear, and 
intentionally so, I dont agree. I havent seen the paper copy, as we operate on a 
paperless basis. But I am able to see the exact order of the pages, so I have taken 
Miss Ss arguments about the wording of the policy on board. I do appreciate her 
point that she wouldnt have been able to recall what the original documents 
contained. Thats understandable, but it doesnt mean that the policy was unclear  
only that she would have needed to remind herself of the terms at the appropriate 
time.
I recognise that my decision will be very disappointing for Miss S and Im sorry that it 
doesnt bring her more welcome news. But I cant say that the policy documents were 
unclear or misleading. Aviva has backdated her claim and paid the benefit due with 
interest. In all the circumstances I dont find it has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman