DRN-3839831
The complaint
Mr D, on behalf of the Estate of Ms D, has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) 
unfairly declined a claim for damage to a wall under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D contacted Ageas to make a claim when a wall in her garden collapsed. A few months 
later, Ageas sent a surveyor to assess the damage. A few weeks after this, the surveyor 
phoned Ms D to tell her the claim had been declined.
Shortly after this, Ms D died and Mr D took over dealing with the claim. Ageas wrote to Mr D 
and confirmed the decision to decline the claim due to the pre-existing condition of the wall 
and the degradation of the retained soil bank. Mr D reviewed a copy of the surveyors report 
and told Ageas he didnt agree with it. Ageas didnt reply, but later confirmed to this service 
that we could consider Mr Ds complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the surveyor found a range of pre-
existing issues with the wall, which the policy didnt provide cover for. So, he said it was 
reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim.
As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 10 November 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ms Ds wall collapsed during a time of significant bad weather in the region where she lived 
and that centred on the area she was based in. This included Torrential Rain recorded 
within one mile of Ms Ds home on the day before the wall collapsed of 23.9mm of rain in 
one hour and 48.8mm in 24 hours. The day the wall collapsed 21.5mm was recorded in one 
hour with 86.7mm in 24 hours. There was also flooding to properties recorded within one 
mile of Ms Ds postcode. Following this weather event, a review of flash flooding in the 
region was carried out by a government non-departmental public body to consider what had 
happened on those dates and its impacts in order to understand extreme short duration 
floods.
When Ms D contacted Ageas, she explained there was a slope near the wall, water had built 
up and the pressure had pushed down the wall. Ageas said it would send a surveyor. After 
some chasing by Ms D, about three months later a surveyor visited. The surveyors report 
explained what he assessed to be the cause of the wall collapsing. He said:
The damaged wall is partially retaining with a soil bank in the medical centre side. It is from 
this direction the majority of the rainwater has come from causing the wall to fall outwards 
into the terraced houses gardens. As this has happened it has also taken down the corner of 
the wall which is in the customers garden. On inspection of the remaining wall and the 
condition of the brickwork it would appear it was not in good condition with foliage growth 
and missing pointing. These defects along with the retained soil bank have been highlighted 
by the recent heavy rainfall which has then combined to caused the wall to collapse in the 
adjoining gardens. I do not believe the wall has been specifically damaged by the weather 
conditions alone. The wall does appear to have been listing outwards which has then been 
compromised by the poor weather.
I provided Ageas with video footage of the flooding in the area Ms D lived and a link to the 
public bodys report and asked Ageas some questions about the surveyors findings. Ageas 
said the surveyor was no longer with the surveyor company. It said it had tried to contact him 
but without success. I asked whether the surveyor was aware of the weather conditions 
when the wall collapsed. Ageas said he would have been and that he would have checked 
the weather database that showed the torrential rain outlined above and that he had 
referenced heavy rainfall in his report. 
I also asked Ageas to consider bulletins prepared by the local council that listed roads within 
a half mile radius of Ms Ds property where properties were flooded due to drains being 
overwhelmed. I asked how the surveyor was able to say the wall had a lean before the water 
built up behind it, rather than it being the result of it. I asked Ageas to explain how the foliage 
growth had contributed to the wall collapsing and how it knew the three-month delay in the 
surveyor visiting hadnt affected the foliage growth. When Ageas replied it said it had used 
the remote sense data provided by its weather service. It said the weather data didnt 
constitute enough to be considered a storm or flood. It said if Mr D could provide evidence 
there were drainage issues that caused the damage, it would review this further. It said the 
issues with the wall, including the mortar and foliage would have taken longer than three 
months to occur. However, it had been unable to contact the surveyor to get his comments.
I dont agree with Ageas that the amount of rainfall wouldnt be regarded as a flood or storm. 
Ive looked at the policy and couldnt find a definition for either of these perils, but the hourly 
and daily amount of rainfall on both days would normally be regarded as well above the 
minimum levels to show storm conditions. The weather conditions were recorded one mile 
away. The weather service defined a flood as sudden escape of water from a burst river, 
canal or dam, or inundation from the sea. It also included a disclaimer for flood information 
that said: flooding is often localised and caused by factors unrelated to the weather and 
that it couldnt claim to be an authority. So, the weather service was measuring a specific 
type of flooding and acknowledged there might be other localised flooding and that it wasnt 
an authority on this.
Ageas and the surveyor havent disputed that water hit the wall. I accept that people leave 
companies, but this means it hasnt been possible to understand about the lean the surveyor 
identified with the wall or whether the flood would have affected the mortar. Im aware that 
Ageas has said the foliage would have taken longer than three months to grow, but I havent 
seen any assessment of whether the wall being knocked over enabled the foliage to grow 
more than it would have otherwise or how the foliage affected the stability of the wall. Im 
also not clear how the surveyor could assess that the soil was saturated over time, by which 
I take to mean before the wall collapsed, when he didnt view the wall until three months 
after the incident and doesnt seem to have given any consideration to the soil saturation 
caused by the weather event on the day the wall collapsed and whether the soil saturation 
could have built up further after that.
Mr D told this service he had spoken to the nearby medical centre that had also been 
affected:
  who confirms that their boundary wall fell into neighbouring properties on [a named 
close-by road] due to the volume and force of water which had been running down the slope 
of the grounds and against the wall, following a lengthy period of very heavy rainfall. We recalled that at the time we both spoke with affected property owners on [the named 
close-by road] who had suffered flood damage to their houses, specifically after the wall fell 
and the released flood water ran through their (sizeable) back garden and into their house to 
the front of their property. All of the other insurance companies involved had upheld the 
claims, so I imagine that reports of this flood water and resulting damage would be in the 
respective claim documentation."
Im unable to access information on other claims, but I have no reason to doubt what Mr D 
has said about what happened in terms of the flood water and the impact on neighbouring 
properties. In my view, this is also consistent with the weather conditions recorded in the 
local area and its impact on the day the wall collapsed.
Based on everything Ive seen, I currently intend to say I dont think it was fair for Ageas to 
decline the claim. There were flash floods in the local area with flooding recorded within one 
mile of where Ms D lived from rivers, or similar. The drainage system was overwhelmed 
within half a mile of where Ms D lived. Ageas and the surveyor havent disputed there was 
significant rainfall or that water built up behind the wall. In my view, Ageas hasnt been able 
to show why a survey carried out three months after the damage happened is more 
persuasive than the clearly documented local conditions that show the extent and impact of 
flooding in the local area. Based on what Ive seen, I currently think its more likely than not 
that the main cause of the wall collapsing was the flood water hitting the wall. The wall has 
now been repaired. Mr D said this cost £1,296. So, I currently intend to say that Ageas must 
pay that amount to resolve this complaint, although it can take into account any excess 
payable when making settlement. 
Ageas has also told this service the delay in the surveyor visiting didnt affect the claim. Im 
not currently persuaded by this view. I think this caused distress and inconvenience to Ms D. 
I also havent seen evidence to show the surveyor took into account the delay and whether 
this affected the conditions he observed when he inspected the wall. So, I also currently 
intend to say that Ageas should pay £300 compensation to the Estate of Ms D.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 8 December 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
Mr D agreed with my decision. He said he could provide further evidence related to 
neighbouring properties. He also commented on the provider of the insurance policy. Ive 
read this, but havent repeated it here as its about a different company than Ageas.
Ageas disagreed with my decision. It said although there was rainfall, this didnt cause the 
wall to collapse. It pointed to the surveyors findings, including the photos, the condition of 
the wall and the foliage growth. It said these issues were the reason the wall collapsed. It 
said the proximate cause of the damage needed to be an insured event. It said the 
proximate cause wasnt the flood, it was the pre-existing damages. It said it was correct to 
decline the claim.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive considered the comments from both Ageas and Mr 
D. Im aware Ageas disagrees with what I said in my provisional decision. When I made that 
decision, I carefully considered the surveyors report and the photos. I also considered other 
evidence, including the local conditions at the time the wall fell, the delay in the wall being 
assessed and Mr Ds comments about how neighbours were affected. I explained how this 
informed my view of the surveyors findings and why I didnt think it was reasonable to 
decline the claim. 
Ageas comments dont cause me to change my view about how this claim should be 
resolved. I remain of the view that its more likely than not that the flood was the main cause 
of the wall collapsing. So, I require Ageas to settle the claim and to pay £300 compensation.
Putting things right
Ageas must pay £1,296 for the cost of repairing the wall and £300 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay £1,296 for the cost of repairing the wall.
Pay £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms D 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman