DRN-1844487
The complaint
Mr N complained about the service provided by British Gas Services Limited (British Gas) 
under its Home Care insurance policy. 
What happened
 Mr N holds a Home Care policy with British Gas that provides servicing and breakdown 
cover for his boiler. In May 2019 a British Gas engineer serviced Mr Ns boiler. He called 
Mr N at work to say the flue manifold clip was broken and needed to be repaired. He asked 
for Mr Ns consent to do that and explained that he would need to pay the £60 excess. Mr N 
refused to provide consent as he said the boiler had been working perfectly before the 
service. The engineer asked Mr Ns wife to sign the service form and told her not to touch 
the boiler as it wasnt safe. Mr N paid another engineer to repair the boiler the following day.
Mr N complained to British Gas that he shouldnt have to pay for damage caused by its 
engineer. He also said he hadnt been told about an excess and didnt think the engineer 
should have got his wife to sign the checklist because she doesnt understand English very 
well. 
British Gas told this service that Mr Ns boiler was about 34 years old and the damage could 
have been caused by wear and tear. It said the Home Care cover included an excess charge 
of £60 and that was clear from the information it had given Mr N ever since hed taken out 
the policy in October 2017. It also said the terms and conditions of the policy explained why 
it needed a signature from a responsible person at the property.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. She said she hadnt seen any conclusive 
evidence that the boiler had been damaged by the engineer. She noted that Mr N said the 
boiler was six years old and not 34 years old but said that didnt alter her view. She said the 
terms and conditions had been sent to the correct address and there were numerous 
references in them to the excess charge. She was also satisfied with the reasons given by 
British Gas for needing a responsible person to sign the checklist. 
As Mr N remained unhappy, the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision. I 
didnt agree with all of the investigators findings. So I sent a provisional decision to Mr N and 
British Gas to explain why I intended to come to a different outcome to the investigator. 
British Gas didnt respond. Mr N accepted my decision. As such, my findings and decision 
below are substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is in this 
complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and wider 
circumstances.The engineers record of his visit to Mr Ns property simply says Flue manifold clip 
damaged. It doesnt say how it was damaged or when it was damaged. Mr N is adamant the 
flue manifold clip wasnt broken before the service and hes been consistent in this 
throughout the complaints process. He said there was no problem with the boiler before the 
service and hed only agreed to a service because British Gas had kept prompting him to do 
so. He said the boiler would have stopped working had the flue manifold clip been broken 
before the engineer arrived. And the fact the boiler was working before then indicates it must 
have been the engineer who damaged it. He also said the boiler was six years old and not 
34 years old as suggested by British Gas and believes this untruth misled our investigator.
I dont know how old the boiler is and, in any event, I think wear and tear will cause some 
parts to break whether theyre six years old or 34 years old, although it will of course be 
more likely to happen the older it is. I also dont know whether the boiler would have stopped 
working if the flue manifold clip had been broken before the service. But I have no reason to 
doubt that the boiler was in good working order before the engineer arrived. I also cant see 
any reason why the clip on the flue manifold cover would break if nobody was touching it. 
And I think its more likely that an engineer servicing the boiler would be taking the flue 
manifold off rather than the owner of the property who would have little, if any, reason to do 
so. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that the British Gas engineer damaged the 
flue manifold clip.
Servicing a boiler, particularly one thats several years old, will have its risks and I doubt its 
unusual for engineers to damage parts of boilers in the process. But I dont think its fair or 
reasonable to expect the owner to pay for any such damage when its been caused by the 
engineer whos role is to service the boiler. In this case, I think a fair outcome would be for 
British Gas to reimburse Mr N for the cost he incurred in getting the damage repaired, 
without charging him the excess. 
Mr N also complained he was unaware of the policy excess. But I agree with our investigator 
on this point as I think it was made clear that an excess charge was included in his policy 
and that this would need to be paid before any repairs were carried out. And I also agree 
that the terms and conditions of Mr Ns policy set out why it was necessary for his wife to 
sign the checklist.
In summary, while Im satisfied British Gas notified Mr N about the £60 excess and acted 
fairly in asking his wife to sign the checklist, I dont think its acted fairly in asking him to pay 
the excess for repairing the part of the boiler that, on balance, I think was damaged by the 
engineer when servicing the boiler. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I think British Gas should reimburse Mr N for the cost he incurred in 
getting the damage repaired by a third party. He's provided an invoice as evidence of this 
cost. Mr N thinks British Gas should pay his premium back but I dont think it would be 
proportionate to ask it to do that. However, this matter has caused Mr N a certain amount of 
distress and inconvenience and I think it would be fair and reasonable for British Gas to also 
pay him £100 for the trouble and upset its caused.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint in part and ask British Gas 
Services Limited to pay Mr N the full amount it cost him to repair his boiler plus £100 for the 
trouble and upset it caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Richard Walker
Ombudsman