DRN-3097945
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) unfairly declined a claim 
under a warranty.
What happened
Mr B contacted D&G to make a claim for accidental damage for a TV that he had recently 
bought. D&G arranged for it to be assessed. D&G told Mr B that the screen needed to be 
replaced but it was no longer made. 
D&G requested proof of purchase. Mr B provided the TV invoice. D&G then investigated the 
claim and said it couldnt identify the business named on the invoice. D&G declined the claim 
and cancelled the policy. 
When Mr B complained to D&G, it said it had correctly declined the claim as there was a 
discrepancy with the proof of purchase. So, Mr B complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. He said D&G had appropriately assessed the claim and wasnt 
able to validate it.
As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
D&G asked Mr B for proof of purchase, which he provided. When D&G checked the details 
of the business, this showed that the company of that name had stopped trading a few years 
before. Mr B told our investigator that the shop had only recently closed. Ive seen a photo of 
the outside of a shop that showed a shuttered shop with no identifying features. 
Mr B said the payment of £599.99 was made partly in cash and partly by BACS payment. He 
has provided entries from his bank account. This showed a payment of £300, but the 
payment wasnt to the business listed on the invoice. There was also a £100 cash 
withdrawal around the time the TV was purchased, although Mr B has said he had cash in 
his house to pay for the TV.
Based on what Ive seen, D&G investigated the claim and had concerns about the proof of 
purchase. Although Mr B provided information to try and support his claim, this didnt deal 
with D&Gs concerns. So, in the circumstances I think it was reasonable that D&G declined 
the claim and Im not persuaded that it needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman