DRN-3420118
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Loans) lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr M was given two loans by Everyday Loans. The details of these loans are given below:
Loan Date taken Date repaid instalments amount Repayments
1 22/06/2018 20/02/2019 24 £1500 £134.39
2 20/02/2019 outstanding 30 £2300 £159.19
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Everyday Loans on both occasions it lent to Mr M asked for information about his income 
and expenditure. It requested bank statements to verify the income and some expenditure 
that Mr M had told it he had. It carried out a credit search on both occasions. It also used 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to assess Mr Ms living expenses.
I think in the circumstances when it agreed to both of the loans, it would have been 
proportionate for Everyday Loans to have done more to check Mr Ms regular expenditure. I 
say this when I consider the amount Mr M was borrowing and the term given on either loan. 
Everyday Loans also would have seen when it conducted its credit searches that Mr M had a 
default with an outstanding balance, and I think this ought to have prompted it to want to 
know more as well. But I dont need to draw any further conclusions about all this. This is 
because, on balance, I dont think Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision for either 
loan and I will explain why.
Mr M asked for loan 1 in June 2018 for £1500 and when he did this, he told them about his 
income and expenditure. His income was validated by bank statements gathered and when I 
see Everyday Loans income and expenditure sheet I can see, on the face of it, he had 
sufficient income to be able to afford the loan.
But the lender was aware from the credit check it had acquired that Mr M had existing credit 
commitments. He had a hire purchase agreement with a monthly loan repayment of £204.66 
and he had an outstanding balance to repay on a defaulted account. It could also see from 
the bank statements that it had collated that Mr M was consistently using his overdraft and 
this was attracting fees daily. 
With this in mind, I agree with the investigator when he said Mr M was paying a 
significant amount of his income to credit commitments. Mr M had a large hire 
purchase agreement, an outstanding default and overdraft fees to repay each month. 
This all meant that, once added to the monthly repayment of this loan, Mr M was 
paying such a significant proportion of his monthly income on credit repayments that 
Everyday Loans ought to have realised it was unlikely that he would be able to 
sustainably repay his loan over the two-year term. And, in these circumstances, when I 
consider what was shown on the credit search, the bank statements and what it would 
have found Mr M to be committed to, Everyday Loans should reasonably have 
concluded that it was not fair to lend to him.
Mr Ms finances didnt improve when he asked for loan 2. Everyday Loans would have seen 
that Mr M had taken out another loan, alongside his hire purchase agreement. He was still 
reliant on his overdraft and he hadnt made any inroads into repaying his defaulted account 
balance. Mr Ms credit commitments had increased and by this stage, along with the monthly 
repayment for loan 2, he was due to repay around 45% of his monthly income in credit 
repayments. I think Everyday Loans ought to have seen this and should have reasonably 
concluded that the loan repayments were not sustainable over the 30-month term of loan 2 
and not agreed to it.
Taking everything into account, I dont currently think Everyday Loans should have agreed to 
provide either loan to Mr M. So, I am currently intending to uphold this complaint and direct 
Everyday Loans to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Everyday Loans did not respond. Mr Ms representatives 
responded and said it had received the provisional decision. It did not add any further 
comments though.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has not made any new points for me to respond to and Everyday Loans has not 
responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment 
on or that will change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from 
my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.  
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr M to repay the principal amount that he borrowed for 
both loans, because he has had the benefit of the lending. But he has paid interest and 
charges on lending that shouldnt have been provided to him.
Everyday Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on loans 1-2 and treat all the payments Mr M 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then Everyday Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he 
asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman