DRN-3043400
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about a claim they made on their pet insurance policy with 
U K Insurance Limited (UKI). They are unhappy that the claim was declined as UKI 
considered the underlying condition existed before the policy began and so the claim was 
excluded from cover.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H arranged a pet insurance policy for their dog on 29 September 2019. 
In December 2019 Mr and Mrs H made a claim for veterinary treatment for their dog which 
had resulted in a diagnosis of diabetes. The claim form completed by the treating vet said 
the condition first started on 24 September 2019 with weight loss investigation, blood tests 
and urinalysis, which diagnosed diabetes. The treatment dates being claimed for were 
24 September 2019 to 2 December 2019.
The vet notes from 24 September 2019 stated General  history : Scooting, weight loss. 
Findings : HUGE AGs, prune sized with creamy infected material. BCS good by O reports 
more voluminous faeces, ravenous appetite and weight loss. No diagnosis was recorded, 
but it was planned to take bloods in the future and also to rule out exocrine pancreating 
insufficiency (EPI).
The claim was declined because the first symptoms were present before Mr and Mrs H had 
taken out the policy  it was a pre-existing condition that was excluded from cover. 
The treating vet provided comment on the claim being declined. It confirmed the dog had 
been diagnosed with diabetes mellitus and EPI, which were not related to each other. The 
report went on to say: 
We first saw the patient on 24/9/19 for a history of looser stools and anal gland issues. 
Weight loss was noted, and, as you can see per the notes, the most likely differential was 
exocrine pancreating insufficiency or another gastrointestinal issue, however, given the age 
of the dog, bloods were also suggested to rule out any other causes of diarrhoea (ie 
liver/kidney/pancreatic/addions etc). At this point, as you can see from the notes, there was 
no mention of diabetes, nor any clinical signs reported by the owners leading us to be 
suspicious of this. It was not until 05/11/19 that diabetes was diagnosed. Surely, just 
because there was mention of some weight loss, with the suggestion to take bloods, there is 
no argument that there was a pre-existing condition? Bearing in mind, as previously stated, 
that the top differential was gastrointestinal cause.
UKI considered what the vet had said, but didnt change its decision about declining the 
claim. It relied on what the vet had said on the claim form.
At the beginning of March 2020 the dogs health deteriorated and it was sent to an internal 
medicine specialist at a referral veterinary centre. This was because the dog had had an 
unprecedented response to insulin and continuing high BG- continual ketonuria. Concerned 
re: development of DKA  would strongly adv referral for Fl/stabilisation and detailed abdo 
scan to excl pos of pancreatic mass/abscess etc.
The specialist vet notes stated that the dog had been presented for further diagnostic work 
up of his diabetes and EPI. It was detailed:
Since August [name] defecated more and more frequently and had large voluminous stools, 
but no diarrhoea. He lost progressively small amount of weight and was very 
hungry/obsessed with food.
He has been diagnosed to have diabetes in Nov 19 (he was drinking a lot, had a few 
accidents, still having very voluminous stool). Since then on insulin therapy, started with 4IU 
caninsulin twice daily. Was initially fed 3 times daily, because he appeared so hungry. 
EPI was finally diagnosed with the add on of Lypex, he finally put on weight, but was 
becoming fussier and fussier with his food. 
Last week he was suddenly very sick, was vomiting all of his food and had a hypoglycaemic 
episode. Was hospitalised, INSULIN WAS STOPPED temporarily but restarted. Since then 
he is lethargic, floppy. 
Diagnostic imaging: The pancreas is normal in size and mildly hyperechoic similar to the 
surrounding mesenteric fat. Three small hypoechoic nodules are seen in the pancreas, the 
largest one measuring 5.9 mm. 
Conclusion: Pancreas: nodular hyperplasia, chronic pancreatitis, degree of fibrosis, 
(neoplasia). 
Diagnosis: 
EPI, suspicion due to chronic pancreatitis. Diabetes mellitus, suspicion due to chronic 
pancreatitis. Low normal cobalamin Ddx malabsorption, EPI.
The specialist vet produced a report on 6 March 2020 for the vet that had referred the dog to 
her. It detailed the results of the abdominal scan thatd been done and confirmed that both 
the EPI and diabetes were suspected to have been caused by chronic pancreatitis.
Mr and Mrs H complained about UKIs decision. UKI responded to the complaint, but didnt 
uphold it. It said the claim form received in December 2019 was for the diagnosis of 
diabetes. It said the vet had first been consulted about the symptoms that had resulted in the 
diagnosis on 24 September 2019. UKI highlighted that the insurance policy was taken out 
five days after the vet had said the symptoms had started. Given the symptoms that were 
present in September 2019 were common symptoms of diabetes, UKI had been satisfied the 
condition had existed before the policy did, which meant it was excluded. It was satisfied its 
decision, based on the information it had at the time had been right. 
UKI said it had then taken into account the later diagnosis of EPI, but went on to highlight 
that the vet report of March 2020 had put forward pancreatitis as the underlying cause of 
both the diabetes and the EPI. Which it took to mean that the two conditions were most likely 
linked and so the EPI would also be considered to be pre-existing. It pointed out that no 
other underlying cause for the two conditions, evidencing they were separate conditions, had 
been found. UKI didnt change its conclusions and remained satisfied the claim should be 
declined. It explained to Mr and Mrs H that initially it had concluded from the first vets notes 
that the diabetes was a pre-existing condition. However, the specialist vet had concluded that it was most likely the diabetes and the EPI had the same underlying cause and were, 
therefore, related  so both pre-existing. 
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with UKIs conclusions. They said they didnt think the two 
conditions were linked and it hadnt been proven definitively that the dog had pancreatitis. As 
such, they considered UKI had made a decision without definitive proof. Mr and Mrs H 
complained about UKIs decision.
UKI issued a response to that complaint. It said that any diagnosis of the symptoms present 
in the consultation of 24 September 2019 would be considered a pre-existing condition as 
the policy didnt exist at that point. Whilst the diagnosis of diabetes wasnt made until the 
beginning of November, the symptoms the dog was suffering throughout were associated 
with diabetes and so UKI was satisfied the condition was pre-existing. However, the vet had 
subsequently said the symptoms were encompassed by EPI rather than diabetes. 
When the specialist vets notes were reviewed it was recorded that it was suspected chronic 
pancreatitis had caused both the EPI and the diabetes. UKI said that although it hadnt been 
definitively proven the EPI and diabetes had been caused by pancreatitis, the evidence 
suggested it was more likely than not. It went on to reiterate when two conditions were linked 
by an underlying cause, they are considered to be one condition for the purposes of policy 
cover. It also commented that the vets hadnt, if there were separate causes for the EPI and 
diabetes, confirmed what those causes could be. UKI was satisfied that it had made the right 
decision and had followed its terms and conditions; it rejected the complaint. 
The specialist vet provided comment in support of the claim. She said that the diagnosis of 
pancreatitis is not easy because there is no standard test for it  rather it is diagnosed by the 
use of a combination of clinical signs, imaging and blood tests. She continued by 
commenting that the presentation of pancreatitis can vary wildly, especially when the 
condition is chronic. The vet went on to say that imaging findings are quite variable as well 
and that they only provide a snapshot as to the condition of the pancreatitis, with rechecks 
needed and recommended to understand a possible progression in the findings. In 
summary, the vet said that they didnt know anything about the dogs pancreas, that it was 
all assumptions and she didnt agree that chronic pancreatitis existed before the policy 
started and the diabetes was caused by it. 
UKI confirmed that its letter of June 2020 had been its final position on the claim, so 
Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld.
Mr and Mrs H confirmed that they understood the concept of a pre-existing condition not 
being covered by the policy. However, they said the symptoms in September 2019 had later 
been attributed to a condition other than the EPI rather than the diabetes, and the two 
conditions were unrelated. They confirmed that theyd never tried to submit a claim for the 
EPI, but they believe the diabetes should be covered.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Hs further comments, but he didnt change his 
conclusions. He highlighted that when the treating vet had completed the claim form in 
December 2019, she had been clear that the investigations and treatment were linked to the 
diabetes diagnosis. While she had contradicted those comments in her later statement, she 
hadnt explained why she had changed her conclusions, especially in relation to symptoms 
that were common to diabetes. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the complaint should be referred to an 
ombudsman for consideration.
Relevant policy terms
We wont cover:
1. any claim for or in connection with any illness arising during the first 14 days of your pet 
being covered.
2. any claims in connection with or arising from any pre-existing condition.
Condition is defined within the policy as:
Any injury or illness or any symptoms or signs of injury or illness, including related 
conditions or problems, no matter where these are noticed or happen in or on your pet.
Pre-existing condition is defined as:
Any condition or symptoms, or signs or injury or illness, that happen or exist in any form 
before the pet was covered by this insurance.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 July 2021 setting out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
In this case the initial claim form attributed the symptoms noticed by Mr and Mrs H before 
they took out their policy with the diagnosis of diabetes. On this basis, I dont consider UKI 
acted inappropriately when it declined the claim based on the diabetes having existed before 
the policy had  the condition was pre-existing. 
When Mr and Mrs H appealed UKIs decision and further information was provided, UKI 
accepted the September 2019 symptoms might not have been linked to the diabetes 
diagnosis, but rather a later diagnosis of EPI. However, it concluded that both the EPI and 
the diabetes would be considered to be the same condition, as they both arose because of 
an underlying problem with the pancreas. As there were symptoms to evidence at least one 
of the illnesses, before the policy existed, that meant the underlying condition existed before 
the policy did. Any illnesses that were caused by the underlying condition, would fall to be 
described as a pre-existing condition as far as the policy was concerned.
Mr and Mrs H and the specialist vet have said that there has not been a definitive diagnosis 
that the dog was suffering from pancreatitis. Theyve also said that it hasnt been proven that 
the two conditions resulted from the underlying condition, if it existed. 
I can understand the points Mr and Mrs H have made in this regard, but I am not persuaded 
that UKI reached an incorrect conclusion. The information from the specialist vets records 
say the scan that was completed showed there were abnormalities with the dogs pancreas. 
The specialist vet concluded that both the EPI and the diabetes were most likely linked to 
those pancreatic abnormalities. As the EPI is accepted to have been responsible for the 
symptoms in September 2019, it follows that if it was caused by pancreatitis, that 
pancreatitis existed before the policy was taken out. In those circumstances, if the diabetes 
was linked to the pancreatitis, even if it developed after the policy had been arranged, the 
diabetes would reasonably be considered a pre-existing condition. 
I note the specialist vet has stepped back from her conclusions about there being an 
underlying cause for both conditions and that likely being pancreatitis. We usually place 
more weight on contemporaneous evidence and less on that where hindsight may have influenced revised conclusions. That would be the situation in this case. I also note that the 
vet hasnt provided a clear explanation of why she subsequently doubted that the dog had 
pancreatitis, when initially she was satisfied to accept the scan results. Indeed, she 
confirmed her findings to the vet that had referred the dog to her and would, in normal 
circumstances, be using that information for ongoing treatment of the dog. Nor did the vet 
suggest any alternative cause for the two medical conditions.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Hs point that UKI cant definitively prove that both the EPI and 
diabetes are linked to an underlying condition of pancreatitis. However, in situations such as 
this where, for example, a condition is difficult to prove conclusively and necessary testing 
hasnt been done, it is not unreasonable for the evidence to be viewed on the basis of what 
is most likely to be the case. That is what UKI did in this case and I dont think it was 
inappropriate of it to do so.  
Overall, I dont think UKI acted inappropriately in this case when it determined that both the 
EPI and the diabetes Mr and Mrs Hs dog suffered fell to be described as a pre-existing 
condition. As such, UKI acted reasonably when it declined the claim made in December 
2019.
UKI accepted my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs H didnt. They said they wanted to clarify that they were definitely not asking UKI 
to cover the diagnosis and treatment of EPI, as they acknowledge that this was a 
pre-existing condition. They then reiterated their account of the investigation and diagnosis 
of the diabetes; essentially that it didnt develop until after the policy was in place. 
A further report was provided by the specialist vet practice, although not by the individual 
who had treated Mr and Mrs Hs dog. It said:
The EPI could have been caused by chronic pancreatitis, but a common cause is also an 
immune-mediated process causing pancreatic acinar and ductal atrophy. 
The reviewing vet was unaware of clinical signs attributable to chronic pancreatitis and it 
was only suggested as a result of the ultrasound it conducted. However, the results of 
the ultrasound could have been attributable to other conditions. 
No definitive diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis was made and there are other potential 
causes for EPI, so it would be unreasonable to exclude EPI as a pre-existing condition.
The cause of diabetes in dogs is unknown. There are several diseases it is postulated 
could cause diabetes, and pancreatitis is one, but it could also be caused by immune-
mediated beta-cell destruction and beta-cell exhaustion/glucose toxicity as a 
consequence of prolonged insulin resistance. 
As a definitive diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis was not made it was just a suggestion, it 
would be unreasonable to exclude diabetes from cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the new report provided by the vet practice, but it hasnt persuaded me to 
change my conclusions. The reviewing vet has said there are possibilities other than 
pancreatitis as the cause of diabetes; I accept that this might be the case. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, we place greater weight on contemporaneous 
evidence, especially when further evidence has been provided by someone who wasnt 
involved in the diagnosis or treatment. The treating vet decided at the time of diagnosis that 
both the EPI and the diabetes were most likely linked to pancreatitis. 
I remain satisfied that UKI acted reasonably when it concluded that both diagnoses were as 
a result of one underlying condition, which would fall to be considered as pre-existing. As 
such, UKIs decision to decline the claim wasnt inappropriate. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 21 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman