DRN-4426401
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money they lost 
when they were the victims of a scam.
What happened
Around mid-2022, Mr B and Mrs C had spoken to friends who had invested in cryptocurrency 
and were interested in doing so themselves. The searched online and came across an 
investment company they thought looked genuine, so filled in their details on the companys 
website. They then received a call from someone who said they worked for the investment 
company and talked them through opening an account and how to pay money into their 
investment.
Mr B and Mrs C then made a series of payments from a number of different accounts into a 
new account the company helped them open with another bank, and then on to a 
cryptocurrency exchange. And this included a payment of £25,000 made in branch from their 
joint Nationwide account in August 2022.
Unfortunately, we now know the investment company was a scam.
After the scam was uncovered, Mr B and Mrs C reported the payment they had made to 
Nationwide and asked it to refund the money they had lost. But Nationwide didnt agree to 
refund the money, so Mr B and Mrs C referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They thought Nationwide should have been 
concerned about the payment and done more to protect Mr B and Mrs C before allowing it to 
go through. But they also thought Mr B and Mrs C should bear some responsibility too. So 
they recommended Nationwide refund 50% of the payment. Nationwide disagreed with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Nationwide do enough to protect Mr B and Mrs C?
Banks are expected to make payments in line with their customers instructions. And Mr B 
and Mrs C accept they made the payment here. So while I recognise they didnt intend for 
the money to go to scammers, they did authorise the payment. And so the starting position 
in law is that Nationwide was obliged to follow their instructions and make the payment. So 
Mr B and Mrs C arent automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out requirements for 
banks to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. So, in line with this, I think 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
And so Ive also considered whether Nationwide should have identified that Mr B and Mrs C 
were potentially at risk of fraud as a result of this payment.
The payment was for what I consider to be a significant amount of money. It was for a 
significantly larger amount than any other payment made out of the account in the previous 
months. And it used up a significant proportion of the available balance in the account. So I 
think Nationwide should have identified that Mr B and Mrs C could be at risk of financial 
harm from fraud as a result of it, and carried out additional checks before allowing it to go 
through.
Its not for our service to dictate the checks Nationwide should do or the questions it should 
ask. But banks should take steps designed to protect their customers from the risk of 
financial harm. And, in these circumstances and given the size of this payment, I think it 
would be reasonable to expect those checks to include questions about the purpose of the 
payment and then follow-up questions about the purpose of the payment Mr B and Mrs C 
then gave.
As the payment was made in branch, Nationwide has sent us a copy of the form that was 
filled in at the time. Its also said Mr B and Mrs C were asked about the payment and said it 
was for home improvements and that they hadnt received any instructions about making it. 
And its said it could see the payment was going to an account in Mr Bs own name and that 
Mr B and Mrs C were read a warning that they shouldnt make the payment if they had been 
contacted unexpectedly or told their account was at risk.
But I dont think these checks or warnings went far enough to address the risk I think 
Nationwide should have identified. The form that was filled in doesnt mention anything about 
possible scams. The warning Nationwide says Mr B and Mrs C were given wasnt specific or 
relevant to their circumstances. And the explanation for the payment Nationwide was given 
was vague.
Given the size of the payment, I dont think Nationwide should have been satisfied with the 
explanation of home improvements and should have asked further follow-up questions to 
get more detail and satisfy itself that Mr B and Mrs C werent the victims of a scam.
I appreciate that Mr B and Mrs C misled it about the purpose of the payment, as it was for an 
investment rather than for home improvements. But Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr B 
and Mrs C were given a significant cover story or coached through making the payment  
they were just told not to say it was for cryptocurrency. So I think if Nationwide had asked 
follow-up questions, they wouldnt have been able to give much more detail about things like 
what work was being done or details of the builders they were using. And I dont think they would have been able to give an adequate explanation of why money for home 
improvements had to be sent to a different account in Mr Cs own name.
So, if Nationwide had asked follow-up questions, I think the fact the payment was actually 
being made to fund an investment would likely have been uncovered. And as there were a 
number of potential red flags about the investment, such as the investment company not 
being regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Mr B and Mrs C not having direct 
access to their funds, I think the scam would then have been uncovered too.
I also think if Nationwides warnings had been clearer  for example, saying that a genuine 
business would never ask you to mislead your bank about the purpose for a payment  then 
this could also have uncovered the scam.
So if Nationwide had done more to try to protect Mr B and Mrs C, as I think it should have, I 
dont think they would have made this payment or lost this money. So I think Nationwide 
should bear some responsibility for the money they lost.
Nationwide has said the payment was sent to an account with another bank Mr B had 
access to, before it was then sent on to the scammers. And it argues that this breaks the 
chain of causation and it wouldnt be fair to hold it responsible. But I dont agree. I think 
Nationwide would have been in a position to prevent Mr B and Mrs Cs loss if it had done 
what Id expect. Its responsibilities dont end just because a customer sends funds to 
another account in their own name. And I think it is foreseeable that Mr B and Mrs C could 
send funds to another account they had access to before sending them to a scammer, as 
this is fairly common in scams like this.
So I dont think the payment going to another account Mr B had access to means it would be 
unfair to hold Nationwide responsible here, and I still think Nationwide should bear some 
responsibility for the money Mr B and Mrs C lost.
Should Mr B and Mrs C bear some responsibility for their loss?
Ive also considered whether Mr B and Mrs C should bear some responsibility for the loss 
they suffered. And while I appreciate that this was a cruel and sophisticated scam and that 
the scammers pressured them into making payments, I think there were a number of things 
about what was happening or what they were told that should have caused them significant 
concern.
Mr B and Mrs C dont appear to have had a clear understanding of how the investments they 
were making worked. In their discussions with both Nationwide and our service, there seems 
to be some confusion about exactly what they were investing in, how the profit was 
supposed to be generated and why the funds for the investments needed to be sent 
between several accounts before being sent to the investment company. And, given the 
amount of money they were investing, I think its reasonable to expect them to have had 
more of an understanding of this before sending the money.
They also dont appear to have been sent any documents or paperwork about the 
investment company or the investments they were making, which I would have expected a 
legitimate company to provide. So I think this should have caused them some concern.
And they were told some of the investments they were making would more than double in 
value over just a few days. And I dont think this is a realistic return, particularly with no 
apparent risk of loss. So I think this should have caused Mr B and Mrs C significant concern 
that what they were being told was too good to be true.I appreciate that Mr B and Mrs C checked reviews for the investment company before 
investing, but I dont think the seemingly genuine information they were given or saw from 
these reviews should have been enough to overcome the concerns I think they should have 
had. So I think it would be fair and reasonable for them to bear some responsibility for the 
loss they suffered.
And so I think it would be fair for Nationwide to refund 50% of the money Mr B and Mrs C 
lost.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building 
Society to:
Refund Mr B and Mrs C 50% of the money they lost  totalling £12,500
Pay 8% simple interest a year on that refund, from the date of the payment until the 
date of the refund
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman