DRN-1197612
 
The complaint
Miss J complains that Black Horse Limited wrote to her threatening to repossess the vehicle 
shed acquired through a hire purchase agreement it had financed. She wants 
compensation.
 What happened
Miss J is represented by a friend, Mr V. But for ease of reading Ill mostly refer to her.
Miss J tells us she took out a hire purchase agreement in 2015. But she says she later 
entered an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). In June 2019 she states that she 
received a letter from Black Horse saying it intended to repossess her vehicle. Miss J says 
the hire purchase payments were never part of the IVA. She felt the letter was confusing. 
And as a result she settled the agreement rather than just continue with the usual monthly 
payment. 
Black Horse told us that in June 2019 it had discovered that Miss J had entered an IVA over 
two years earlier. It said a regulatory letter was automatically issued to her. It said this had 
informed Miss J that under the terms of the finance agreement the IVA could result in the 
vehicle being repossessed. It said Miss J had later settled the agreement in full. Black Horse 
admitted that it had made errors. It accepted that during its enquiry into Miss Js complaint 
calls hadnt always been followed up. It said it had paid Miss J £50 in recognition of this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that Black Horse 
had acted within the terms of the agreement in writing about the potential effect of the IVA. 
He said that Black Horse had acknowledged errors in failing to make return calls as 
promised. But he thought the £50 it had paid was fair and reasonable. And he wouldnt be 
asking it to do anything else.
Miss J didn't agree with this outcome. As it's not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman's been asked to make the final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss J would be upset to receive a letter indicating her vehicle was to 
be repossessed. And as hire purchase agreements - a form of secured debt - can't be 
included in IVA's I understand why the letter may have caused confusion.
But under the terms of the hire purchase agreement Black Horse was permitted to terminate 
it if Miss J entered an IVA. This is a right which arises upon the making of the IVA even 
though the hire purchase agreement itself doesn't form part of the IVA. This service is not the regulator for the finance industry and as such I can't instruct Black 
Horse about the contents of letters it sends to its customers. But I accept that the wording of 
the letter might've caused Miss J to think she'd be at risk of losing her vehicle.
It contained the following passage:
"and on 14th July 2019 we intend to terminate your agreement and to recover possession of 
the goods specified above".
The letter did go on to explain that this couldn't happen without a court order.
Following the receipt of the letter Miss J asked for details of how to settle the agreement. 
And she subsequently paid the required sum and became the owner of the vehicle.
Following the receipt of the complaint Black Horse accepts that return calls weren't made as 
should've been expected. And I think it was fair for it to offer compensation for this failure in 
service standards.
I don't find that Black Horse did anything wrong in saying it would pay the £50 compensation 
into Miss J's account. As she's subject of the IVA, "windfall" payments have to be notified to 
the insolvency practitioner. So I can't think of any plausible reason why Black Horse 
shouldn't make the payment direct to Miss J's account.
I accept the level of compensation is below what Miss J thinks she should receive. But the 
purpose of compensation isn't to punish a business.  It's to offer some degree of 
recompense for a customer for any upset or inconvenience experienced as a result of 
service failures. Here I think most of the stress experienced by Miss J arose from the 
contents of the regulatory letter. And as I've previously stated I don't think Black Horse was 
wrong to send this. It was potentially entitled to end the agreement when it found Miss J had 
entered an IVA.
In summary,  I consider the payment made by Black Horse was fair and reasonable to reflect 
the  errors it made in terms of the unsatisfactory level of customer service. And I shan't be 
asking it to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I'm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman