DRN-1612028
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy UK Insurance Limited has registered a non-fault car accident on The 
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) which he says led to other insurers offering him 
higher quotes and UKI no longer offering him an insurance policy. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said UKI correctly registered 
the non-fault claim as notification only on CUE. He added that after listening to the sales call 
UKI hadnt treated Mr M unfairly when it decided not to offer him another insurance policy. 
So, he didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. 
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he didnt 
think it was fair he was now going to have to pay much higher premiums with other insurers 
and UKI had discriminated against him by not offering him another policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr M feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered the evidence and Im satisfied that UKI was right to register the non-
fault claim on the CUE database. It has also correctly logged this as a notification only, 
which is standard industry practice and what this service would expect it to do. 
Mr M is unhappy that the information on the CUE has meant his premiums with other 
insurers have increased and UKI refused to offer him a quote. I cant comment on the quotes 
Mr M has received because they are from other insurers with different underwriting criteria. 
But Ive reviewed the call from UKI where it considered Mr Ms details and then told him it 
couldnt offer him a quote for a new policy. UKI has provided its underwriting criteria which 
confirms it wasnt prepared to offer him a quote based upon the details he gave. Having 
reviewed this information, Im satisfied UKI hasnt treated him unfairly or discriminated 
against him. 
Im satisfied UKI correctly added the information to the CUE database and didnt discriminate 
against Mr M when it refused to offer him a quote. So, Im not going to ask UKI to take any 
further action here. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman