DRN-2633329
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Al Rayan Bank PLC (ARB) failed to process her standing order.
What happened
On 1 October 2020, Ms S contacted ARB and instructed them to amend an existing standing 
order amount from £80 to £150. ARB replied to her the same day confirming theyd actioned 
her request. Ms S has explained the standing order was to an account she has with another 
bank. She intended to use the funds to pay a direct debit from that account. 
Ms S says she realised there was a problem when she received a message from her other 
bank stating that she had insufficient funds to pay the direct debit. Due to this, shed entered 
an unplanned overdraft. 
She arranged to transfer funds from a different account and the direct debit was paid. Ms S 
complained to ARB. She explained she had a similar issue with standing orders previously 
and she was given £150 compensation in resolution of that complaint. She asked ARB to 
compensate her with the same amount again.
ARB admitted the standing order wasnt paid due to an internal processing error. They 
apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms S and said theyd pass 
feedback to the relevant team manager. 
They said they couldnt agree to pay £150 compensation as the issue Ms S had previously 
wasnt comparable due to the number of standing orders involved. They paid £25 
compensation and offered to reimburse Ms S with any charges she incurred on her other 
bank account.
Ms S remained unhappy and referred her complaint to our service. She explained she was a 
first-time mother and this issue caused her a great deal of panic, stress and inconvenience. 
She felt £75 would be a suitable amount of compensation. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and felt ARB had already put things right fairly. She 
didnt think they needed to take any further action. Ms S disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Ms S had a similar issue with her standing orders previously. But this has 
already been considered by our service separately under a different complaint. So, I wont 
be taking it into account as part of this complaint. Ill only be looking at the problem Ms S had 
with her standing order in October 2020 and how it impacted her.
Ms S asked ARB to amend her standing order well in advance of its due date. ARB 
confirmed theyd actioned the request and Ms S had no reason to believe there would be an 
issue with the standing order. She was only made aware of the problem when she was 
contacted by her other bank, and I can understand why this wouldve caused her some 
stress and worry. 
ARB have already accepted the standing order wasnt paid due to an internal error on their 
part. Ive thought about how this impacted Ms S. 
She was able to quickly resolve the issue by transferring money from another account. The 
direct debit was paid on time and Ms S didnt incur any charges as a result of entering an 
unplanned overdraft. Shes also confirmed there wasnt any impact on her credit file. 
I agree Ms S shouldnt have had to deal with ARBs mistake in the first place, but theyve 
apologised for their error, passed feedback to the relevant manager and offered to cover any 
charges. These are all the steps Id expect them to take in this situation.
I accept Ms S was stressed but this was short-lived. I also think she has been caused some 
inconvenience. All things considered though, I dont feel the impact on Ms S is significant 
enough to ask ARB to pay more compensation. I think £25 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And I note Ms S initially accepted this amount too. 
Overall, Im satisfied ARB have resolved the complaint fairly, so I wont be asking them to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman