DRN-2134070
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice Eastmills Limited (Eastmills) gave to transfer the deferred 
benefits in his occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
In December 2016, Mr P was introduced to Eastmills after hed been in contact with another 
business, referred to in this decision as Firm C. Firm C was authorised by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to provide investment advice, but it wasnt permitted to give 
pension transfer advice. Firm C was paid by Mr P and Firm C paid part of this fee - £2,846 - 
to Eastmills for its advice.
After meeting with Eastmills and discretionary fund managers (DFM) from Firm Q, Eastmills 
produced a suitability report setting out its advice. In summary, the report and fact find stated 
the following about Mr Ps circumstances.
He was 54 years old. Although employed and earning approximately £102,000 a year 
plus a £30,000 bonus he was going to be redundant by the end of January 2017.
He was married with two non-dependent, adult sons.
He owned his own home valued at £620,000, with an outstanding mortgage of 
£340,000 due to end in 2034. Half of this was an interest only mortgage and the total 
monthly payment was £1,250.
He was in good health but had recently had a report to say his lungs were in the 
condition of someone 10 years older, 64 and had high cholesterol. He also told 
Eastmills he was an ex-smoker.
He had no intention of working until hes 65 and wanted to access his fund prior to 60 
although he wouldnt need the income from it for some years. 
He had cash savings of £15,000, investments of £20,000 and a life assurance policy 
with cover of £250,000 which was due to expire in 2024. His wife had £60,000 in 
cash savings and the same life assurance policy as Mr P.
With his current employer, he also had a pension valued at £330,000 (made up of 
roughly half in a credit account which wasnt subject to investment fluctuations and 
provided secure and guaranteed benefits and half in an investment account).
Regarding Mr Ps OPS, the report explains:
His OPS was projected to pay an income of £41,293 from age 65  the normal 
retirement age of the scheme - and a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) of 
£275,269. If age 60, this would be an income of £29,478 from age 60 and a PCLS of 
£196,520.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) was £891,056.17.
Mr Ps Objectives and Priorities were listed in the report as follows:
Pay off his mortgage.
Have full flexible access to his pension fund.
Have simplicity and control the management of the fund by an agreed approach 
using a DFM. 
His highest priority was to consider the transfer of the OPS to a PPP while the 
transfer value is higher and before the guaranteed transfer value period runs out in 
February 2017.
The report also listed various reasons for Mr P wanting to make the transfer and Eastmills 
recommending the transfer. These included the following:
Taking advantage of the enhancements being offered to transfer out of the OPS and 
the window of opportunity that might not return. 
Risk of a future reduction in fund transfer values.
Take his benefits prior to age 60 to pay off his mortgage.
Accessing ad hoc withdrawals and vary income.
Death benefits for Mrs P are more flexible and can be left in trust for his children.
Hes mindful of any future health changes and wish to provide as much protection as 
you can.
A DFM will give more benefit and greater flexibility.
He wanted the flexibility to access money if he wanted to work abroad after 55.
He has a reasonable capacity for short term loss as hes not dependent on the 
income which would be provided for some years and will have other sources of 
income in retirement.
His financial plan is to live off the pension funds once he retires and accepts his fund 
may be used up prior to his death. It also said Mr Ps plan to live off his wifes income 
is further indication[he didnt] require a guaranteed income with reduced death 
benefits.
The report suggested Mr P had a medium attitude to risk which Eastmills said was enough 
for them to recommend a transfer out the OPS. And confirmed he wanted his pension to be 
managed in a low medium to medium way. 
The required growth rate (critical yield) needed for a new PPP to match the benefits Mr P 
was entitled to through his OPS was 9.5% if he took it age 60 and a growth rate of 6.9% if he 
took it at age 65. Eastmills explained it considered the rate of 6.9% to be a medium critical 
yield and it would be prepared to recommend a transfer based on this growth rate.
Having considered all the information, Eastmills recommended Mr P transfer his OPS to
a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Firm Q as a DFM. It was noted in the report 
under Reasons for my Recommendations that Mr P:
wanted to take the maximum tax-free cash (TFC); and 
intended to use the TFC from the OPS with his current employer when he turned 55 
to pay off the rest of his mortgage and be debt free.
Mr P accepted the advice to transfer the pension benefits and he was transferred out the 
scheme on 31 March 2017. Mr P then changed his mind and emailed the administrator of 
the OPS on 6 April 2017 to ask about reversing the transfer. On 10 April, the administrator 
confirmed it would seek advice from the OPS trustee. On 11 April, Mr P emailed the OPS 
explaining he no longer wanted to explore this option. Mr P has told our service he changed 
his mind as a result of a long phone conversation with Firm C where the advisor went 
through pension formulas and persuaded him to continue with the transfer.
Mr P complained to the OPS administrator about the amount of the CETV and lack of detail 
about how it was calculated. He also asked the OPS to consider reversing his decision to transfer out of the OPS. The OPS administrator looked into his complaint and, although it 
didnt uphold it, offered to allow Mr P back into the OPS in May 2018. However, he says the 
scheme would only give him a re-joining pension of £24,900 a year payable at 60 years old. 
Mr P took his complaint to the pensions ombudsman and a decision was issued in March 
2019 which didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr P complained to Firm C and Eastmills about various matters connected with the advice 
he was given to transfer out the OPS. This complaint is about Eastmills and so Ive focused 
on their response. Eastmills rejected Mr Ps complaint, stating it had given suitable advice 
which met Mr Ps needs and objectives, in a clear way. Amongst other things Eastmills 
referred to Mr Ps experience and knowledge. 
Mr P contacted this service in October 2019. The main reasons for his complaint were:
Accepting the CETV for the benefits he had in the OPS was a poor and high-risk 
decision. And he wasnt aware that a significant deduction was made when OPSs 
calculate the CETV.
The suitability report was biased in favour of a transfer  it didnt adequately justify 
the recommendation to transfer nor balance this with the significant benefits hed be 
losing. Instead it plays back to him his own views and thoughts. And key facts which 
supported him remaining in the OPS  such as the government protection for his type 
of OPS  werent mentioned.
His mortgage was affordable with a low interest rate and he had adequate protection 
at the time which would mean that the mortgage wouldve been affordable even in 
retirement. He also felt alternatives werent considered sufficiently.
The report failed to accurately explain the benefits for his wife if he remained in the 
OPS but subsequently passed away. For example, shed get 50% of his pension 
irrespective of any PCLS hed taken.
His risk appetite wasnt accurately reflected once his pension became his only source 
of income and there werent any projections based on realistic investment return 
scenarios.
An investigator at our service looked into matters and upheld this complain. In summary, it 
was for the following reasons.
Given the starting point for OPS transfer advice is to consider it to be unsuitable. 
Eastmills didnt demonstrate it was suitable advice to make the transfer.
There was insufficient evidence to demonstrate the transfer of Mr Ps OPS benefits 
was in his best interests. 
Had Eastmills advised against the OPS transfer, he didnt think Mr P wouldve 
insisted to go against the advice.
Given Mr Ps circumstances at the time of advice, such a significant decision ought to 
have been deferred until his future employment was better understood. And he didnt 
feel other options had been sufficiently considered.
Our investigator set out how Eastmills needed to put things right in relation to the pension 
and also recommended it pay Mr P compensation of £350 for the upset caused. 
Mr P accepts the investigators view.
Eastmills disagrees. It makes a number of points as set out below. 
The investigator hadnt highlighted several things including:othe note on the fact find which said 55 to 60 is vital which meant Mr P 
wanted the prospect of access to the monies during this period. 
oThe importance of inheritance to his sons  25 and 28  who had low income 
prospects and wouldve had no benefit from the OPS. 
oMr P had said this is money for nothing.
It didnt discuss with Mr P his change of mind after effecting the transfer and so it isnt 
responsible for Mr P cancelling the option of reversing the transfer which, at that 
time, Eastmills believes couldve given him a full reinstatement of benefits. And says 
if this wasnt permitted due to contradictions in the scheme rules and transfer offer, 
this wouldnt be a complaint against them but the scheme administrator.
It gave numerous risk warnings in the report.
It didnt agree this was something Mr P shouldve waited to do. This is because Mr P 
had requested redundancy in 2015 and three CETV quotations, so it wasnt a 
surprise and hed been preparing for this long before asking Eastmills for advice.
Mr P was unhappy with the OPS provider and this is clear from the letter he sent 
them querying how the CETV had been calculated. 
The basis of all contracts is of utmost good faith and yet Mr P failed to tell them 
about an accident he had in December 2016 and medication he was on which he 
says affected his judgement.
Emails Mr P had with Firm C were significant as they show the full context of Mr Ps 
decision to transfer and required this service to obtain this information from Firm C.
Eastmills went on to make the following further points:
It was made clear the default position is not to transfer.
Mr P understood the course of action he was planning to take very well and wanted 
to take a full role in the management of his fund.
As a result of his redundancy, Mr P wanted to give up full time work and therefore 
had a need to access his fund at 55. This was also caused by him not being in the 
best of health.
As he was planning to finish work in 2017, there was a need to pay off the interest 
only part of his mortgage. It would clear the debt and remove an expenditure for the 
next 17 years. He didnt have alternatives to allow him to do this.
The maximum tax-free cash wasnt available by remaining with his OPS at 55 and 
the offer from the OPS at 55 was unattractive. Mr P was very clear that he wanted to 
access the fund prior to age 60 and therefore Eastmills used both 60 and 65 to reflect 
that he wanted to take his benefits much earlier than 65.
Mr P dismissed the option of life cover, not because it was too expensive but as it 
didnt suit his main purpose of accessing his fund after his 55th birthday and certainly 
prior to the age 60.
Death benefits were important to him and he wanted to leave his pension to his sons 
who werent likely to be large earners, which wouldnt have been possible in the 
OPS. Also, Mr P didnt think hed get full value from the pension due to his life 
expectancy. 
Notwithstanding Eastmills view that the advice was suitable, Mr P had the option to 
stop the transfer and chose not to take it.
After communicating with Eastmills and asking Firm C for information, the investigator 
explained this didnt change his view. This is for the following reasons. 
The OPS make clear that once the transfer was paid, their liability had been 
discharged  a reversal wasnt permitted  and the Pensions Ombudsman didnt find 
the OPS had made any errors. Therefore, the liability for Mr Ps transfer out the OPS 
lies with Eastmills and whether the advice given to transfer out was suitable.Whilst there were comments in the fact find that Mr P considered the pension 
benefits to have been money for nothing, the adviser needed to determine if he had 
the capacity to lose a substantial amount of his pension benefits. And the comment 
was at odds with Mr Ps actual financial position - it was a considerable portion of his 
overall wealth and significantly impacted his standard of living in retirement.
Eastmills shouldve considered the transfer when it was clear that Mr P was going to 
take benefits from it. At that time, it couldve compared the benefit which could be 
taken from the scheme against what couldve been achieved from a PPP. This is 
particularly as the CETV wasnt generous and his employment was about to change 
through redundancy. Time was needed to allow this to settle and for Mr P to decide if 
he actually needed to access the benefits - he may have only been thinking about 
contingencies because his circumstances were uncertain.
Any desire Mr P had to benefit his sons in the future had to be balanced against his 
own finances which wouldve substantially relied on the OPS benefits hed accrued.
Despite the warnings, the advice was to transfer without clear reasoning as to why 
Mr P should expect to receive lower pension benefits as a result. And stating the 
yield is higher than we would be comfortable with isnt a sufficient risk warning about 
the consequences of the transfer.
Firm C were contacted for the correspondence it had with Mr P and the extracts sent 
to our service were reviewed but they didnt change the investigators view.
The retention of the part of the pension Mr P had with his current employer which 
offered guaranteed benefits shows that he wanted to retain secure benefits and that 
these were important to him.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing this, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the relevant time.
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ps knowledge and understanding
Firstly, I think its important to deal with the points Eastmills has raised about Mr Ps level of 
knowledge and understanding of the transfer and its impact. It isnt disputed that Mr P 
worked in financial services and had some knowledge about financial matters. I also 
understand Mr P was clearly interested in transferring and I can see hed have come across 
as confident and knowledgeable and, at least in principle, as someone who had already 
decided what he wanted to do. 
However, it was Eastmills role to not just transact what Mr P might have thought he wanted 
to do, but to give him objective advice on whether a transfer was in his best interest. 
Advising on final salary transfers is a specialist area and requires qualifications that not all financial advisers have. And its only certain firms that hold the necessary permissions from 
the regulator to advise in this area. 
Mr P had gone to Eastmills for advice which it needed to ensure was suitable. And he paid 
for the advice as a retail client and is entitled to full regulatory protection as a result.
Suitability
A defined benefit OPS has significant benefits and guarantees. Therefore, giving up the 
benefits and guarantees available under it, and subjecting future pension income to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns, should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer.
The Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the regulators handbook set out the rules 
regulated businesses have to follow which support this. The COBS guidance at the time of 
the advice which is particularly relevant here stated the following.
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension schemewhether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm 
should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A 
firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can 
clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-
out is in the client's best interests. (COBS 19.1.6G)
Given what the regulator says, the starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
There will need to be good reasons why a transfer will be in the consumers best interests. A 
key consideration is if theres a reasonable prospect that the new arrangement will provide 
better retirement benefits. The transfer also needs to be suitable considering the individuals 
circumstances.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The critical yield is an indicator of whether a transfer is financially viable. I think the position 
with the critical yield in this matter is unclear from the report. The investment return (critical 
yield) required to match the occupational pension at retirement (at age 60) was quoted as 
9.5% per year. It also says the critical yield required for a joint policy is 13.2% pa. As this is 
required to replicate the spousal benefits in the OPS, this is the correct value that should 
have been used for Mr P. In contrast, the focus of the report and comparison to Mr Ps 
attitude to risk was the critical yield needed to match the benefits he had at age 65 which 
was considerably lower at 6.9% pa. But this doesnt reflect the actual time Eastmills say Mr 
P wanted to retire which was before age 60 and this was also for a single policy. Its also not 
clear to me if the rates take into account all the charges, including the DFMs. If it had done 
so and been calculated for a joint policy before age 60, the critical yield referred to in the 
report would be higher. Even so, the lowest critical yield referred to by Eastmills  albeit for a 
single person retiring at age 65  is still significantly higher than the comparable growth rate 
of 3.1% for a retirement age of 60 and 3.8% for age 65. Mr P wanted his investments to be 
managed in a low medium to medium way, so I dont think its likely he would have been 
able to achieve more than the discount rate. So, even when using the most favourable - but 
incorrect  critical yield referred to by Eastmills, Mr P was likely going to be financially 
significantly worse off by transferring out the OPS.Im aware that, based on the comments on the fact find document, Eastmills considers that 
Mr P saw this pension as a bonus and that he had quite a high capacity for loss. However, I 
havent seen any detailed discussions about what income Mr P would actually require in 
retirement. So its unclear how Eastmill could come to this conclusion. The benefits from the 
OPS made up the majority of his retirement provision and Mr P was reliant on this. Even 
though I appreciate he had another pension, his wifes income and once he had paid off his 
mortgage he would have no debts, I dont think its likely he had the capacity to take 
substantial risk with his OPS benefits. Mr P was 54, with  as Eastmills explains - a desire to 
retire before 60. Rather than view the OPS as money for nothing, the consumer shouldve 
been made aware that the scheme offered him an opportunity to provide a more secure 
retirement with substantial guaranteed benefits and a transfer would leave him financially 
worse off. Eastmills didnt do this.
Eastmills say its advice was suitable based on, amongst other things, Mr Ps intentions for 
accessing his pension benefits to pay off half of his mortgage and his desire to provide death 
benefits for his family. However, whilst I appreciate the critical yield isnt the only factor, if a 
transfer was unlikely to result in improved benefits and very likely would result in lower 
benefits, I consider the reasons to justify a transfer would have to be particularly persuasive.  
A driver for the transfer was Mr Ps wish to pay off his mortgage at age 55 and I can 
understand why this wouldve sounded attractive. But that wasnt a necessity  the mortgage 
wasnt due to be repaid until Mr P was over 70  and so the question is whether this was 
more important than having a secure and higher income in retirement. And this hasnt been 
demonstrated by B. Theres also no evidence that mortgage payments could not be met 
going forward or whether reducing the mortgage by using the lump sum from his other 
pension wouldve been sufficient. Even so, the plan, as advised, wouldve meant that he 
initially paid the interest only part of his mortgage. He then needed to also take a tax-free 
sum from his current employers pension to pay off the remainder of the mortgage. It also 
isnt clear whether early repayment charges and interest rates on the borrowing had been 
factored into the advice.
Eastmills say taking early retirement from his employers scheme wouldnt have provided 
enough tax-free cash to pay off the mortgage. But, as Ive said above, Id question whether 
he really needed to use the tax-free cash to pay off his mortgage at that point and, even if 
this is what he wanted to do, whether his objective to pay off his mortgage early - particularly 
the interest only part - couldnt have been met differently, for example, using his other 
pension, savings and redundancy payment. Particularly - as Eastmills say in the suitability 
report  that he didnt need to rely on the income for some years.
I note the report says his objectives were to have full flexible access to his pension fund as 
well as the simplicity and being able to control the management of the fund by an agreed 
approach using a DFM. I cant see it has been demonstrated why Mr P needed flexibility. 
Even so, he was able to have this in other ways, for example, with his other pension. 
In addition to his other pension, it seems to me that, once Mr P secured new employment, 
directing money towards paying off the mortgage outside of his pension fund by using the 
savings he had, the substantial redundancy payment he was due to receive of around 
£40,000 and also further overpaying the mortgage may have made sense. It might have 
made sense for him to use his current employers pension to support him in doing this. And I 
cant see this option was explored.
Whilst I can see itd be attractive to Mr P to retire early, I cant see Eastmills explored how he 
could potentially bridge the years until 60 and then receive a large sum from the OPS to pay 
off the majority of the mortgage as well as having secure income going forward. Theres a lack of proper income requirement planning. Eastmills doesnt seem to have discussed with 
Mr P whether he might be better off waiting until he was closer to his intended retirement 
date. Or at least postponing any decision until his employment situation was more certain. I 
dont think the fact that Mr P had known hed be made redundant for some time means he 
shouldnt have waited until his position was more certain before making such a significant 
decision. Eastmills suggest Mr P was concerned there was a window of opportunity where 
transfer values are high and the opportunity might have less generous enhancements if 
delayed. But its not clear whether this is Mr Ps concern as a result of the advice he was 
receiving. In fact emphasis in my opinion should have been on the fact that retirement 
benefits in the new plan would be lower than in the OPS.
Im also concerned that the report says Mr Ps fund will likely be used up before his death. 
But Eastmills didnt appear to establish itself what Mr Ps future liabilities and income 
requirements were likely to be. So I dont know how it could say with confidence that 
transferring was necessary to meet his future income needs or that he wasnt likely to be 
heavily dependent on his OPS in retirement. This also contradicts the advice to transfer out 
so he could leave the pension to his sons  if it was used up in his lifetime, there would be 
nothing to pass to them on his death.
The fact find and report show death benefits were an important feature to Mr P. Mrs P was a 
similar age and I can understand why providing support for her in the event of his death was 
naturally important. Although the report uses the death benefits for his wife and adult 
children as a justification for recommending the transfer, the report also said Mr P and his 
wife planned to live on the income from his wifes defined benefits pension suggesting she 
had little need for this. Even so, I think a guaranteed widows pension of 50% wouldve been 
attractive and provided security for Mrs P in the event of Mr Ps death. 
While I understand Mr P wanted to provide for his sons in the event of his death, this had to 
be weighed against the likelihood of this happening early enough to be a significant benefit, 
along with the actual benefits being given up. And what was being considered was Mr Ps 
pension provision and whether he ought to be advised to give up valuable guaranteed 
benefits when his employment position and his ability to make further pension provision 
wasnt certain. His sons werent financially dependent upon him and most of his mortgage 
was covered by a life policy. So his wife would already be receiving a largely mortgage free 
property which couldve been passed onto their sons in the event of her death. He also had 
another pension which couldve been utilised to give his sons a benefit in the event of his 
death without giving up the significant security he had in this OPS. I cant see this was 
considered. 
Further, the longer Mr P lived, the more of his pension he would spend, thereby reducing the 
fund which could be passed on. For his sons to receive a large lump sum, Mr P wouldve 
had to die in the early years of his retirement, and I havent seen any reason to believe this 
was likely. 
I note Eastmills say Mr P dismissed the option of life cover as it didnt suit his main purpose 
of accessing his fund between 55 and 60. But, as Ive explained above, I cant see there was 
a pressing need for him to do this. And life cover wouldve given his sons a cash sum in the 
event of his death. However, as Mr P would have likely used at least some of this fund 
during his lifetime and had other assets which couldve been left to his sons, I dont consider 
a life assurance policy for the full amount of his CETV was an appropriate comparable. I 
cant see other more balanced options were explored. This was always going to be a 
disproportionately expensive option and therefore unattractive. 
The main purpose for a pension is to provide an income in retirement. Other considerations, 
like death benefits, are secondary to that, particularly when there was nothing to suggest Mr P was in such a state of ill health that he wouldve only relied on the pension for a short time 
or even passed away before taking it. I cant see a significant need for a larger inheritance 
which would outweigh the risk of a lower standard of living for Mr P in his retirement and was 
likely to have been used up by Mr P in his retirement anyway. I understand hed had a test 
which revealed he had the lungs of someone 10 years older and high cholesterol. But, at the 
time of the advice, there were no immediate signs Mr Ps health would decline so much that 
he was likely to die before or shortly after taking his pension. If his health declined later, he 
couldve transferred out of the scheme at that point. Or looked into taking early retirement 
due to ill health. 
Finally, I note Eastmills say they pointed out numerous risks to Mr P and made clear the 
starting point is that a transfer out of an OPS shouldnt be advised. But pointing out these 
differences doesnt make unsuitable advice suitable. And Eastmills ultimately advised Mr P 
to transfer out the OPS. 
Summary
Eastmills needs to show the advice it gave Mr P was suitable and in his best interests. I dont 
think it has. As Ive said, Mr P was clearly interested in transferring, but I dont think his 
reasons for wanting to transfer were necessarily justified. Nor were any alternatives explored 
in a detailed or credible way. And I dont think he had the capacity for loss to risk the majority 
of his pension provision. I say particularly when he was in an uncertain position and it didnt 
seem the right time to make such decisions.
So, for the reasons Ive set out, I dont think the advice was suitable and Im upholding the 
complaint. Eastmills must redress Mr P as set out below.
I note Mr P says any payments into his pension would have implications on his Lifetime 
Transfer Allowance. The below redress covers the situation if this issue comes up and 
confirms that a cash payment direct to Mr P, adjusted as set out, can be made.
As a complex calculation is required, the amount of the redress payment (if any) cant be 
estimated. But, given the size of the transfer value, the amount could be large. So, Ive said 
what should happen if the redress is more than £160,000 which is the maximum award I can 
make (in a case such as this where the date of the act or omission was before 1 April 2019 
and the complaint was referred to us on or after that date).
Mr Ps request to reverse the transfer
Eastmills say any loss Mr P has suffered was as a result of his failure to continue with the 
request to the OPS to reverse his transfer. But, taking into account the pensions 
ombudsmans decision and the letters Ive seen from the OPS, I dont agree. The pension 
ombudsman decided the OPS hadnt done anything wrong stating the scheme rules dont 
allow a cancellation of the transfer without trustee discretion and that Mr P could only 
reverse the transfer by transferring back into the scheme. So I dont think I could fairly or 
reasonably say it was more likely than not hed have been allowed back into the scheme or, 
even if he was, this wouldve been on the terms that he left it. 
I think its fair to judge Mr Ps complaint based on whether he shouldve been advised to 
transfer when he did. And, for the reasons set out above, I dont think he was. 
Firm C
I note Eastmills was keen for our service to obtain information from Firm C which it 
considered would show the full context of Mr Ps decision to transfer including his circumstances and requirements as well as his desire to draw benefits before age 60. Ive 
already addressed these points in the findings above having considered everything Firm C 
sent us. Even so, I think its important to explain the main focus in this complaint is the 
advice Eastmills gave to Mr P, what this was based on and any loss arising from the same. 
And the extracts of emails Firm C have sent us dont change my decision in this matter that 
the advice given to Mr P was unsuitable. 
I note that Firm C say Mr P was corresponding with them for months after the transfer to 
discuss his most recent employers pension and what he intended to do with this. They say 
this shows he wasnt unhappy and didnt want to reverse the transfer. But Mr P told us hed 
been reassured by Firm C that he didnt need to reverse the transfer in April 2017. So, I dont 
find it surprising that hed continue to have these sorts of conversations. As far as I can see 
from the minimal extracts provided, this followed the advice hed been given and plans that 
had been made with Eastmills.
Turning now to the issue Eastmills has raised about whether, but for Firm Cs involvement, 
Mr P wouldve continued with his decision to reverse the transfer out the OPS and therefore 
not suffered a loss. Ive thought very carefully about this but it doesnt change the outcome in 
this matter. Even if Firm C did something wrong, Id then need to consider whether this has 
caused the loss which Mr P has suffered or prevented him from successfully mitigating that 
loss. To find in Eastmills favour on this point, Id need to find it more likely the scheme 
wouldve taken Mr P back into the scheme and allowed him to have the same benefits hed 
left behind. But I dont think I could reasonably or fairly say this was more likely to have been 
the position in April 2017. The schemes decision is a matter for its discretion and that is, by 
its very nature, unpredictable. However, given what the scheme did after April 2017 and the 
time and complaints it took before it offered to allow Mr P back into the scheme and the 
reduced benefits offered to him, it doesnt seem to me that I could safely say his request to 
reverse the transfer was more likely to have been agreed in April 2017 had he proceeded 
with it. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest this wouldve been the case. 
In summary, I dont think theres anything that would allow me to safely say its more likely 
Mr P would now still have his OPS benefits but for the actions of Firm C. However, without 
the advice he had from Eastmills to transfer out the OPS, I consider Mr P wouldve remained 
in his OPS.  
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Eastmills must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.
Eastmills may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Ps contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ps SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ps pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr P within 90 days of the date 
Eastmills receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes 
Eastmills to pay Mr P.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: 
I require Eastmills to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Eastmills 
to pay Mr P any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Eastmills to pay 
Mr P any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation:
If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that Eastmills pays Mr P 
the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this 
balance to be paid to Mr P.
If Mr P accepts my decision, the money award is binding on Eastmills. My recommendation 
is not binding on Eastmills. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.
trouble and upset
I agree with the investigator that Eastmills should pay Mr P £350 compensation for the 
trouble and upset he has been caused in this matter as a result of the unsuitable advice. 
This has caused Mr P to take additional time to resolve the issue and must have been stressful and concerning when he realised the advice hed previously been given and 
accepted was unsuitable for him.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint. Eastmills Limited must put things 
right by redressing Mr P as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman