DRN-3150990
The complaint
Mr M has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited has unfairly refused 
to validate his claim for water damage at his property. 
What happened
In December 2020 Mr M reported a water leak in his home to AA Underwriting. Initially this 
was reported as storm damage to Mr Ms roof. But this was later amended, and the cause 
was explained as a leak from a header tank in the loft.
AA Underwriting attended Mr Ms property several times to inspect the damage and validate 
the claim. However, during these visits AA Underwriting has not been permitted to inspect 
the inside of the loft where the tank was located, or the roof above the damaged rooms.
AA Underwritings position is that it needs to carry out inspections to these areas in order to 
confirm that the loss should be covered under the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy. It 
says the property is in a poor condition overall and is showing signs of damp and mould 
which are unlikely to have been caused by this instance of water ingress alone. It also says 
that one of its field surveyors was involved in a previous claim for water damage which was 
cash settled, and he has suggested that previous repairs have not been carried out.
Mr Ms position is that AA Underwriting should be able to validate the loss based on the 
evidence it has already gathered. He says he isnt attempting to claim for areas of pre-
existing damage, only the damage caused by this instance of water ingress. 
AA Underwriting has said that Mr M has been abusive to its staff during previous visits. 
Based on this it took the decision to cancel Mr Ms policy. A complaint about this decision is 
being considered by our service separately. But, due to the history, AA Underwriting says 
that it will only agree to a further inspection if two surveyors attend together and can be 
equipped with body cameras.
Mr M doesnt want to allow a further site visit for several reasons. He says that previous 
surveyors have been rude, abusive and threatening towards him. He also says that following 
a previous visit some jewellery was stolen which he reported to the police. He says he is 
uncomfortable with two members of AA Underwriting (or its agents) staff visiting as he will 
feel outnumbered, vulnerable and at an increased risk of COVID. He also doesnt agree to 
surveyors wearing body cameras as he believes this could put his home at further risk of 
burglary in the future.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld. She said 
AA Underwriting hadnt been given the opportunity to inspect key areas of the property and 
so it wasnt unreasonable that it hadnt yet validated the claim. She said a further site visit 
with two surveyors wearing body cameras was a fair and reasonable way to move the claim 
forward.
Mr M initially agreed to this. But he subsequently decided that he wasnt happy with this 
outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider things. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Mr M has recently contacted our service and told us that he has been receiving 
threatening calls about his claim which he has reported to the police. He believes these calls 
have come from AA Underwriting or its agents. As these calls have only recently happened, 
they do not form part of this complaint and so I wont be commenting on them in this 
decision. Should Mr M wish to complain about these calls, he should contact 
AA Underwriting in the first instance.
The issues Ill be deciding here are whether AA Underwriting has acted unfairly in not 
validating the claim already, and whether its position that a further inspection is needed is 
fair and reasonable.
 
There are conflicting versions of events regarding what was said, and by who, during 
previous site visits. As I wasnt there it would be difficult to make a determination on this with 
any degree of certainty, even on balance. But I dont think this element of the complaint is 
key to determining a fair and reasonable outcome. So, instead, Ill focus on the elements 
which are.
AA Underwritings surveyor has stated that from the inspections that have been able to be 
carried out, the area of the first-floor landing where the old tank had been removed wasnt 
showing signs of any damage. The surveyor also stated that the damage inspected on the 
first floor of Mr Ms property appeared too extensive to have been caused by a recent 
escape of water. Based on this, he shared concerns that the damage had been ongoing over 
a longer period of time without mitigation from Mr M. For these reasons, the surveyor 
suggested that an inspection of the loft and the roof above the damaged rooms needed to be 
carried out before the claim could be validated. But to this point AA Underwriting hasnt had 
the opportunity to inspect either the loft or the roof.
Given the areas, and the reported cause, of damage, I think its important for 
AA Underwriting to be given this opportunity. I also note that the terms and conditions of 
Mr Ms policy clearly state that he must provide any help or information AA Underwriting 
requires in order to validate a claim. So, taking everything into account, I dont think 
AA Underwriting has acted unfairly or unreasonably by not validating the claim up to now.
AA Underwriting says that given the history of the claim it will only agree to a site visit if it 
can send two surveyors who must remain together at all times. It says this is in line with its 
normal policy and is for their health and safety. But it confirms that the surveyors will follow 
all COVID 19 protocols, including masks and social distancing, and that they will bring 
suitable photo identification with them. AA Underwriting has also disputed Mr Ms allegations 
regarding the previous behaviour of its staff and has highlighted that the police invited Mr M 
to withdraw his allegations of theft following their investigation, as there was no evidence to 
suggest wrongdoing on their part.Mr M remains uncomfortable with allowing a further visit by two surveyors, because he will 
feel outnumbered and vulnerable. Our investigator suggested that he could ask someone to 
accompany him, such as a friend or relative, or someone from a suitable charity or support 
service. She also pointed out that the body camera footage will serve as protection to all 
involved as it will record the visit.
Mr M also doesnt feel comfortable with allowing people to film inside his home. He says he 
knows someone who suffered a burglary shortly after allowing a company to do the same. 
He says he has received advice on this and been told that it is illegal to allow someone to 
film the inside of your home without the consent of the police. So, he isnt prepared to allow 
this to happen.
AA Underwriting says that allowing filming inside of a home is not a matter for the police, but 
rather the Information Commissioners Office (the UK Regulator for Data Protection). It has 
provided a document which sets out the responsibilities it will have for protecting Mr Ms data 
under the regulations.
Ive carefully considered the above concerns and arguments. Having done so, I think 
AA Underwriting have suggested a fair and reasonable way to move Mr Ms claim forward. I 
appreciate Mr Ms concerns about allowing two surveyors to visit. But Mr M is also able to be 
accompanied at the visit, to mitigate this, should he choose to be.
Mr M has made it clear that if a visit must go ahead, he doesnt want the previous surveyor 
to attend his home again. Given Mr Ms strength of feeling on this matter, and considering 
the reported history of the claim, I spoke with AA Underwriting to ask whether it would be 
prepared to send a different surveyor. 
AA Underwriting has explained that the construction of Mr Ms home is unusual, and the 
surveyors previous visits give him helpful insight into which areas will and wont need to be 
inspected during the follow up visit. It says sending a different surveyor would likely broaden 
the scope of the inspection, which is why it previously didnt agree to send an alternative 
surveyor. However, it has now said that it will be willing to do so, as a gesture of goodwill, so 
long as Mr M is prepared to allow the surveyors access to the areas of the property they 
need to inspect. I think this is a fair and reasonable compromise.
I also appreciate Mr Ms concerns about allowing filming at his home. However, given the 
reported history of previous visits, I agree that filming any further visits will be beneficial for 
all parties. This footage will protect not only AA Underwriting staff, but also Mr M. And 
although I know Mr M is concerned about what happened to his friend/acquaintance, I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that AA Underwriting wont protect his data (the 
footage) in line with its requirements under the relevant legislation/regulations. 
AA Underwriting has also pointed out that it is now its policy to utilise body cameras for all 
site visits  so this approach isnt unique to Mr Ms claim.
In summary, I dont think AA Underwriting has been unfair or unreasonable in not validating 
the claim. And I think it has made a fair and reasonable offer to move the claim forward  to 
complete a final site visit, where the key areas will be inspected, attended by two surveyors 
wearing body cameras. Should AA Underwriting be unable to carry out an inspection to 
these areas, it has explained that it will be forced to decline Mr Ms claim. I dont think this is 
an unreasonable position for it to take, in light of the circumstances.
So, taking all the above into account, I do not uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint about AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman