DRN-4408240
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard hasnt protected him 
from losing money to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mr S has explained that in June 2021 he made payments using his 
Barclays credit card for what he thought was a legitimate investment. Mr S made the 
payments from his Barclays credit card first to his Coinbase account, before moving them on 
from there to the scammers. The payments numbered two and were for £2,000 each on 
7 and 14 June 2021 respectively, with accompanying transaction fees of £119.60 taking the 
total amount to £4,119.60.
Mr S subsequently realised hed been scammed and got in touch with Barclays. Ultimately, 
Barclays didnt reimburse Mr Ss lost funds, and Mr S referred his complaint about Barclays 
to us. As our Investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold Mr Ss complaint for materially the same reasons 
as our Investigator. 
Im sorry if Mr S lost money to a scam. However, this doesnt automatically entitle him to a 
refund from Barclays. It would only be fair for me to tell Barclays to reimburse Mr S his loss 
(or part of it) if I thought Barclays reasonably ought to have prevented the payments (or part  
of them) in the first place, or Barclays unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds after the 
payments were made; and if I was satisfied, overall, this was a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Prevention
Im satisfied Mr S authorised the relevant card payments. Barclays would generally be 
expected to process payments a customer authorises it to make; and Mr S is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances where he authorised the payments. I 
appreciate Mr S has referred to the CRM code, but this wouldnt apply to these payments 
because the CRM code doesnt apply to card payments. That said, as a matter of good 
industry practice Barclays should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent 
transactions  particularly sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there are many payments made by 
customers each day and its not realistic or reasonable to expect a bank to stop and check 
every payment instruction. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that 
could potentially be fraudulent, and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. 
In this case, Barclays didnt pause either of the two payment instructions, pending enquiries 
with Mr S, before allowing the payments through. So, Ive considered whether I think 
Barclays ought reasonably to have done so. Both payments were for £2,000. I wouldnt say it 
was usual for Mr S to make payments for this amount from this account. However, as Ive 
said, theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and allowing customers ready access to their funds. Its a question of degree  
whether the payments were sufficiently unusual. And in this case, I dont think they were. Its 
not irregular for customers from time to time to use their credit cards to make occasional 
larger payments than normal. The two payments were spread a week apart. The payments 
were made to a merchant associated with cryptocurrency, and I note what Mr S has said 
about a different banks policy on this, but not all payments made for cryptocurrency are 
made as a result of a scam. Additionally, whilst I understand Mr S has said Barclays should 
have been on heightened vigilance because hed been scammed previously, as our 
Investigator pointed out, Mr S had a recent history of legitimate payments to his Coinbase 
account. And I just dont think any of this is sufficient in the particular circumstances of this 
case to tip things in Mr Ss favour. Overall, I just dont think I can say it was unreasonable for 
Barclays to have not intervened in these payments before they were sent. So, Im satisfied 
Barclays didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity in this case to prevent the payments 
before they were sent.
Recovery
After the payments were made, I couldnt reasonably expect Barclays to have done anything 
further until Mr S notified it of the scam. Then, because these were credit card payments, the 
two potential avenues for recovery of the payments would have been chargeback and 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. However, Mr S made the payments from his 
Barclays credit card to Coinbase (and not directly to the scammers). This means the 
merchant here, for chargeback and section 75 purposes, would be Coinbase (and not the 
scammers). Coinbase legitimately provided the services intended (which was the purchase 
of cryptocurrency and then moving it on as per Mr Ss choosing). The subsequent transfer of 
the funds onto the scammers from Coinbase would not give rise to a valid chargeback claim 
through Barclays, and there would be no valid claim under section 75 either, as the 
debtor-creditor-supplier link is broken given Mr S paid Coinbase  a legitimate merchant. So, 
I dont think these payments were recoverable by Barclays once they had been made.
I realise this means Mr S is out of pocket, and Im sorry hes lost money. However, I cant 
fairly nor reasonably tell Barclays to reimburse him in circumstances where I dont think it 
reasonably ought to have prevented the payments or been able to recover them.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman