DRN-3440158
The complaint
Mr P complains about the fees charged by Interactive Investor Services Limited (IISL). He 
says he was unaware of the charges and that IISL showed no sympathy for his position. He 
wants the fees written off and to be paid a considerable amount of compensation.
What happened
Mr P opened an execution only stocks and shares ISA account with a broker in 2017. Later 
that same year, the brokers business was taken over by IISL. 
The same year he also opened an execution only share dealing account (referred to by IISL 
as a trading account) with IISL.
Mr P says that he had two shareholdings valued at around £7,200.
Over the next few years, the value of his shares went down. He says this upset him and he 
didnt want to look at or monitor his accounts. He says he only realised hed been charged a 
monthly fee in or around 2020 when he realised IISL had taken over responsibility for his ISA 
account and he decided to contact it. IISL told him it contacted him in 2017, but Mr P didnt 
recall receiving any emails or post. IISL told him he was accumulating monthly fees which 
needed to be paid.
Mr P complained to IISL about its fees in 2021. He said he only had a small shareholding 
and that there hadnt been any activity on his accounts. And he said he wasnt told about the 
fees.
IISL didnt uphold his complaint. It said its fees applied from 1 January 2018 and that it had 
emailed Mr P on three occasions about the update to its terms of service, including its fees. 
And it said it had sent a secure message to Mr P in April 2019 when its fees changed from a 
quarterly to a monthly charge. It said Mr P needed to pay the outstanding fees. It told him the 
monthly fee would continue to be chargeable, but that Mr P could choose to either liquidate 
his assets and close his accounts; withdraw his investments as share certificates and 
withdraw any cash; or transfer to another provider.
Mr P paid the outstanding fees by debit card and sold his shares.
When he referred his complaint to us, he told us about his personal circumstances and why 
he thought the fees should be written off. And he said he wanted compensation of £7,500 to 
£25,000.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded IISL 
had given Mr P clear information about the takeover of his account, including information 
about the change in terms and fees. She didnt think IISL had treated Mr P unfairly.
Mr P didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
IISL had no feeling for him. After paying its fees, he was left with a zero balance in his 
account, but this didnt concern IISL as long as it got paid.
IISL charged fees but he didnt trade, and he didnt sign any paperwork agreeing to its 
charges.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I want to thank Mr P for sharing information with us about his circumstances. Im sorry 
for the difficult time hes been having, and I appreciate hes found the situation with IISL very 
stressful.
Secondly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here, including recordings of 
some of Mr Ps phone calls with IISL. But Im not going to respond to every single point 
made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Having carefully considered everything, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator for the following reasons:
Mr P opened an ISA account with the previous provider in March 2017. An annual fee was 
payable but not due before the account was migrated to IISL in December 2017.
Im satisfied that IISL emailed Mr P, at the address hed provided, in May 2017 to tell him 
about the move to IISL, and in October 2017 to provide him with its terms and its charges. 
I think IISL made it reasonably clear in these communications that Mr P would be charged a 
quarterly fee of £22.50 from January 2018. And Im satisfied that Mr P was given the option 
to close or transfer his account, free of charge.
Mr P also opened a trading account in April 2017, directly with IISL. Im satisfied he would 
have received information about IISLs terms and charges when he opened this account.
In April 2019, IISL gave notice to Mr P  through a secure message on his account  that its 
pricing structure would be changing to a monthly charge of £9.99. Its terms and conditions 
outline how and in what circumstances it can vary its terms. Im satisfied IISL acted in line 
with these terms when it changed its charges. It contacted Mr P through an appropriate 
communication channel, and it provided him with more than the required 30 days notice. 
The message was headed, Important changes to your pricing and the information provided 
was reasonably clear.
The charges debited to Mr Ps trading account (relating to both the trading and ISA 
accounts) were shown in his statements and in his online account. So Mr P shouldve 
reasonably realised how much he was being charged, even if hed missed the 
communication about the change.
Mr P told us he wasnt accessing his accounts because he was upset by the decrease in 
value of his assets. Whilst I understand this would have been upsetting for him, I cant hold 
IISL responsible for his decision not to access, and monitor, his accounts.I dont find IISL required Mr P to sign to agree the change. And whilst I appreciate what he 
says about not trading on the account, I find the fees were still payable, as set out in the 
terms for the account.
Im sorry for the position in which Mr P finds himself but, for the reasons Ive explained, 
I dont think IISL has treated him unreasonably or unfairly. IISL told us that both Mr Ps 
accounts remain open but are not currently being charged any fees. His trading account has 
no holdings and a zero cash balance. His ISA holds one investment which has zero value. 
Mr P may want to contact IISL to give further instructions if he doesnt want the accounts to 
remain open.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman