DRN-3996775
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the delay in repairing his vehicle and the quality of the repairs
carried out following a claim under his minibus insurance policy with QBE UK Limited.
What happened
Mr A, who is a taxi driver, had an accident in his minibus in which it was damaged on 13
January 2022. He contacted QBEs claim line and their claim handling agent, wholl Ill refer
to as F, allocated the repairs to a garage on QBEs approved repairer network, who Ill refer
to as G. G carried out a mobile inspection and drew up an estimate on 18 January 2022
and booked the minibus in for repair on 16 February 2022. Due to some confusion on when
the minibus would be going to G, Mr A took it to them on 7 February 2022. However, G
werent in a position to start working on the vehicle. And it seems from what theyve said,
they stripped it down on 25 February 2022. And they ordered the parts needed to repair it on
28 February 2022. It seems the parts arrived on 1 March 2022, but three were missing, so
they couldnt complete the repairs. Mr A wanted the vehicle back and eventually collected it
before G had actually finished repairing it.
Mr A complained to QBE. He said after G carried out the estimate on 18 January 2022 they
told him his vehicle would be repaired in a couple of weeks. It then sat outside his house
until 5 February 2022. So he contacted G through a friend and was told his vehicle would be
collected on 7 February 2022. It wasnt collected, so he took matters into his own hands and
delivered it to G. Mr A has added that throughout this time he was being told by the
proprietor of G that they couldnt get the parts, even though G had never actually physically
inspected the vehicle. Mr A has said after he dropped his vehicle off and was going home in
a taxi, he saw it pass him to be parked up at Gs new premises nearby. Hes said all he was
ever told by the proprietor of G was that the parts werent available. Hes further explained
that nothing happened to his vehicle until 3 March 2022 when it was taken to Gs other
workshop for the work to be carried out. Mr A has said he then received a telephone call
from G to say his vehicle would be ready on 4 March 2002. When he arrived to collect it from
G he was told some of the parts that had been delivered were incorrect and that they would
finish the job on 8 March 2022. He then took the vehicle.
Mr A has explained his vehicle was in a bad state with an abysmal spray job and the front
passenger door not opening, amongst other things. So, he took it to another repairer, who Ill
refer to as B. B resolved the issue around the door, so that Mr A could still use it for his taxi
service. B provided a report, which Mr A provided to QBE saying how poor the repairs that
had been carried out were.
Mr A has said he telephoned G on 5 March 2022 and told the proprietor how unhappy he
was with the repairs. And that the proprietor complained they hadnt been given enough time
to finish the repairs. And the proprietor let slip that he hadnt ordered the parts until the
previous week. Mr A has said he then got a call from G on 11 March 2022 to say the parts
had arrived and to bring his vehicle in, so that it could be completely repaired. This was
despite G putting on Fs portal that it had been completely repaired and returned to him on 4
March 2022. Mr A told G he would not be bringing the vehicle back in.
Mr A also mentioned when he raised his complaint that he was unhappy about having to
spend around £2,000 on hiring a replacement vehicle due to the delay repairing his vehicle.
QBE arranged for an engineers inspection and report. And they agreed for the further work
needed on the vehicle to be completed by another repairer at a later date agreed with Mr A.
And theyve paid for this. It doesnt look like they issued a final response letter on Mr As
complaint.
Mr A asked us to consider his complaint about the repairs and the hire charges hed incurred
as a result of the delay repairing his vehicle. We told QBE this was what his complaint was
about and asked for the information we needed to investigate it on 1 June 2022. QBE
provided their papers on 17 June 2022. When doing so they said they didnt think Mr As
complaint about the repairs should be upheld. They also said they didnt think he should get
anything towards hiring a vehicle, as his policy didnt provide cover for this. But they did
agree communication with Mr A could have been better.
One of our investigators considered Mr As complaint. In his first view on it he said he didnt
think it should be upheld. However, he then issued a second view, in which he said that he
thought the repairs to Mr As vehicle should have been carried out much quicker and that the
delay had caused Mr A distress and inconvenience and to incur hire charges for a
replacement vehicle he should not have incurred. He suggested QBE reimburse what Mr A
paid to hire a replacement vehicle between 9 February and 8 March 2022. And that they pay
him £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr A said he was happy with this outcome. But QBE objected to it. They asked the
investigator to explain why he thought the repairs to Mr As vehicle should have been
completed by 9 February. And they pointed out that, although G may have had reduced
capacity, this is true of all repairers in the winter months and there were also problems
getting parts, which had been the case since the Pandemic. They also said they arent
aware of any hire invoices for the period 9 February to 8 March 2022.
The investigator went back on these points. He explained he felt the period from 13 January
to 9 February was a reasonable period for QBE to have had Mr As vehicle repaired. And
that theyd need to ask him for invoices to substantiate what hed paid to hire an alternative
vehicle.
QBE came back to say they didnt feel the timescale suggested by the investigator was
reasonable for the time of year. And they said Mr A didnt make them aware of hire
charges or ask them to consider them as part of his complaint. And they asked for an
ombudsmans decision.
Mr A then contacted the investigator to ask if the ombudsman could consider awarding 
something for the hire charges he incurred in the summer whilst his vehicle was in for the 
repairs to be completed and rectification work carried out to correct the poor repairs carried 
out by G.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say I have noted what QBE have said about Mr As complaint about the hire
charges. However, these flow from his complaint about the standard of the repairs and the
delay in carrying them out. In any event, as I have already explained, we told QBE at the
beginning of June 2022 that this was part of Mr As complaint and when they provided theirpapers on 17 June they commented on the hire charges. So, I consider it is appropriate for
me to consider them as part of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that 13 January to 8 February is a reasonable period to allow for
QBE to have had Mr As vehicle repaired. This would have allowed plenty of time for an
estimate to be drawn up and a repairer found and the days that were needed to complete
the repair. I do not understand QBEs suggestion that all repairers have limited capacity in
the winter months, as  in my experience  this is not the case. And I cant see why the fact
it is the winter would make any difference to how many cars a repairer can repair. In any
event, it is clear from the notes provided that G had limited capacity because one of their
premises was out of action, ie it had nothing to do with the time of year. In my opinion, F
should have realised early on that G couldnt repair Mr As vehicle quickly enough and made
alternative arrangements or offered Mr A the option to find a repairer to do it. I say this, as he
has a commercial policy to cover a vehicle that is crucial to his business and I think it was
unreasonable to expect him to have it sitting there for well over a month, when other options
could have been considered.
I appreciate what G have said happened is slightly different to what Mr A has said. But I
prefer Mr As testimony, as it is more detailed and seems to tie in with the timeline. However,
it is clear from what both Mr A and G have said that the delay to the repairs starting had
nothing to do with the fact G was waiting for parts. The fact some parts didnt arrive as part
of the order for them did play a part in preventing G completing the repairs as quickly as
theyd suggested they would, but this is very different to it causing a delay of around a month
and a half in starting them.
Without his vehicle, due to the unnecessary delay in starting the repairs to it, Mr A had no
other option than to hire a vehicle to be able to continue his business. And, as I think he
should have had his vehicle back and repaired on 8 March, I think QBE should reimburse
what Mr A paid to hire a vehicle between 9 February and when he had his vehicle back and
was able to use it. Mr A has now provided an invoice at £80 per day covering this period,
which I consider reasonable for the type of vehicle he needed. The hire in this period is for
13 days between 9 February and 4 March at £80 per day, which is £1,040.
Ive also considered Mr As request to be reimbursed for the hire charges he incurred in the
summer of 2022 while his vehicle went back in to have the repairs completed and
rectification work carried out. This is a period of 19 days from 25 July to 12 August 2022. Mr
A has provided an invoice for this and clearly did have to rent a vehicle in this period. And
Im satisfied this was because his vehicle was in for the further work required to be carried
out. Im also satisfied from the report Mr A has provided by B that this wasnt just to complete
the repairs required; it was also to correct some of the work carried out by G. I say that
because their comments  which I find persuasive  state that some of the work  like
paintwork  had to be redone and their estimate covers this.
Mr A has explained that the reason his vehicle was with the repairer for 19 days in total was
that they had to redo all the work done by G. This is a long period of time for the amount of
work required. But, it was obviously difficult for Mr A, as he had no real control over how long
the repairer took and he was only in the position he was because of poor repairs by G and
the unreasonable time they took to start the repairs to his vehicle. So, I think QBE should
cover any additional costs flowing from this. It is clear from the invoice Mr A has provided
that he did hire a replacement vehicle for 19 days in this period. And hes explained that this
was because in this period he operated full time as a taxi service, as it was in the school
holidays when he had no school runs to carry out. So, I think it is also fair and reasonable for
me to require QBE to cover Mr As hire costs in this period as well. Mr A also paid £80 per
day in this period and has provided an invoice. And  as Ive said  I consider £80 per day
reasonable for the type of vehicle he needed. This is £1,520 in total.This means the full amount I think QBE should pay for hire charges is £2,560. And Ive
asked our investigator to send copies of the invoices to QBE. I appreciate there is no cover
under the policy for a hire vehicle, but this award has nothing to do with what is covered by
Mr As policy. It is a loss which I consider flows directly from the poor claim handling by F
and QBE and the poor repairs by G. I also think QBE should pay interest on the amount due
to Mr A at our usual rate of 8% per annum simple from the date Mr A settled the hire
invoices to the date QBE reimburses what he paid. This is because he has been without
these funds as a result of failings by QBE or their agents.
I also agree with our investigator that the poor repairs by G and poor handling by QBE and F
caused Mr A distress and inconvenience. This is because he had to chase the garage and
was given incorrect information and had the worry of how to keep his business going and
having to pay for hire. And I think the £200 suggested by our investigator for this is
reasonable.
In summary, as the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr As complaint, I consider QBE should
pay him £2,560 to cover hire charges and £200 in compensation for distress and
inconvenience.
I gave both parties until 28 February 2023 to provide further comments and evidence. 
Mr A responded to say he has no further comments or evidence. QBE have not responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence, I see no reason to change 
my view of what the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr As complaint is as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision dated 14 February 2023, Ive decided the 
fair and reasonable outcome to Mr As complaint is for it to be upheld and for QBE to do the 
following:
Pay Mr A £2,560 to cover what he paid to hire a replacement vehicle for the periods 
set out in my provisional decision.
Pay interest on the separate amounts that make up this figure from the date he paid
them to the date they pay Mr A.
Pay Mr A £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
QBE must tell Mr A if they have made a deduction for income tax from the interest they pay. 
And, if they have, how much theyve taken off. They must also provide a tax deduction 
certificate for Mr A if asked to do so. This will allow Mr A to reclaim the tax from His 
Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint about QBE UK Limited and order them to 
do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman