DRN-3459729
The complaint
A representative of Mr S has complained that TSB Bank plc didnt make a full refund of the 
Gold account fees, when TSB upheld his complaint. 
Mr Ss representative says that she has calculated how much should be refunded and 
believes the figure should be much more than what TSB agreed to refund.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they thought that the redress paid by 
TSB was correct.
Mr Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
When Mr S complained to TSB about the sale of his Gold account, TSB upheld the 
complaint and arranged for the account fees that he paid for the account to be refunded to 
him. It also agreed to pay Mr S 8% simple interest on those fees. This was calculated from 
the date that each fee was applied to his account, until the date of settlement, less tax. The 
figures TSB gave were:
Gold account fee refund: £941.45
8% simple interest on those fees, less tax: £665.91
TSB has explained that Mr S had the Gold account between 2 August 2002 and 24 April 
2019. When the representative for Mr S first calculated how much they thought should be 
refunded, they said it should be much more than £941.45 based on Mr S having the Gold 
account at a cost of £12.95 per month over more than 16 years.
However, the adjudicator explained that the monthly fee had not always been £12.95. They 
explained that it had actually been £8 per month until June 2004, where it increased to £10 
per month. It then increased again to £12 per month in June 2008 and then to £12.95 in 
August 2012. As such, this partly explains why the amount refunded was a lot less than what 
the representative expected.
The adjudicator also explained that Mr S did not in fact pay a monthly fee for every month 
that he had the account. This was because the Gold account included a feature called a 
fee-waiver, which meant the monthly fee was not charged if the balance was kept above a 
certain amount for the whole month  which was £1,500 early on when the account was 
held, and later this was increased to £2,000 in 2004. 
To demonstrate this, TSB provided an example bank statement that showed Mr S didnt pay 
the monthly Gold account fee between September 2005 and June 2006 because the 
balance of the account was kept above £2,000. And the refund calculations show that no 
refund of account fees was included in the redress for those months, as there were no fees 
to refund in that period.
My understanding is that Mr Ss representative still doesnt accept that the amount refunded 
was correct. I have double checked everything that I have been provided with and based on 
what I have seen, I think that the amount refunded is correct. And although the 
representative didnt accept the adjudicators explanation  theyve not provided any 
evidence or provided any further reason as to why they still think the amount refunded was 
incorrect.
So, as I think that the amount refunded was calculated in line with our services approach to 
putting matters right where a packaged account has been mis-sold, I dont think TSB needs 
to do anything further, beyond what it has already done.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman