DRN-3829784
The complaint
Miss K has complained about the way Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited has 
dealt with a claim she made under a buildings insurance policy.
Reference to Watford includes its agents and representatives.
Miss K has been represented at times but for simplicity Ill refer to her only.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Miss K got in touch with Watford after she discovered water had leaked and caused 
damage to her home. Watford accepted the claim and Miss K moved into alternative 
accommodation (AA).
Watford then paused the claim because it was uncertain whether Miss K was eligible 
to claim on the policy. 11 days later, it agreed Miss K was eligible and continued to 
deal with the claim.
Miss K complained about what had happened  both the delay in her claim and the 
communication during that time. She said shed faced an anxious wait to find out if 
she was insured or not and shed had to take time off work unpaid to deal with the 
claim, losing out on two weeks salary. She asked Watford to reimburse that loss and 
pay compensation.
Watford looked into Miss Ks complaint about the delay, as well as other matters that 
had arisen. It apologised for the delay caused when the claim was paused. It also 
offered £350 compensation for the distress caused to Miss K by a contractor. It 
accepted Miss K had incurred financial losses, as she was left to fund the AA and 
associated costs whilst the claim was paused and reimbursed these costs.
Our investigator thought Watfords response was reasonable. She said Miss K had 
been caused distress by claim delays and the behaviour of Watfords contractor. She 
was satisfied £350 was reasonable compensation for this. And she said the claim 
settlement for AA and associated costs was fair.
Miss K responded to say she thought the way Watford had acted in relation to the 
claim delay was unacceptable and unprofessional. She questioned what role Watford 
played in the policy and claim. She said she hadnt asked us to look into the 
behaviour of the contractor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been a number of parties involved in the claim, and I think thats led to some 
confusion. In summary, Watford is the insurer ultimately responsible for the policy and any 
claims made under it. In practice, its delegated some of its responsibilities to agents. For 
example, the loss adjuster who handled the claim and communicated with Miss K. But 
Watford is named on the policy schedule as the insurer. And as its responsible for the claim, 
as well as all of the agents it delegated to, this complaint has been considered against it.
The policy provides cover for damage caused by escape of water. Watford accepted the 
damage had been caused that way and agreed to cover the claim. At the time of Miss Ks 
complaint, Watford was in the process of putting the damage right.
The main focus of Miss Ks complaint is the 11 day delay when Watford paused the claim. 
So my focus will also be on that point. Ill then go on to cover the other points mentioned.
Claim delay
I understand the crux of Miss Ks complaint is the way Watford paused the claim after initially 
accepting it. Not only did this cause Miss K the distress and worry about whether her claim 
would be covered, as shed been led to believe it would be, it also happened at the point she 
was moving into AA  and significant payments had to be made. Its clear the delay caused 
by pausing the claim was concerning for her and at a time when she was already distressed 
by the significant damage to her home and the need to move out.
Miss K is the leaseholder of the damaged apartment. The buildings insurance for that 
apartment, and nine others, is arranged by a management company Ill call B. The policy 
documents show B is the policyholder. Miss K isnt named on the policy, although her 
apartment is. I understand in practice, all ten leaseholders jointly own B. The policy was 
taken out for Miss Ks benefit and she is eligible to claim on it.
However, at the time of the claim, all Watford knew was it insured B and had received a 
claim from Miss K. Im satisfied it was reasonable for Watford to ensure its policy provided 
cover for Miss K before continuing with the claim. To do that, it had to find out about the 
relationship between B and Miss K. It took a total of 11 days for Watford to do that, confirm it 
had accepted the claim, and agree to progress it.
During this time, Watford was in frequent contact with its claim handling agents and other 
parties to understand the situation. Given the position Miss K was in during the 11 days, I 
think Watford could have progressed things more urgently to minimise the distress and 
disruption for her. Part of the problem was the large number of parties involved. Although 
Watford is entitled to delegate parts of its business to agents, it must ensure that doing so 
doesnt treat its customers unfairly  and doesnt cause unreasonable delays.
I know Miss K was disappointed that she couldnt contact Watford directly during the delay. 
But Watford, like any insurer, isnt required to be in direct contact with its customers. Its 
entitled to appoint agents to do that if it wishes. In this case it did, and the loss adjuster was 
in frequent contact with Miss K, including during the period of delay. I can see the loss 
adjuster communicated promptly and helpfully with Miss K and took proactive steps to 
progress the claim and minimise the delay.
Watford has said it offered £350 compensation solely for the behaviour of the contractor. 
Whilst it didnt offer any compensation for the delay, it did acknowledge the distress caused 
by it and apologised for that. In the circumstances, Im satisfied thats a reasonable response 
to what happened.Miss K has said she had to take time off work unpaid and would like Watford to reimburse 
her loss. All claims will be stressful to some extent and particularly so in circumstances such 
as these, where significant damage was caused to Miss Ks home, forcing her to move out. I 
dont hold insurers responsible for the inevitable distress and inconvenience this causes. But 
if an insurer causes avoidable, additional distress and inconvenience, I will hold it 
responsible and think about what an appropriate remedy is in the circumstances.
In this case, aside from the delay dealt with above, I havent seen evidence of Watford 
causing avoidable distress and inconvenience to Miss K. So I dont think theres anything for 
it to remedy. Accordingly, I wont ask it to pay for any lost earnings Miss K has suffered.
Other points
Miss K doesnt seem to dispute the way Watford settled her claim for financial losses she 
suffered when arranging AA. But Ill clarify the position.
Miss K was left to pay for the AA and associated costs, such as furniture removal, as they 
fell due whilst the claim was paused. I understand these costs totalled £4,899.20. Watford 
deducted two policy excesses at £500 each and paid Miss K £3,899.20 to settle this part of 
the claim. Miss K also paid a deposit for the AA, which she was entitled to seek back directly 
from the landlord.
Watford deducted two excesses, because it found two separate escapes of water had 
contributed to the overall damage  one from a drain behind the kitchen and another from 
the bathroom.
I dont find this settlement unreasonable.
Miss K has said she didnt ask us to look into the compensation offered for the behaviour of 
the contractor and this had been dealt with already. So I havent considered this point.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman