DRN-2819795
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that they were given wrong information by Charles Stanley & Co Ltd. 
They say if theyd been given the correct information, they would have given instructions to 
sell their shares.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P hold portfolios with Charles Stanley which are managed on a discretionary 
basis  in other words, Charles Stanley take investment decisions on Mr and Mrs Ps behalf. 
Mr and Mrs P say that, during a review meeting with their advisor, they asked if they could 
liquidate their portfolio and keep the cash with Charles Stanley until they wanted to reinvest 
it. They say they were told this wasnt possible  that if they liquidated their portfolios the 
cash would be transferred to their bank accounts and their Charles Stanley accounts would 
be closed.
Due to the advice they say they received, Mr and Mrs P had concerns that, if they liquidated 
their portfolios, theyd be less able to react quickly when they wanted to reinvest. If theyd 
known they could have liquidated and kept the cash in their portfolio accounts, they would 
have done so.
Charles Stanley said theyd been a misunderstanding; that their advisor would not have 
given them the wrong information; and that, when liquidation was discussed again during a 
phone call shortly after the meeting, Mr P agreed not to sell his investments.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He accepted there 
had been a misunderstanding, but he couldnt conclude that Charles Stanley had given 
Mr and Mrs P incorrect information.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. They said, in summary, that.
The advisor told them, If you liquidate we would close your accounts and transfer the 
money to your bank. This was so straightforward that it couldnt be misunderstood.
The advice meant they had no option but to stay with Charles Stanley because it would 
take time to reinvest with another business.
The advisor has apologised for misleading them and offered to waive dealing 
commission as a gesture of goodwill. This shows he did something wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no note of the meeting which took place on 27 January. Its clear from what both 
parties say, and from the follow up emails, that this was a review meeting and that, with the 
uncertainty of the impact of the Coronavirus, Mr P expressed some nervousness about the 
markets. From both parties recollections, its clear that the possibility of liquidating Mr and 
Mrs Ps portfolios was discussed. But I cant say with any certainty exactly what was said. In 
cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having considered all of the evidence very carefully, I find I have arrived at the same 
conclusion as our investigator for the following reasons:
Whilst Mr P clearly expressed his nervousness about the markets and was considering 
whether he and Mrs P should liquidate their portfolios, he did not give instructions to sell any 
shares.
Liquidating the portfolios was discussed, but Charles Stanley advised against this. As 
discretionary investment manager, it took decisions on behalf of Mr and Mrs P. Whilst it 
didnt recommend liquidation, the advisor made it clear during the phone call on 2 March that 
he would act on Mr and Mrs Ps instructions if they wanted to sell their investments.
Mr P feels very strongly that he was given the wrong information. He is specific about what 
was said by the advisor. The advisor recollects the conversation differently. Its clear that the 
advisor did not recommend liquidating the portfolios. The advisor recalls that he told Mr and 
Mrs P that theyd still be charged a fee for holding cash in their portfolios so would be as well 
to hold the cash in their bank accounts. I think this is where the misunderstanding arose. It 
was possible to hold cash in their portfolios, so I dont find any reason why the advisor would 
have told Mr and Mrs P they couldnt  only that he didnt recommend it. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call which took place on 2 March between Mr P and the 
advisor, a few days after the meeting. Mr P remained nervous about the markets and asked 
whether it made sense to go into cash. The advisor explains why he doesnt recommend 
this, and Mr P concludes that he will leave things as they are. Theres no suggestion during 
this call that cash cant be held in the portfolios, or that this is Mr Ps understanding of the 
situation.
Ive also carefully considered what the advisor said about all of this following Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. And I can see he is regretful that he inadvertently caused this frustration. I think 
the advisor wished hed been clearer during the meeting so that a misunderstanding would 
have been less likely. But I dont find his expressions of regret and apology support that he 
did or said something wrong; rather, he was sorry that Mr and Mrs P had misunderstood the 
conversation.
Overall, I dont think Charles Stanley gave Mr and Mrs P wrong information. And whilst 
Mr and Mrs P were considering whether they ought to sell their shares, they agreed not to, 
based on their discussions with their advisor and his recommendations. So, even if a 
misunderstanding hadnt happened, Im not persuaded they would have done anything 
differently. I think they would still have followed the advisors recommendation not to 
liquidate their portfolios.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman