DRN-4013860
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 19 October 2021, Miss M was supplied with a new car through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. She paid an advance payment of £1,000, and the agreement 
was for £13,995 over 60 months; with monthly repayments of £439.25. At the time of supply, 
the car was around five years and nine months old. 
Both the agreement and sales invoice show that the car had done 115,000 miles. However, 
these are incorrect as the MOT record for 27 July 2021 (almost three months before the car 
was supplied to Miss M) shows the car had done 118,416 miles.
Within a week of being supplied with the car, Miss M contacted the supplying dealership and 
said the car had two slow punctures, the screen washer didnt work, the V5 hadnt been 
supplied, and the car hadnt been taxed. And she asked to reject the car. However, she 
instead agreed to let the dealership fix the problems.
In January 2022, Miss M told the broker who arranged the finance about further issues with 
the car. She told the broker she would sort this out and send them the bill. The broker didnt 
respond. Miss M had further problems with the car in March 2022, as it was losing power 
and the accelerator was sticking. And she had the exhaust and the battery replaced. 
However, the car lost power again on June 2022 when it had done 125,936 miles. She was 
told there was an issue with the EGR valve and timing chain and, after unsuccessfully trying 
to contact the broker and dealership about this, Miss M raised a complaint with Moneybarn.
Moneybarn arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. And the engineer said 
there was an oil leak, fault codes associated with the EGR valve, the engine management 
light was illuminated, and the car couldnt be driven due to a timing chain rattle. However, 
the engineer didnt think these issues were present when the car was supplied to Miss M. 
So, Moneybarn didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss M wasnt happy with this, and she brought her complaint to us for investigation. She 
said that shed been without use of the car since June 2022, while still paying for it; that no 
courtesy car had been provided, that the warranty company wont cover the work, and that 
she was reliant upon taxis to get to work. She thought the car was unsafe when it was 
supplied to her, which had meant that shes been unable to attend medical appointments, 
and this has had a considerable impact on her finances and mental health.
Our investigator said there was a fault with the car. But she said the initial problems had 
been fixed by the supplying dealership, and the problems that occurred in January 2022 
were repaired by Miss M. So, Moneybarn werent given any opportunity to inspect the car to 
determine whether these issues were present at the point of supply.
The investigator also said that the problems with the EGR valve and timing chain had 
happened after Miss M had had the car for a number of months. And she thought that, if the 
issues had been present or developing when the car was supplied, then they wouldve been 
obvious sooner and wouldve been brought to Miss Ms attention when she had the car 
repaired in March 2022. Because of this, she thought the issues with the car were due to 
wear and tear and didnt think Moneybarn needed to do anything more.
Finally, with regards to the tax and warranty, the investigator said shed seen no evidence to 
show that the car would be supplied taxed and/or with a warranty. And, as Miss M hadnt 
already raised these issues with Moneybarn, she would need to do so before we could 
consider this complaint.
Miss M didnt agree with the investigator. She provided a copy of the warranty and said the 
warranty company wont help her, the dealership hasnt dealt with her complaint about this, 
and Moneybarn have also said they arent able to help. The investigator explained that this 
isnt something we can look into as the dealership arent a regulated company, and the 
warranty isnt a regulated agreement. However, the investigator said that the Motor 
Ombudsman may be able to consider this.
Because Miss M didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Miss M was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Moneybarn are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, it implies that the fault was present when the 
car was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, it implies that its for Miss M to show that it was present when the 
car was supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Miss M took possession of it, and 
this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn 
to put this right.
I havent seen anything to show me what the mileage was on the car when it was supplied to 
Miss M. As the mileage showing on the MOT was recorded around three months before the 
car was supplied, I cant rely on the MOT mileage as being the supply mileage.Given the age of the car, and the mileage it had done up to the point of the MOT in late July 
2021, this works out at an average of 1,800 miles per month. Public records show that the 
car was advertised for sale in early September 2021, so its reasonable to assume that the 
car was being used by the previous owner to this point (at an average of 1,800 miles a 
month) and was then not used afterwards. So, Im satisfied its reasonable to conclude that 
the supply mileage would have been around 121,500 miles.
The MOT record also shows that the car had initially failed a MOT in July 2021. It then had 
two replacement tyres fitted, and work done on the suspension, before it then passed the 
MOT. At the time the car passed the MOT, there were no outstanding advisories.
Miss M contacted the dealership about the car by text message on 8 November 2021, 
complaining that its got a wrong spare key and the screenwash doesnt work and its got a 
slow puncture. She also said I am well within my rights to have a full refund and you collect 
the car. Let me know a Day and time you will be collecting.
Subsequent text conversations indicated that Miss M wanted to return and reject the car. 
However, in an email dated 12 November 2021 she confirmed Ive decided to let the 
dealership fix the car.
The CRA allows Miss M to reject the car within the first 30 days if its of an unsatisfactory 
quality. While I appreciate that Miss M wouldve found the situation to be frustrating, Im not 
convinced that an issue with the screenwash, two slow punctures, and a missing spare key 
made the car of an unsatisfactory quality given its age and mileage. But, even if it did, Miss 
M accepted a repair and theres no evidence that these faults reoccurred.
Miss M sent a further text to the dealership on 8 January 2022, complaining that she still 
hadnt received a copy of the warranty, that the spare key was still missing, the car vibrated 
at 70mph, and the brakes were grinding. After receiving no reply, she arranged for repairs 
herself. The car was inspected, and she was charged around £800 for a replacement 
exhaust (including actuator and clamp), and battery. 
Again, I appreciate Miss Ms frustration at the situation. But exhausts and batteries are parts 
that deteriorate with age and usage and require replacement over the lifetime of a vehicle. 
Again, given the age and mileage of the car when it was supplied, and in the absence of any 
other evidence, Im satisfied its more likely than not that these parts failed due to wear and 
tear. So would form part of a regular maintenance schedule.
Ive also noted that, following the inspection of the car on 31 March 2022, there is no 
mention of any issues with either the timing chain or EGR.
The car broke down in June 2022. An inspection on the car on 24 June 2022, when it had 
travelled 125,936 miles (likely around 4,500 miles after it was supplied to Miss M), showed 
substantial wear to the brakes and tyres. It also noted timing chain dangerously worn. 
Requires new egr and timing chain.
Ive seen a copy of the report by the independent engineer, for an inspection that took place 
on 9 September 2022. In this report, the engineer confirmed the timing chain displayed 
rattling noises on start up and also the engine management light was illuminated  however 
the back up button [on the centre screen] did not function and the screen could not be 
scrolled through. The engineer also confirmed there were signs of oil leakage between the 
engine and gearbox joint. The oil appeared to be consistent with crankshaft rear main oil 
seal leakage and that there were fault codes present relating to the EGR.However, the engineer concluded that we would consider that all faults found would not 
have been developing or present at purchase  the faults have occurred since purchase 
due to in service wear and deterioration. The engineer also confirmed that their duty was to 
the courts, and not to whomever instructed and/or paid for the report. Given this, Im satisfied 
the report is reasonable to rely upon.
The issues the engineer has raised  timing chain, EGR, and oil seals  are also items that 
will require replacement over the lifetime of the car, as part of a regular maintenance 
schedule. And, especially with an item like the timing chain, Id expect this to require 
replacement after 120,000 miles. Given this, the independent engineers comments, and the 
fact there was no indication of the timing chain, EGR, or oil seal problems when the car was 
inspected and repaired in March 2022, Im satisfied that the car was of a satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Miss M, and the current issues with the car have developed since 
supply.
Turning to the warranty and the tax, the warranty wasnt supplied by Moneybarn, nor did it 
form part of the finance agreement. Due to road tax having changed to being electronic, its 
more unusual for used cars to be sold taxed. And I havent seen anything to show me that 
the car was advertised as being sold with road tax.
So, as a result of all the above, I wont be asking Moneybarn to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Moneybarn No.1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman