DRN-4126123
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the increase in premiums in relation to their private medical 
insurance policy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs L have private medical insurance underwritten by 
AXA. The policy renews in November each year. In October 2022, following receipt of 
renewal notification, Mr and Mrs L were concerned about the increase in premium and 
raised the matter with AXA.
Mr and Mrs L are concerned about the significant increase in their gross premiums - 
before deduction of the no claims discount - for the policy years starting in 2021 and 
2022. They say that increases in net premiums for policyholders who have made claims 
is dealt with in the adjustment of the no claims discount. Mr and Mrs L say that increases 
in gross premiums should only reflect increases in the age of the policyholders and the 
cost of medical treatment. They think that AXA is attempting to recoup the cost of 
historical claims. 
Mr and Mrs L want AXA to provide complete information about how it calculates the 
renewal premium. They also want a reduction in the premium. Mr and Mrs L say that as 
other insurers will almost certainly not provide cover for existing health conditions, its fair 
and reasonable for them to know how the premiums are calculated. They say that if all 
insurers were required to provide full details of their costings, commercial sensitivity 
would not be an issue.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that AXA had 
treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly. The investigator explained the impact of the no claims 
discount on the renewal premium. He said that AXA had provided this service with its 
renewal calculation for the two years commencing 2021. The investigator said that AXA 
took into account age and inflation when calculating the premium, as it would for other 
members in Mr and Mrs Ls age group. He didnt think that AXA had treated                   
Mr and Mrs L any differently than it treated other policyholders in the same position. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator. They said that they fully accept the 
reduction in their no claims discount following claims. Mr and Mrs L said that they are 
concerned about the gross premiums before the no claims discount is applied. They say 
that theres a significant increase in premiums that isnt accounted  for in AXAs 
reference to medical inflation and increases due to age. 
Mr and Mrs L reiterated that they believe they are entitled to know how AXA calculated 
the increase in their gross premiums as they are effectively locked into their cover with 
AXA. They say that it would allay their suspicions that AXA is trying to recoup the cost of 
historical claims. 
Mr and Mrs L asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Each policy year is a new contract between the parties. The membership handbook sets out 
that premiums for this type of cover tend to increase every year and that the reasons for that 
include policyholders increased age and the increasing cost of medical treatment. The 
central question for me to decide is whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in its pricing of 
Mr and Mrs Ls premiums for the policy years starting in 2021 and 2022. 
Given the significant increase in Mr and Mrs Ls renewal premiums, I can understand their 
concerns. However, this service isnt the industry regulator, and we have no power to direct 
an insurer to reduce its premium. Its not my role to tell an insurer what price is should 
charge for the risks its policies cover, nor what factors is should take into account in 
assessing those risks. Its for an insurer to decide what risks it wants to cover and what 
premium to charge to cover those risks. Our general approach is that, providing they treat 
people fairly, insurers are entitled to decide what premium covers a risk.
Insurers consider many factors when setting premiums. When deciding how much to charge 
for their policies they will assess the likelihood of a policyholder making a claim and how 
much they might have to pay out for those claims. And each insurer will go about that in its 
own way. I dont agree with Mr and Mrs Ls contention that increases in gross premiums 
should only reflect increases in the ages of the policyholders and the cost of medical 
treatment. Its for AXA to decide which factors it wishes to take into account. Age and the 
cost of medical treatment are mentioned in the membership handbook, but AXAs 
considerations are not restricted to those two factors. 
AXA has provided this service with some information to explain how it calculated                  
Mr and Mrs Ls renewal premium for the policy years starting 2021 and 2022. Im afraid I 
cant share that information with Mr and Mrs L. I appreciate thats frustrating, but this service 
doesnt think its unreasonable for insurers not to share with policyholders sensitive 
commercial information showing how it calculates premiums. Thats because the information 
could be used by competitors to gain a commercial advantage. 
Ive looked carefully at the information AXA has provided. Im satisfied that the premium AXA 
quoted was calculated correctly. Ive seen nothing to indicate that Mr and Mrs L were treated 
less favourably than other policyholders in a similar position. Thats not to say that I dont 
agree with Mr and Mrs L that the premiums have increased substantially in recent years: 
they clearly have. But having reviewed the information thats been provided, I dont think that 
AXA calculated Mr and Mrs Ls premium unfairly. Premium setting is essentially a matter of 
commercial judgement and not something with which we would usually think its fair to 
interfere.
It was open to Mr and Mrs L to decline the renewal quotes and look for a policy with another 
provider. I understand the difficulty of doing that for Mr and Mrs L, but it remains the case 
that they were not obliged to take up the renewal quotes from AXA. 
For the reasons Ive explained, there are no grounds on which I can fairly ask AXA to refund 
part of Mr and Mrs Ls premium or reduce their premium going forward. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman