DRN-1639753
 
The complaint
Mr G and Ms H complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading at the time of sale as "Halifax") 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr G and Ms H bought a regular premium MPPI policy in March 1991 to cover 
their mortgage repayments. The policy covered Mr G only against unemployment, accidents 
and sickness. The mortgage and policy ended in or before 1999.
Mr G and Ms H say it was not made clear during the meeting that the MPPI policy was 
optional. They also say that Halifax did not provide information on alternative providers that 
may have better suited their circumstances.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr G and Ms Hs complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr G and Ms Hs case.
Halifax say it cant be sure where the policy was sold. Mr G and Ms H say it was sold in a 
meeting. So as Mr G and Ms H have been able to recall where it was sold, I will proceed that 
this was the case. 
Ive looked at all the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold Mr G 
and Ms Hs complaint because of the following reasons:
Mr G and Ms H say it was not made clear during the meeting that the policy was 
optional.
 
I acknowledge what they have said about this. I cant be sure exactly what was 
discussed between Mr G and Ms H and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also 
mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections of 
what happened can fade over time.
 
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats 
not surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive 
seen. 
 Without anything else to support what Mr G and Ms H have told me, and based on 
what I know of sales conducted by Halifax during that time, I cant safely conclude 
that Halifax didnt make them aware that the policy was optional and that they chose 
to have it. 
 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr G and Ms H during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed 
that this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr G and Ms H, it had to 
ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mr Gs needs as the policy 
holder. 
 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr G based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr G 
says he had sick pay. But the MPPI policy would have paid in addition to any 
provisions he would have had and most likely for longer. So the benefit would have 
been of use to Mr G during a difficult time as he could have used his provisions to 
pay for other expenses. I think, on balance, Mr G and Ms H had a need for this cover 
based on his circumstances at the date of sale, for any extended period of 
unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant 
or limiting term that would make the policy unsuitable for him either.
 
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mr G and Ms H took out but even though it has provided information detailing the 
cover and how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to Mr 
G and Ms H in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were 
disclosed clearly I dont think Mr G and Ms H would have done anything different and 
decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the 
policy being suitable.
 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr G and Ms H wouldve been affected by any of these.
 
Finally, Mr G has said that Halifax should have provided information about alternative 
providers so that he could choose the option that best suited his circumstances at the time. 
But Halifax was under no obligation to do this. It was entitled to sell only its products to 
customers. It did though in this case, need to make sure that the policy was suitable and 
provide clear information. I think its more likely the policy was suitable and that although I 
can't be sure that it did provide clear information, I don't think it would have made a 
difference to Mr G and Ms H, if it had done so, for the reasons given above. 
This has been a difficult decision to make and I understand this will come as a 
disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mr G and Ms Hs complaint. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr G and Ms Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman