DRN-1676635
The complaint
On behalf of the late Miss N, her brother complains that Swinton Group Limited mishandled 
her motor insurance.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one regulated 
financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name that firm but we dont identify any other 
party.
Miss N had used Swinton as her car insurance broker since at least March 2011. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authority dispute 
resolution rules (DISP). Those rules provide time limits for bringing complaints to us. 
One time limit is six years from the date of the event about which complaint is later made. An 
alternative potentially longer time limit is three years from the date on which the complainant 
ought reasonably to have been aware she had cause for complaint.
We may deal with a complaint outside those time limits only if the firm agrees or if there were 
exceptional circumstances that prevented the complainant from contacting us.
In recent years Miss N suffered ill-health. She or her brother on her behalf cancelled the car 
insurance with effect from mid-March 2019.
Sadly, Miss N died on 25 March 2019. Her Will appointed her brother as an executor. 
Miss Ns brother complained to Swinton that it hadnt been getting her the best price possible 
for her car insurance.
In answer to a complaint on 25 July 2019, Swinton sent a final response dated 13 
September 2019. Swinton didnt accept the complaint.
Miss Ns brother was granted probate in September 2019. He brought the complaint to us in 
November 2019.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
Swinton needed to take any action. 
Miss Ns brother disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Swinton indicated it did not receive his letter dated 21 May 2019 and his email dated 
28 June 2019. 
Swinton, as broker, passed all the information to the different insurance companies of 
their choice without contacting Miss N.
Swinton should ensure that all the current facts about the car are correctly 
undertaken. 
Swinton shouldve offered the best suitable policy to Miss N (who by then was 82 
years of age).
The value of the car specified on the schedule was £6,000.00 at the time of the last 
renewal date. The cars value was in fact no more than a few hundred pounds. 
Swinton did not consider a Third Party, Fire and Theft policy which would have made
more sense considering the age and value of the vehicle rather than going for a fully 
comprehensive policy at a cost of £1,125.14. 
For comprehensive cover with 10 years no claim bonus Swinton quoted £201.84 to 
cover him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Dealing first with time limits, I find that in about February each year, Swinton sent Miss N a 
renewal letter. Theres no evidence about her state of knowledge or any exceptional 
circumstances. So I could only go back six years, that is to the renewal from March 2014.
I have noted the model, the age and the likely market value of Miss Ns vehicle.
Motor insurance is compulsory. And Swintons terms provided for automatic renewal. So I 
dont find that unfair.
I dont find it unreasonable for Swinton  without contacting the customer - to provide 
information to insurance companies for the purpose of inviting quotes.
I dont find it unreasonable for Swinton to carry forward information from the previous year  
and to set it out in the renewal letter for checking by the customer.
As regards the renewals from March 2014 to March 2017 inclusive, the only evidence is a 
list of monthly direct debits noted by Miss Ns brother. There were increases over the years. 
But there isnt enough evidence that Swinton had fallen below a reasonable standard of 
service to Miss N.
As regards the renewals from March 2018 and March 2019, Ive seen the renewal letters. 
The renewal from March 2018 was at a total cost of about £938.00. That sounds high. But it 
included about £129.00 interest for spreading the payments over the year.
I dont find it helpful to make comparisons with her brothers quote for £201.84 as I havent 
seen the details on which that was based. But I note that he lives in a rural postcode.
I accept that Miss N had been unwell and hadnt used her car much. But the renewal letter 
was her opportunity to question the cost of insurance and to make any changes. For 
example, she couldve reduced her expected annual mileage from 6,000. And she couldve 
made the change from comprehensive to third party, fire and theft. I can understand why she didnt contact Swinton. But I cant say that Swinton shouldve been 
aware of Miss Ns ill-health or low mileage. 
Im satisfied that Swinton made it clear that it only provided quotes from the insurance 
companies on its panel  which would pay it a commission on placing business. I find it likely 
that Swinton had no control over the quotes provided by those insurance companies. And I 
cant say that Swinton treated Miss N unfairly by not finding lower quotes.
The same points apply to the renewal from March 2019 at a total cost of about £1,125.00 
(including interest of about £155.00). Moreover, Miss N or her brother cancelled, so that the 
renewal didnt take effect or cost Miss N any money.
Miss Ns brother wrote a letter dated 21 May 2019 asking Swinton to investigate. I find it 
more likely than not that Swinton wouldve replied if it had received that letter. So I accept 
Swintons statement that it didnt receive it. And I dont hold Swinton responsible for Miss Ns 
brother having to chase for a reply by his email dated 28 June 2019.
The rules provide that  following the complaint on 25 July 2019  Swinton had eight weeks 
to send a final response. So Im satisfied that Swintons final response dated 13 September 
2019 was within time.
Overall, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Swinton to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Swinton Group Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Ns brother 
on behalf of her estate to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman