DRN-1703646
 
The complaint
Mr V says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998 by post. The policy was 
taken out at the same time as Mr V applied for the credit card. It gave him protection against 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Bank fo Scotland no longer has a copy of 
Mr V's policy document so I have relied on one from the nearest date available.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Vs complaint. I'll explain why.
Mr V says he didnt know he had PPI, it must have been added without his consent, or he 
was led to believe it was mandatory. But Mr V selected it on his credit card application form 
signing a separate section to confirm he wanted PPI. And there was an option to sign to 
decline PPI just below. Mr V applied by post with no direct contact with the bank. And Ive 
found nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have led him to believe the PPI was 
mandatory. 
On balance, I think Bank of Scotland made it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr V chose to 
take it out. I can understand he might not recall this given how long ago the sale was.
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr V so it didnt need to check if it was 
suitable for him. It was up to Mr V to decide whether the policy was right for him, bearing in 
mind his ability to make his credit card repayments if he was unable to work or lost his job. 
I agree its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr V about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Mr V chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. It seems he wasnt affected by any of the likely main exclusions or 
limitations. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
Mr V told us he was entitled to at least six months sick pay, and he had savings worth 
around three months salary. But the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in addition 
to his work benefits and allowed him to use his savings for other living expenses whilst not 
working. So, overall, based on his circumstances and the terms of the policy, I think it unlikely Mr V wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance, I think he would still have taken out the policy.
Overall, I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold the policy to Mr V. But Bank of Scotland has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr V because: 
- Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) so it should have told Mr V about that. Because Bank of Scotland 
didnt tell Mr V, that was unfair. 
- To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr V.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr V any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman