DRN-1894792
 
complaint
Mrs C complains that Bristol Street Fourth Investments Limited (Bristol) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy taken out in 2006. The policy was taken 
out when Mrs C applied for a loan to buy a car. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld. Mrs C didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I explain why below.
I have seen the credit agreement for the sale. To get the cover Mrs C had to tick a box for 
the PPI option and that box is ticked on Mrs Cs form. Mrs C also had to sign that same part 
of the form, and she did, and this section of the form was separate to her signature for the 
credit. And I note that the PPI is described as Optional Payment Protection Plan in the 
section which explains cost. So, I think its more likely that PPI was presented as optional 
and Mrs C chose to take it and thats how it came to be applied to her loan account. But I 
understand why she might not remember this, given these events happened over 13 years 
ago.
Mrs C told us that she felt under pressure to say yes to the PPI. I have no doubt this 
represents her best recollection of the events of the sale. But this is a subjective area and I 
have not been presented with any evidence that supports this testimony. So, having 
considered the above, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that Mrs C only 
took the policy because she was put under pressure to do so.
Bristol says the policy was sold with a formal recommendation. So, Bristol needed to make 
sure the policy was suitable for Mrs C. And it seems to have been right for her based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. I say this because Mrs C was eligible for the 
policy and she wouldnt have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
And I think Mrs C would have found the policy useful. I say this because Mrs C told us she 
would not have received any sick pay if she couldnt work through ill health, and that she had 
no other means to rely on in that circumstance, or if she lost her job. But the PPI policy 
would have covered the loan repayment for up to 24 months if Mrs C was off work sick and for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs C became unemployed. So, I think Mrs C would have 
found the policy useful.  
I havent seen anything to make me think the policy was unaffordable to Mrs C or that she 
had a need to keep costs down. Whilst I could understand if Mrs C thought the policy 
expensive now, given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mrs C made a 
successful claim, she could have got back quite a bit more than she paid for it.
Mrs C may have got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the 
policy early. I dont know if Bristol thought about this when it recommended the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mrs C. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs C 
thought shed repay the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for her.
Its possible that the information Bristol gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped her from buying it.
I realise Mrs C will be disappointed by the outcome. But on balance, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think the policy was suitable for Mrs C and I dont think better information about 
it would have put her off the PPI. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Bristol Street Fourth 
Investments Limited and I make no award against them.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14July2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman