DRN-4342058
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that TSB Bank Plc rejected his application for a new current account, 
despite being an existing customer.
What happened
Mr B held a current account with TSB. He was experiencing issues with applying gambling 
blocks on his account using the banking app. TSB explained this was due to issues with 
merging his account profiles from when hed previously opened other accounts on their 
system. 
Since Mr B wasnt happy with the solutions TSB offered to this problem and he wasnt 
provided with a timescale for when it would be fixed, he decided to close his existing current 
account and apply for a new one with the hope that it would resolve the issue. TSB rejected 
Mr Bs application for a new current account.
Unhappy with this, Mr B asked TSB to provide an explanation for their decision. He felt TSB 
may have rejected his application due to him making complaints in the past. TSB said they 
couldnt give Mr B the specific reasoning for their decision. They explained they wouldnt 
penalise a customer for making complaints in the past and confirmed he didnt meet their 
criteria on this occasion.
Mr B asked our service to look into this complaint. He feels TSB have treated him unfairly as 
they didnt automatically decline his application, but this was done manually after he was 
given a sort code and account number. He also says that he received a letter letting him 
know the account was closed on his request, which wasnt the case. He believes his credit 
rating is good as he was able to get a credit card with another provider so he cant 
understand why TSB rejected his application for a new current account. He feels TSB 
shouldve at least offered him a basic bank account. Hed like TSB to open his account as a 
resolution to the complaint.
Our investigator looked at Mr Bs complaint and said TSB werent required to provide Mr B a 
reason for declining the application. She said Mr B didnt meet TSBs criteria to open an 
account and hadnt seen any evidence to suggest TSB had done anything wrong. Mr B 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has already complained to our service about the issues he experienced with his 
previous current account. Weve considered this under a separate complaint and an 
ombudsman has issued a final decision. So, for clarity, my decision here solely relates to 
TSBs decision to reject Mr Bs application for a new current account.
I appreciate Mr Bs reasons for closing his existing current account with TSB and applying 
for a new current account. However, TSB are within their rights to assess Mr Bs application 
for new current account and to check if he still meets their eligibility criteria. TSB are entitled 
to set their own underwriting criteria for the products and services they offer which can 
change over time. Having been a recent customer of TSB, it doesnt mean that Mr B was 
guaranteed to be accepted for new current account, as the criteria applied when Mr B 
opened his existing and previous account with TSB is likely to be different to the criteria 
when Mr B applied for a new current account. 
TSB are also able to exercise their commercial judgement on whether they accept an 
application from a customer. In the same way that Mr B is free to decide which provider he 
wishes to use for his banking needs.
In this case, TSB didnt automatically decline Mr Bs application. Their system referred the 
application for further consideration by their Application Review Team. This in itself doesnt 
mean Mr B was treated unfairly. Generally speaking, it isnt unusual for an application to be 
manually reviewed where the system isnt able to automatically provide a decision as to 
whether to accept or reject it.
 
I can see TSB have explained to Mr B that not meeting their eligibility criteria was the reason 
for declining his application. This is what Id expect them to do as TSB arent obliged to 
provide Mr B with any further details. 
TSB have shared their reasons for declining Mr Bs application with our service. We cant 
disclose this information to Mr B due to it being confidential and commercially sensitive. 
However, having reviewed this, I can see TSB have considered a number of factors, 
including the details they already held about Mr B, information provided on his application, 
his credit file and their underwriting criteria to reach their decision. Im satisfied TSB have 
made the decision to decline Mr Bs application legitimately and havent treated him unfairly.   
Mr B has said that TSB decided to reject his application after they provided him with the sort 
code and account number which means they opened the account and then closed it. He also 
says that TSB wrote to him incorrectly stating hed requested to close the account. 
Having looked at the system notes TSB have provided, I can see only an application number 
was generated and not a sort code and account number. Im also satisfied that an account 
wasnt opened as the application was declined. 
Mr B has also questioned why TSB created his online banking details and then retracted it. 
He feels they shouldve rejected it from the outset. I dont think its unreasonable that Mr B 
registered for his online banking at the point of his application as it wasnt automatically 
rejected. The application was pending review which meant there was a possibility his 
application couldve been accepted. I can see from the system notes that his internet 
banking was cancelled after his application was declined.
While Mr B feels TSB couldve offered him a basic bank account, it was his own decision to 
close his existing current account with TSB when there was no guarantee his application for 
a new current account would be accepted. Ultimately, since Mr B already has a bank 
account with another banking provider, TSB werent required to offer him a basic bank 
account which is one of the eligibility requirements.
All things considered, Im satisfied TSB havent treated Mr B unfairly. So, I wont be asking 
them to do anything.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman