DRN-3157495
The complaint
Miss H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) refuses to 
refund payments she made to a binary options investment scammer. 
What happened
Miss H was searching for investment opportunities online and was telephoned by a 
representative of CFD Corporate. She was sold an online trading account which would be 
managed by one of the CFD Corporate account managers. She was advised that shed be 
able to access her trading account and withdraw her profits as and when she wished. 
Miss H proceeded to make payments via a different banking provider (Bank A) and then 
CFD Corporate encouraged her to use her available credit to make further payments. They 
also showed her how to increase her credit limit with Tesco Bank so that she could pay them 
more. Miss H says CFD Corporate promised her increased profits with each subsequent 
payment. 
Between 5 July 2018 to 19 July 2018  Miss H made 12 payments to CFD Corporate (with 
transaction fees attached to each payment) totalling £3,768.74. She made these payments 
from her Tesco Bank Mastercard credit card. 
Once Miss H had deposited all her available credit balance, her account manager began to 
invest all of the funds on her trading account at a loss. She asked them to stop but they 
didnt and eventually lost all of her available balances. 
She contacted Tesco and Bank A to help recover her payments. Bank A advised Miss H that 
CFD Corporate were scammers. Bank A processed chargeback claims on her behalf and 
successfully recovered all of her deposit transactions. 
 
Tesco Bank advised Miss H it had no Mastercard chargeback dispute options for her. It also 
advised that s.75 wasnt an option because Miss H funded her binary options trading 
account and therefore it didnt apply. 
One of our Investigators felt that Miss H had established a valid s.75 claim and that Tesco 
Bank should refund her disputed payments and transaction fees. Tesco Bank didnt dispute 
that CFD Corporate were scammers but it highlighted that the payments didnt go to CFD 
Corporate directly and instead went to two different merchants Ill call H and P. It said it 
couldnt see a link between them and CFD Corporate. Because of this Tesco Bank said the 
necessary debtor-creditor-supplier chain (required for s.75 claims) was broken. 
The case was passed to me for determination. 
I requested evidence from Tesco Bank to demonstrate why it felt H and P were doing more 
than just processing the payments on behalf of CFD Corporate as a payment processor 
wouldnt break the debtor-creditor-supplier chain. Tesco couldnt provide any further 
evidence and instead felt the onus was on Miss H to provide this evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Ive first considered that Miss H had no valid chargeback rights because Mastercard 
significantly limits chargeback options for payments towards investments or gambling.
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974
Im satisfied the payments to CFD Corporate via H and P are recoverable via a claim under 
s.75. 
To summarise there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Ill deal with each requirement or exclusion in turn. First, there doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that a credit card account is a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement under the 
Act. 
Im also satisfied that there is nothing that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain in 
relation to the deposit transactions. Miss H paid CFD Corporate via H and P which appeared 
to be acting in the capacity of payment processors. Where a payment processor is used in a 
credit card transaction, it doesnt break the debtor-creditor-supplier chain, it just creates a 
four-party agreement. Weve published final decisions on this issue.   
Ive noted Tesco Banks suggestion that Miss H ought to be able to establish that H and P 
operated in the capacity of payment processors, I dont agree. Miss H has provided receipts 
from CFD Corporate acknowledging receipt of the payments and explained her trading 
account with CFD Corporate was credited after each payment to H and P. Shes provided as 
much evidence as she reasonably can. Tesco Bank on the other hand operated within the 
same payment network as H and P and are better placed to provide further information if it 
didnt agree that H and P were simply processing payments on behalf of CFD Corporate. 
Im satisfied Miss Hs payments to CFD Corporate financed their agreement  which was 
that CFD Corporate would invest her deposits and Miss H would earn profits. CFD Corporate 
told Miss H that she could withdraw funds as soon as she turned a profit. 
Im further satisfied that Miss Hs claim relates to the transaction in that she feels she was 
tricked into depositing the payment with CFD Corporate for the dual purpose of:
a) Stealing the deposit money; and
b) Encouraging Miss H to deposit larger amounts. 
Miss H does not believe that CFD Corporate was operating legitimately and believes she 
was misled into thinking they were.
This claim  that Miss H was misled into depositing funds is clearly a claim in relation to the 
deposit-transactions. The claim must also be one for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract.  In this case, if Miss H was told by CFD Corporate matters that were factually untrue in order to trick her into entering into the deposit-transaction, her claim would be for 
misrepresentation. Or, if CFD Corporate made binding promises to her as part of that 
transaction and went on to breach these that would make her claim one for breach of 
contract.  
Finally, the claim mustnt relate to a single item to which the seller has attached a cash price 
of less than £100 or more than £30,000. Here, the cash price of the deposit-transactions is 
the value of each deposit-transaction. It is both the consideration and subject matter of the 
contract. 
Im satisfied CFD Corporate told Miss H they operated a legitimate enterprise and that she 
could achieve returns of more than her deposit-transactions. Miss H was induced into 
entering into an agreement with CFD Corporate on the basis of these claims. Once Miss H 
exhausted her available funds with Bank A, Im persuaded CFD Corporate instructed her to 
use her available credit to pay them. They also advised her to increase her available credit 
limit with Tesco Bank  which Ive noted she did in order to facilitate the payments. 
There is supporting evidence in the form of regulator warnings, including one published by 
the FCA on 26 June 2018 (prior to all of Miss Hs Tesco Bank payments). The FCA also 
uploaded this warning to the International Organization of Securities Commissions Investor 
Alerts Portal on the same day. 
There are also negative reviews online that echo Miss Hs testimony. CFD Corporate was 
also not regulated by the FCA (as required) or any other jurisdiction as far as Im reasonably 
aware at the time of Miss Hs payments to them. 
Taking all of this together, I dont think its likely CFD Corporate was operating a legitimate 
enterprise. This means that I think they have made misrepresentations to Miss H  
specifically that they were running a genuine enterprise through which she could ever have 
got back more than her deposit from the platform. Im also satisfied that if Miss H had known 
this, she wouldnt have deposited any money, so she was induced into the contract on the 
basis of these misrepresentations.
What damage was caused by the misrepresentation 
The legal test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, where a person has been 
fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction, he is entitled to recover from the wrongdoer 
all the damage directly flowing from the transaction: Smith New Court Securities v 
Scrimgeour Vickers (Asset Management) [1997] AC 254. This implies two hurdles that must 
be surmounted before any item of loss becomes recoverable from the wrongdoer:
a) The loss would not have been suffered if the relevant transaction had not been 
entered into between the parties. This is the factual but for test for causation.
And
b) The loss must be the direct consequence of that transaction (whether or not it was 
foreseeable) or be the foreseeable consequence of the transaction. 
Transaction fee
The transaction fees linked to each deposit-transaction is somewhat straight forward to 
cover off. Had each deposit-transaction not have occurred the transaction fee attached to 
them couldnt have occurred. The transaction fees were a direct consequence of each 
deposit-transaction. As the payment was made outside of the UK, its foreseeable that a 
bank used by Miss H to make the deposit would attach a fee for converting the payment. So, Im satisfied Miss Hs payments of the transaction fees were consequential losses in 
misrepresentation. 
Breach of contract 
Here, Miss H has deposited funds with CFD Corporate in exchange for being able to use 
those funds on an investment platform and being able to withdraw them once she reached a 
profit. Given the exchange of money in return for certain contractual promises  Im satisfied 
there was a transaction (the deposit-transactions) as defined by s.75.
It follows, I think, that CFD Corporate had contractual obligations:
a) To enable Miss H to use the funds from her deposit-transactions on an investment 
platform;
and 
b) To enable Miss H to withdraw the funds deposited as and when she wished.
It would appear that Miss H lost the funds in her trading account before she could make a 
withdrawal. 
Unlike our Investigator, I do not agree that a breach of contract has been established. Whilst 
this differs to our Investigators initial opinion, it makes no material difference to the outcome 
because I agree with our Investigator that a claim for misrepresentation is the most 
appropriate in this instance. 
Putting things right
Ive established one ground Miss H could have recovered her deposit-transactions:
Misrepresentation: Im satisfied Miss H has a claim for misrepresentation on the 
grounds that CFD Corporate made a series of misrepresentations, namely that they 
were operating a legitimate enterprise and that Miss H could earn a profit from her 
deposit-transactions. Im also satisfied that the deposit-transaction fees meet the test 
for consequential losses in misrepresentation as they wouldnt have been incurred 
but for the deposit-transactions. They were also direct and foreseeable losses as a 
result of the each deposit-transaction. 
Tesco Bank should put Miss H back into the position she would have been had the deposit-
transactions had not been entered into and the transaction fees had not been charged by 
Tesco Bank. So, she should receive refunds of these amounts, less any amounts credited to 
her Tesco Mastercard credit card by CFD Corporate.
My final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC should:
Refund the deposit-transactions, less any amounts credited to Miss Hs Tesco Bank 
credit card account by CFD Corporate; 
Refund the transaction fees; 
Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement.
If Tesco Bank deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Miss H with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman