DRN-2836208
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt taken responsibility for an issue with his 
car that occurred after a road traffic accident.
What happened
In 2019, Mr C was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident where a third party reversed 
into his car. Mr C made a claim through his car insurance, underwritten by Aviva, to have his 
car repaired. Mr C said there was a juddering relating to his transmission that only became 
present after the accident. The repairing garage observed this juddering.
After Mr C received his car back he explained the juddering was still present, he also 
explained this led to his car breaking down. Mr C also experienced the car pulling to one 
side and returned the car to be repaired for tracking and alignment. Despite returning the 
car, neither the juddering or the alignment issues have been resolved.
Aviva said that the juddering and transmission issue isnt accident related, so it wont cover 
the cost of a new clutch, which Mr C says the car needs. Aviva did say that the alignment 
issue shouldve been explored more. It had already paid Mr C £200 in total to have the 
alignment investigated and resolved, it also offered £50 for the trouble and upset for Mr C 
being given some incorrect information. Aviva has since offered to pay for more investigative 
work to be carried out  specifically for the tyres to be switched over and another alignment 
test to be carried out to see what may be causing the issue. Aviva has also offered an 
additional £100 compensation for the issues Mr C has experienced in trying to get the issue 
resolved.
Our investigator felt the offer Aviva made was fair and reasonable. He explained that our role 
is to look at whether Aviva has acted fairly based on the evidence in relation to the 
transmission issue. And the evidence Aviva had from both its engineer and a garage 
specialising in the make of Mr Cs car was that the transmission issue wasnt accident 
related. The investigator also pointed out that Avivas engineer concluded the alignment 
issue could be caused by a number of things, but felt it was fair for Aviva to have offered to 
pay for more investigative work to be done to determine this.
Mr C disagreed. He said that no alternative has been offered as to why he now has 
transmission issues, and he feels that its highly likely this was caused by the accident and 
Aviva should investigate why its happening. As such, hed like Aviva to pay for the clutch 
replacement. He also feels the issue with the alignment has caused him considerable stress 
and worry, and it shouldve been resolved already. Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint so it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to determine whether Aviva has acted fairly when dealing with Mr Cs car 
insurance claim. Its not my role to determine whether the issues with Mr Cs car are 
accident related, but rather whether Aviva has reached its conclusions based on the 
evidence available. Having considered this, I think Aviva has acted fairly, and the offer it has 
made is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Transmission issue/juddering
Mr C has explained that he only started having the issue with his car juddering after the 
accident. And I can see that he reported this when the car went in for repairs. Mr C believes 
it must be accident related, and in any event, if Aviva doesnt think this is the case, it needs 
to explain what caused the issue.
Avivas senior engineer gave a report to say that the issue with the transmission wasnt 
accident related. He explained that the impact happened when the third party reversed at 
low speed, and whilst this caused the damage to the bonnet and grille, he didnt think it was 
sufficient to cause damage to the gear box. Mr C doesnt agree and said general 
engineering principles would suggest that the impact caused the damage. Aviva has also 
provided a report from an independent garage that specialises in the make of Mr Cs car. 
This report says that there is no fault stored in the gearbox or engine and that the issue isnt 
accident related. Based on the evidence of the engineer and the garage, I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to conclude that the issue with the transmission wasnt caused by the 
accident.
I understand Mr Cs frustration that Aviva wont replace his clutch, particularly as it hasnt 
been able to tell him why hes experiencing the issue. But Avivas role is to ensure the 
accident damage is repaired, and as the expert evidence suggests that this issue isnt 
related to the accident, its not Avivas role to do anything more. And I dont think this is 
unreasonable.
Alignment
Its clear there is a problem with Mr Cs wheel alignment and tracking in his car. And when 
Mr C raised this with Aviva and the garage, it took time to get anything resolved. I was 
pleased to see that Aviva paid Mr C £200 to get the issue looked into and repaired. The 
issue now is that it has yet to be resolved.
Avivas engineer said that there are a number of things that could be affecting Mr Cs wheel 
alignment, and it acknowledged that it could have done more earlier to look into the problem. 
It also acknowledged that it gave Mr C incorrect information about when wheel alignment 
would be checked. I can see its offered Mr C £150 compensation for this which I think is 
reasonable. I understand that Mr C wouldve been frustrated by having to continue to contact 
Aviva, and its approved repairer, to get this issue resolved. But Im also mindful that Aviva 
had already paid Mr C to have the issue investigated and repaired. And that the ongoing 
issue was unforeseen at the outset. However, Aviva has suggested more investigative work 
should be carried out, and it couldve done this earlier so I think £150 compensation for this 
is fair and reasonable.
Aviva has also said it will pay for the labour and alignment test to switch Mr Cs tyres around 
and test whether that could be an issue causing the alignment issue. I think this is fair and 
reasonable as it is something that couldve been done whilst Mr Cs car was still at the 
approved repairer when Mr C raised the issue. But I dont think Aviva should do anything 
more than its offered. Theres no guarantee at this point that the alignment issue is related 
to the accident damage, or the repair carried out by Avivas approved repairers. So, it 
wouldnt be fair for me to ask Aviva to pay for any remedial work at this stage. Aviva has said it would pay for the investigative work listed above to be done and I think, at this stage, that 
is fair and reasonable.
I understand Mr C will be disappointed with this decision, but I dont think Aviva needs to do 
more than its offered. It is fair for Aviva to rely on the evidence it has to determine that the 
transmission issue isnt related to the accident. And I think the offer it has made of £150 
compensation along with the offer to investigate the wheel alignment issue is fair and 
reasonable  on top of the money it has already paid to Mr C. 
Putting things right
The offer Aviva Insurance Limited made is fair and reasonable. As some of this hasnt been 
paid yet, Aviva Insurance Limited must now:
- Pay Mr C £150 compensation
- Upon receipt of a quote or invoice, pay Mr C the amount to switch his tyres and carry 
out wheel alignment testing
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, the offer Aviva Insurance Limited made is fair and 
reasonable. Upon Mr Cs acceptance of this decision, it must follow the instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman