DRN-2274971
The complaint
Mr M complains about the behaviour of Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax, referred to 
as the business. 
Hes unhappy about the business refusal to close his Help to Buy ISA (the ISA), following 
instructions from his mother who he appointed as his Power of Attorney (POA) while he was 
away working. 
Mr M says that as result of the business actions, hes lost out on a £1,000 government 
incentive and had to pay extra in legal fees.  
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The communication from the business wasnt unreasonable given the challenges it 
faced from the Covid19 restrictions and Mr M being on a ship abroad, and non-
contactable on the phone. In the circumstances, overall, the communication was 
reasonable.
Despite Mr Ms request to communicate via WhatsApp, the business wasnt at fault 
for not being able to do so because it didnt have the facilities for this.  
The business made clear why it couldnt accept the POA and provided referral rights 
in case Mr M wanted to refer his complaint to our service. Overall it dealt with the 
issue reasonably.
The POA gave Mr Ms mother the power to: act on your behalf in connection with the 
purchase of property in Scotland, and that upon such terms and such price as your 
attorney may think proper, and to grant, execute and deliver any deed or document 
necessary or appropriate.
The POA didnt give Mr Ms mother authority to deal with his ISA which - although 
broadly linked to a house buy  is a separate financial product. She didnt have 
authority to specifically deal with his financial affairs.  
The branch manager even spoke with Mr Ms solicitor to clarify what it would need in 
order to act on his mothers instructions.  
Despite what Mr M says, the business behaviour is in-line with its terms and 
conditions. Under the heading Can someone else operate your account?, it said: 
show us a power of attorney, signed by you, which authorises them to operate your 
account. But Mr Ms mother didnt have this.  
In the circumstances, the business isnt responsible for any losses Mr M may have 
suffered. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary he said:
He doesnt accept that the communication from the business was reasonable. He 
never had one person that he could deal with as a point of contact. All the 
communication happened after the sale of the property on 20 March 2020. 
He doesnt understand why the POA was unacceptable for the business when it was 
enough for the mortgage provider and thats the main reason for his upset. 
Although in a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 23 April 2020, the business said:
oIt was confirmed the document provided authority for your mother to act on 
your behalf in relation to the purchase of a property and any relevant 
documents required to complete this. It did not stipulate that she had been 
given authority to deal with your other financial affairs. As such, it could not be 
used to give instructions about your account. Surely, Any relevant 
document allowed his mother to close the ISA. 
His mother wasnt at any point asked to deal with his finances other than to do with 
the purchase of his property. 
The POA was enough for his mother to deal with his affairs in the past. 
Our investigator having considered Mr Ms response wasnt persuaded to change his mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, Im unable to say that 
the business was wrong not to accept his mothers instructions to close his ISA, despite her 
having the POA. I also dont think the business communication with Mr M was 
unreasonable. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Ms 
strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support this 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr M and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and 
reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, 
but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, 
whats more likely than not to have happened.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, I cant safely say that 
the wording of the POA is worded well enough such that the business was wrong to refuse 
to accept it as authority to close his ISA account.  
I note in the terms and conditions under Section I  Can someone else operate your 
account? it states:17.1 If you want or need someone else to operate your account, you must generally either 
sign a form we give you or show us a power of attorney, signed by you, which authorises 
them to operate your account
17.3 For security reasons, we may not allow another person access to all of the services 
we provide to you. If we do allow them to use a service, you can tell them your security 
details as long as they agree to keep them safe. My underline emphasis added. 
In the circumstances, Im unable to safely say that the POA authorised Mr Ms mother to 
operate his ISA account in line with the business terms and conditions. So, I cant say the 
business was wrong to refuse to register it. I note the business said: 
It did not stipulate that she had been given authority to deal with your financial affairs. As 
such, it could not be used to give instructions about our account. 
The line that Mr M relies on from the FRL dated 23 April 2020  any relevant documents 
doesnt actually say that his mother has authority to close his ISA account. In my opinion her 
request to do so also doesnt involve her in granting, executing or delivering any deed or 
document relating to the house purchase, so I dont think the business was wrong to refuse 
Mr Ms mothers instructions based on the wording of the POA. 
I note an appointment was arranged for Mr Ms mother to attend the branch which she did 
with Mr Ms solicitor and the branch manager explained that it was unable to register the 
POA as it was. So, Im not sure why the business said that Mr Ms mother called up and 
cancelled the appointment the day before, evidently this wasnt the case. I think its likely to 
have been an oversight, but I dont think this effects Mr Ms overall complaint.  
I appreciate what Mr M says about the business accepting a POA in the past along with the 
mortgage provider. But despite what he says, in this case Im only considering the actions of 
the business in relation to this POA, and not past events or the actions of a third-party which 
may be subject to different terms and conditions.  
I note Mr M says his mother wasnt at any point asked to deal with his finances other than to 
do with the purchase of his property. But a mortgage, unlike his ISA, was inextricably linked 
to his specific property.
 
Whilst I appreciate it was a help to buy ISA, and could be used to buy a house, Mr M was 
still free to do whatever he wanted with it. So, despite its name, Im not persuaded that the 
ISA (unlike his mortgage) was specifically to do with the house purchase in Scotland, such 
that his mother was authorised to deal with it under the POA. So, in the circumstances, I 
cant say that the business is responsible for any losses Mr M may have suffered. 
I appreciate what Mr M says about the communication with the business and not having a 
single point of contact. But given the challenges faced by the business as a result of Covid19 
 such as a limited work force, remote and varied working hours, and not always having 
secure email  on balance Im unable to say that the business has behaved unreasonably. 
Aside from the initial delay in providing an answer to Mr Ms complaint I note the business 
has corresponded with him via email in a reasonable amount of time. 
Im aware that on 20 April 2020 the business emailed Mr M asking for further information 
(previously requested on 18 March 2020  two days after he initially complained). The 
business also requested an update on a new POA  which it said it would need, in order to 
close his ISA.  I note Mr M responded the same day and asked to know why his POA hadnt been 
registered and whether the business was willing to pay the government incentive he lost, he 
sent a chaser email the next day copying in his solicitor. Mr M was then notified of his 
complaint being logged with a complaints manager.   
I note a complaint manager also wrote to Mr M on 20 April 2020  at his registered UK 
address  apologising for not being able to provide an answer to his complaint (after 35 
working days) and giving him referral rights to our service. Whilst I appreciate Mr M was 
abroad, the business was still obliged to notify him about the status of his complaint. Theres 
also nothing to stop the business from providing referral rights (as its required to) whilst 
continuing to investigate a complaint. It seems that Mr M was still getting the information 
conveyed to him possibly by his mother.
I note a complaint manager emailed Mr M on 21 April 2020, asking him to confirm that he 
was unable to speak on the phone, and seeking clarification of further issues. Mr M 
responded and said that he was stuck abroad but confirmed that he had internet access and 
could be contacted via WhatsApp. But unfortunately for him this wasnt a service that the 
business provided, and I cant blame it for not being able to do so. 
Another complaint manager sent an FRL dated 23 April 2020  again to his registered UK 
address  rejecting his complaint. In the circumstances, I dont think the business was wrong 
to try and give Mr M an answer to his complaint. In any case, Mr M responded on 29 April 
2020, to which the business sent another FRL dated 15 June 2020, rejecting the complaint 
and addressing his further concerns.   
In the circumstances  with Covid19 restrictions and Mr M being non-contactable by phone 
abroad  Im unable to say that the business didnt take reasonable steps to communicate 
with him and deal with his complaint. 
I appreciate Mr M will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I 
realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im unable 
to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman