DRN-3082723
The complaint
The estate of Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt fairly compensated it for 
mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) with a mortgage because it believes the 
calculation is wrong.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint are known to both parties 
and arent disputed  the dispute is about the amount of the refund  so I wont repeat 
everything here. In summary:
Barclays didnt uphold the alleged PPI mis-sale complaint brought by The estate of Mr C; 
but it said because of the non-disclosure of high commission and profit share it agreed to 
pay back some of the money the late Mr C paid for PPI.
An ombudsman at the Financial Ombudsman Service decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. 
But they directed Barclays to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to The estate of Mr C 
as Barclays had offered to do and that this was a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
The estate of Mr C was unhappy with the offer of compensation Barclays made for two 
key reasons: firstly because it appeared that the calculation only included payments to 
2012 when The estate of Mr C provided bank statements to show payments continued to 
be made in 2014; and secondly the offer appeared lower than expected given what 
Barclays said the commission rate was. The estate of Mr Cs calculation showed a 
refund figure of several hundred pounds more.
The adjudicator looked at all of this and said Barclays had carried out the calculation 
correctly using all of the premiums paid over the life of the policy, which was from 2000 
to 2014. They also said that the commission rate quoted by Barclays was the highest 
point reached between 2000 and 2014. They said the commission rates varied over time 
and this had been taken into account in the calculation. Overall they said the offer was 
fair.
Because The estate of Mr C disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I understand The estate of Mr C will be disappointed, Ive decided not 
to uphold this complaint. I think Barclays offer of compensation is fair in the circumstances 
and my reasons are set out below.
Firstly and for the avoidance of doubt, this decision is not concerned with the sale of PPI  
an ombudsman at this Service has already decided the policy was not mis-sold. 
But the ombudsman also said that Barclays should pay to The estate of Mr C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. This is 
because Barclays didnt tell the late Mr C that it would get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the policy premium) which was unfair. This comes from the 
The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship.
It is this calculation that The estate of Mr C says hasnt been carried out correctly - so my 
decision only concerns this matter.
I can see that The estate of Mr C is firstly concerned that Barclays has only included the 
premiums the late Mr C paid until 2012 in its calculation when it has provided evidence that 
premiums were paid beyond this into 2014. 
It is the case that one of Barclays records erroneously shows a policy end date of 2012. But 
it is not the case that Barclays compensation calculation was based on this recorded end 
date. Barclays has also provided a comprehensive suite of the late Mr Cs bank statements, 
which show PPI premiums were paid until the policy ended towards the end of 2014. And 
this corresponds with what The estate of Mr C has also provided. So there is no dispute 
about the period during which PPI premiums were paid.
Looking at Barclays offer of compensation letter to The estate of Mr C in May 2021 - it did 
not say that the calculation was based on premiums paid up until 2012. It appears The 
estate of Mr C was told by an adjudicator during a phone call that Barclays systems showed 
2012 was the policy end date. I think this is when The estate of Mr Cs concern about the 
compensation amount first arose.
But based on all the evidence presented, I think Barclays has included all PPI premiums 
paid between the policy start date in 2000 to when it ended in 2014. Ive not seen anything to 
persuade me that it has disregarded the premiums paid after 2012.  
The estate of Mr Cs second concern is about the percentage of commission Barclays has 
used in its calculation. The estate of Mr C says based on what Barclays said the commission 
and profit share percentage figure was, its own calculation produces a refund figure of 
several hundred pounds more.
Ive looked at how The estate of Mr C has produced its own calculation. And having done so, 
I can see it is too simplistic in its approach. I say this because the commission and profit 
share percentage figure quoted by Barclays was the highest at a given point. Its not the 
case that it was always at this level. 
Because the percentage figures varied over time and this was a regular premium PPI policy, 
the calculation involves using the differing amounts. Weve also looked at how Barclays has 
been calculating its commission and profit share rates and we think its fair.
So taking everything into account, I think Barclays has calculated The estate of Mr Cs 
compensation correctly  it is line with what I would expect to see - and so represents fair 
compensation in the circumstances.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipI understand that Barclays has already paid The estate of Mr C (and the estate has cashed 
the cheque)  so theres nothing more Barclays needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided that Barclays Bank UK PLCs PPI compensation 
payment to The estate of Mr C is fair - so I dont uphold this complaint.
As Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made payment to The estate of Mr C, I consider 
there is nothing more it needs to do.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means I will 
not engage in any further discussion on the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman