DRN-3395295
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund her transactions on her account 
that she says she didnt authorise.
What happened
Miss G opened an account with Barclays. While she waited for the card and PIN to arrive, 
she had £4,000 transferred to it.
After a few weeks, Miss G says shed still not received the card and PIN and so contacted 
Barclays to enquire regarding this. Miss G later realised all of the money in the account had 
been withdrawn via multiple cash withdrawals.
Miss G was unhappy with this and thought the card and PIN had been intercepted by a third-
party. She asked Barclays to reimburse the funds lost.
Barclays didnt agree. Upon investigation, it concluded that the transactions didnt follow a 
pattern of fraud. It held Miss G liable for the transactions and didnt refund them.
Miss G remained unhappy with the outcome and asked our service to look into her complaint 
again. An Investigator looked into the evidence provided by both parties but concluded that 
Barclays hadnt made an error. Broadly speaking, they felt that it was more likely than not 
that Miss G had authorised the transactions in dispute.
Miss G disagreed with the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In short, the Payment Services Regulations 2017 set out that a withdrawal from a customers 
account can only be authorised if the payer has consented to it. Generally, this means that 
account holders will be liable for withdrawals theyve authorised, and banks will be liable for 
withdrawals theyve not.
Here, Miss G claims that shed not authorised nine cash withdrawals made via ATMs as 
shed not even received the card and PIN for the newly opened account. She believes that 
the likely explanation is that someone intercepted them in transit to her home address and 
carried out the transactions without her authority.
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by both parties, Im persuaded that 
Miss G did likely authorise the transactions in dispute.
Its not contested that Miss G opened the account and had £4,000 deposited into it. She 
claims that the account was opened as a savings account for her dependants and the 
money was transferred into the account by a family member whod owed her the £4,000. 
I find it unusual that Miss G would instruct payment to an account intended for savings rather 
than her main account held with a third-party bank. Miss G had not yet received the card and 
PIN for the account and claimed when reporting the disputed transactions that she needed 
the money for everyday use. This does place a question mark over why it was sent to this 
account in the first place if it wasnt intended for the accounts purpose.
Ive also considered some additional unusual features of this complaint that arent consistent 
with a third-party fraud.
Prior to the card and PIN being received, an online banking profile was set up on the 
account. Once set up, the online banking was used to increase the daily withdrawal limit 
from £300 per day to £500 prior to card and PIN being sent to Miss Gs home address. 
Miss G has admitted to performing this withdrawal limit increase as she says she does this 
with all of her accounts.
The card and PIN were then sent to Miss Gs home address in two separate envelopes on 
two separate dates. Had a third-party been responsible for stealing these envelopes, this 
means either:
They were aware of the account set-up and anticipated the delivery on both dates the 
envelopes were sent, or;
They were an opportunist thief and happened to be in the right place at the right time 
when the envelopes were both delivered. 
I find both of these scenarios unlikely. Miss G doesnt live with anyone that is likely to have 
stolen the envelopes and it would be unlikely that an opportunist thief would have been able 
to intercept two envelopes on two separate dates having not known when these would be 
delivered or that they related to a card and PIN. Id also have expected Miss G to have 
reported the theft of other mail, given that an opportunist thief would have been unaware of 
the contents of specific envelopes.
Furthermore, the pattern of the transactions isnt in line with an opportunist thiefs actions. 
Had a third-party managed to steal Miss Gs card and PIN from her post-box, I find it unlikely 
that theyd wait each day to withdraw cash from the account until the account was empty. 
Criminals are very much alive to the fact that quick withdrawal of the funds is necessary to 
maximize gain, as discovery of the funds being withdrawn leads to blocks on the card and no 
further access to the funds within. It is common practice in scenarios such as this that the 
criminal would take all of the funds from the account as quickly as possible and not over a 
period of seven days.
I also find it unusual that the person making the withdrawals was aware of the cash 
withdrawal limit increase. From the very first withdrawal, £500 was taken from the account 
on almost every occasion. I question how a third-party not authorised to use the account 
would have known of this limit from the beginning. 
Its not my intention to accuse Miss G of any wrongdoing. But the combined factors above 
persuade me, on the balance of probabilities, that Miss G has likely authorised the 
transactions in dispute. I realise that this may come as a disappointment to Miss G as shes 
strongly maintained she didnt authorise these transactions throughout. But I must weigh the 
evidence carefully and consider what I find to be the most likely scenario in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman