DRN-3545244
The complaint
Mr O complains about problems hes encountered when using the eToro (UK) Ltd app.
What happened
Mr O had a trading account with eToro. He complained when he was unable to edit his 
positions using the app. He said when he went to set a stop loss he had to edit the position, 
exit the app and reset it and do the stop loss again. Hes explained this is clearly an error 
with the app and complained.
eToro explained that it investigated the issue but didnt find any errors, it said it saw 
connectivity issues on Mr Os end. Our Investigator explained that he could see Mr O was 
having a problem, but he was able to carry out his actions on the website. He also said he 
couldnt be certain what was causing the issue and didnt have enough evidence to say 
eToro was at fault.
Mr O disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision. He said:
- It couldnt have been connectivity issues as he was able to perform other functions 
on the app.
- eToro hasnt investigated properly as they gave him the same response twice.
- Mr O feels hes been affected mentally by losing money that wasnt his fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint for similar reasons to our Investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Its clear Mr O experienced some problems in carrying out actions on the eToro app, but its 
not clear what was causing those issues. However, Mr O was able to edit his positions and 
set a stop loss on the website so Im satisfied he was able to do what he wanted to do. Ive 
not seen any evidence that hes suffered a financial loss. 
In any event, Ive not seen evidence to show that eToro was responsible for the issues Mr O 
encountered. I can see eToro investigated the issue and asked Mr O relevant information to 
do so. It didnt find any issues with the app but explained it saw Mr O may have had 
connectivity issues. I appreciate Mr O doesnt accept this result, but Ive not got evidence to 
suggest that theres a problem with eToros app in general.
I think the issues Mr O was experiencing wouldve caused some frustration. But eToro had 
other methods available to Mr O  which I can see he used. Theres no guarantee that 
everything will work at all times, especially when dependent on technology. And Im satisfied 
that as Mr O had an ability to edit his trades through another method, that he hasnt lost out 
here or is due any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman