DRN-3245141
The complaint
Mr M complains about advice received from St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc 
(SJP) to invest in a series of Enterprise Investment Schemes (EIS).
What happened
Mr M took out three consecutive EISs in 2014, 2015 and 2016 for £40,000, £40,000 and 
£45,000 respectively. Mr M said SJP led him to believe he was entering into three-year 
investments and when each plan matured, he would be able to roll over the proceeds into 
another EIS to secure income tax efficiency. However, the maturity of each of the EISs went 
on to significantly exceed this timeline. Mr M also said he was exposed to more risk than he 
had intended to take. He felt the risks and volatility of the EISs were not fully explained to 
him. He also recalled raising concerns at the time about the EIS declarations but was 
assured that the investments were safe and the forms were for compliance. Mr M relied 
upon the advice provided by his adviser, whom had he known for many years and believed 
that he had been misled. Mr M seeks compensation for the losses he has sustained.
SJP denied that any guarantee was given about a three-year term, the EISs were medium to 
long-term investments. SJP relied upon the information contained within the Information 
Memorandums (IMs) for each EIS and the EIS declarations signed by Mr M, which 
highlighted that the investments were high risk and illiquid. They maintained it was 
reasonable to expect Mr M to have familiarised himself with this information. Mr M had 
investment experience and less than 5% of his investable wealth was invested on each 
occasion. Whilst Mr Ms attitude to risk had been lower for other investments, SJP 
maintained that he had been prepared to take more risk for tax advantages in respect of 
these investments.
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided to uphold it. She thought that Mr M 
had only been prepared to take more risk with the investments on the basis he could meet 
his objective of exiting after three years and investing again for tax relief. She wasnt 
persuaded that Mr M had a proper understanding of the way the investments worked and the 
high risks of the strategy. Our investigator thought the adviser had led Mr M to believe he 
could utilise a three year, rolling investment strategy and shared with SJP, a series of emails 
in which Mr Ms understanding was set out. Further, she noted it was common ground that 
the adviser was aware Mr M was unhappy signing the EIS declarations at the time and it 
wasnt enough for the adviser to expect Mr M to read the product literature. Overall, she 
didnt think Mr M was made properly aware of the liquidity risks and the recommendation 
failed to meet his objectives. Along with recommending compensation for financial loss, our 
investigator also awarded £300 for distress and inconvenience resulting from the 
shortcomings with the recommendations.
SJP disagreed with the view. They maintained that Mr M had been prepared to take a higher 
risk with these investments and his clear motivation was income tax relief. They pointed out 
that Mr M went onto invest in similar high-risk products and concluded it was likely Mr M 
would have invested even if the EISs had a longer minimum term. Given Mr Ms professional 
background it was reasonable to have expected him to have understood the information 
provided by the product providers. And whilst Mr M had raised some concern with the EIS 
declarations, ultimately, he had proceeded with the investments. SJP maintained that the 
risks were made clear.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As SJP recommended this strategy of investment, Ive considered whether the advice was 
suitable for Mr M. As at 2014, Mr M held over £1million in bonds, £29,682 in an ISA and 
£39,688 in a Unit Trust Feeder Account. He also held £125,000 in cash and had recently set 
up on a self-employed basis. He was advised to invest £40,000 into an EIS with an £1,200 
initial adviser charge. After other funds were provided to family, this left £23,600 on deposit. 
Mr Ms financial position was broadly similar in 2015 and 2016, where he invested £40,000 
and then £45,000 in different EISs.
Mr M said his attitude to risk was usually medium/lower medium and he hadnt intended to 
expose himself to high risk. Whilst SJP didnt dispute Mr Ms other investments had a lower 
risk profile, they maintained that Mr M had agreed to take a higher level of risk above his 
usual risk profile, to secure tax advantages. 
I agree that the suitability letters each say Mr M had agreed to undertake a higher level of 
risk to secure tax advantages, but Ive balanced that against Mr Ms understanding of the 
investment strategy advanced by his adviser, namely, that he was entering into a series of 
three-year investments. 
Mr M is clear that his objective was to create three yearly rolling investments, whereby he 
could utilise the income tax benefits offered by EIS and re-invest at the three-year point of 
exit. On balance, I consider it is likely that the adviser led Mr M to believe that the EISs met 
this objective, thats evident from 2014 suitability letter which said Mr M was looking to keep 
invested in an EIS to receive tax advantages in the future, further, it was recorded that Mr M 
intended, to use your investment to generate a lump sum in three years time, but it is your 
intention to keep reinvesting into an EIS every three years to benefit from tax relief and 
Capital Tax Gains deferral. Ive also seen correspondence in which the adviser agreed he 
set out an expectation that once Mr M had exited the investment he could roll it into a further 
EIS to claim tax relief again, and so on and so on.
The March 2015 suitability letter referred to investment for the medium term, but also spoke 
about the aim and objective of preserving capital over the three-year period. On balance, Im 
persuaded that Mr M relied on discussions with his adviser and that the rolling strategy 
discussed in 2014 remained the overarching, recommended approach for each EIS. This is 
supported in an email from Mr M to his adviser in February 2016, where discussion took 
place about investing in a VCT (with a 5 year exit point), Mr M raised concern that the VCT 
time line might mess up the tax planning said to be agreed as:
1st EIS-2013/14 Tax Year
2nd EIS-2014/15 Tax Year
3rd EIS 2015/2016 Tax Year?
1st EIS renew/2nd ESI renew ++As we discussed the plan was to run a rolling set of EIS funds to cover annual taxes . . . if 
we go with VCT how will this work? (Presumably I would need 5 VCTs?  which means 
£200K tied up in high risk?
Ive seen that the third suitability letter also referred to investing for five years or longer, but 
Im not persuaded that the underlying investment strategy had changed, given the 
consistency of Mr Ms testimony supported by the above. And that the actual investment 
timeline he followed was consistent with the original plan to take out three EIS products in 
successive years. Further, in email correspondence with the adviser in 2019, Mr Ms again 
raised his dissatisfaction that the three-year investment timeframe had been exceeded and 
the maturity timelines were not reflective of the advice/expectation given at inception.
Ive also noted that the suitability letters contained some errors such as the 2015 referring to 
an objective of achieving higher levels of capital growth, whereas the objective for this EIS 
was to preserve capital. Further, the adviser acknowledged there were errors in the third 
suitability letter, leading to a second letter being sent in June 2016, confirming that the main 
objective was income tax relief. 
Mr M has explained that this rolling investment objective was also part of his school fees 
planning and had he been aware that his funds risked being tied up for much longer periods 
he wouldnt have invested in each EIS. On balance, Im persuaded this is likely. Ive seen 
correspondence from the adviser in which he agreed that Mr Ms goal was to fund school 
fees and mitigate tax. Mr Ms position is captured in email correspondence from 2018 in 
which he raised concern about the impact of the delay on his ability to meet the school fees. 
Ive considered the evidence in the round and in making my decision on the balance of 
probabilities, Im persuaded that it is more likely than not that Mr Ms recollection of events is 
more reliable. Thats further supported by the fact that the adviser now accepts that Mr M 
raised concerns about the EIS declarations, which the adviser required him to sign. And 
whilst it is common ground that Mr M did decide to proceed with investment into each EIS, 
Mr M is clear that he only did so because the adviser told him not to worry, the form was a 
compliance formality and the investments were safe. So, Im not persuaded its reasonable 
to place weight on that EIS declarations. I think it is more likely than not that Mr M relied 
upon what the adviser told him.
Ive noted SJPs position that weight was placed upon Mr M being a professional and that he 
ought to have identified the risk factors from the IMs for each product. But, as SJP was 
providing professional advice, it was for them to make a suitable recommendation having 
regard to Mr Ms circumstances, attitude to risk, objectives and capacity for loss and 
responsibility fell to the adviser to clearly explain the risks to Mr M. For the reasons set out 
above, Im not persuaded things were made clear. There is nothing to show that the adviser 
explained the high risks of this strategy, which would collapse if the funds within each EIS 
were tied up for an extended period.
Ive seen that Mr M had some capacity for loss. The figures show some funds were being 
retained on deposit and as set out above, Mr M held other assets. But this factor has to be 
considered when assessing suitability in the round. 
On balance, I am persuaded that it is more likely than not that Mr M was misled about the 
realistic timeline for exiting each EIS. I consider, on balance, that investments which risked 
illiquidity of up to four and half years or more were not in line with his objectives and tying the 
funds up exposed him to more risk than he was willing to take. On balance, I am not satisfied 
that Mr M would have proceeded with the investments if he had understood that his funds 
risked being tied up for many more years.In light of the above, I am not satisfied that the recommendations were suitable for Mr Ms 
needs. It follows, that it is fair and reasonable for SJP to put things right for Mr M.
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Ive considered how to put Mr M back into the position hed have 
probably been in if he hadnt been given unsuitable advice, which isnt as straightforward as 
simply refunding the original investment. 
Im mindful that had it not been for the unsuitable advice, Mr M wouldnt have had the 
potential EIS tax relief and he wouldnt have whatever value (if any) the remaining EIS now 
has.
Given the information Mr M has provided, I think hed have invested differently. It isnt 
possible for me to say precisely what he would have done, so Ive considered what I think is 
fair and reasonable given his circumstances and objectives when he invested. Im 
persuaded by his testimony that if the three-year rolling option had not been available to him, 
he would likely have invested in line with this usual attitude to risk. Ive also considered his 
testimony about the need to access some funds for school fees.
To compensate Mr M fairly, SJP must: 
 Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown below 
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the investment. If the 
actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
 SJP should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus benchmark from (start 
date)To  (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Oxford 
Capital 
Infrastructure
Ingenious 
Shelley 
Media EIS 
Spring 2015Surrendered
Still exists 
but illiquidFTSE WMA 
Stock Market 
Income Total 
Return Index 
and then 
from 1 
March 2017 
the FTSE 
UK Private 
Investor 
Income Total 
Return Index
FTSE WMA 
Stock Market 
Income Total 
Return Index Date of 
investment
Date of 
investmentDate of 
surrender
Date of 
settlement8% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to date of 
settlement 
8% simple 
per year from 
date of 
decision to Ingenious 
InfrastructureSurrenderedand then 
from 1 
March 2017 
the FTSE 
UK Private 
Investor 
Income Total 
Return Index
FTSE WMA 
Stock Market 
Income Total 
Return Index 
and then 
from 1 
March 2017 
the FTSE 
UK Private 
Investor 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
Investment Date of 
surrenderdate of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
being notified 
of 
acceptance)
8% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to date of 
settlement 
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be surrendered or readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to work out what the actual value is. In such a case the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr M agrees to SJP taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wished to. If it is not possible for SJP to take ownership, 
then it can request an undertaking from Mr M that he repays to SJP any amount he might 
receive from the investment in future. 
SJP may also add to the actual value any available tax reliefs Mr M has received by virtue of 
making the investment. It may ask him for evidence of this, or assume he has availed 
himself of all available relief at his marginal rate of tax.
For ease it can calculate the value of the available relief and add it to the actual value as one 
figure at the end.
fair value 
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. 
Any withdrawal from Ingenious Shelley Media Infrastructure should be deducted from the fair
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the 
end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
The Ingenious Shelley Media Infrastructure only exists because of illiquid investments. In 
order for this investment to be closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by 
you taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr M can discuss with the provider 
directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If you are
unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that you 
pay Mr M an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated
using the fee in the previous year to date), if applicable. This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the Ingenious Shelley Media Infrastructure to be closed.
why is this remedy suitable? 
I decided on this method of compensation because: 
 Mr M was willing to accept some investment risk. 
 The WMA index and Private Investor index are made up of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. They would be a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
 Although they are called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough to allow me to use them as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr 
Ms circumstances and risk attitude.
I have also considered that Mr M has suffered distress at being unable to access his funds at 
the point he had expected to. I consider that it is more likely than not that he has suffered 
distress and upset as a result of the advice given and the subsequent locking into an 
investment, which was unsuitable for his needs. In my view it is fair and reasonable to make 
an award of compensation and I consider that £300 is a fair sum.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am upholding this complaint. I direct SJP to put things right for Mr M 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman