DRN-4176939
The complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) will not refund the payments 
he made from his NatWest current account which were subsequently lost to a scam.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, NatWest is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. It is now accepted by both 
parties that Mr T authorised these payments. He transferred the funds to an account 
he set up with another firm (R). From there, they were passed on to the scammer. 
And so, while it is also accepted that Mr T ultimately lost these funds to a scam, the 
starting position is that he is liable for the payments he made. 
However there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment. If NatWest failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
NatWest did, in fact, identify several of these payments as suspicious and it called 
Mr T to question him about them. So I have considered whether NatWest did enough 
to try to protect Mr T during those calls. 
In these intervention calls, Mr T told NatWest he was transferring the payments to his 
own account with R. He confirmed he had set it up recently by himself and had 
control of it. NatWest asked how he found out about R and whether it was a 
recommendation or his own research. He confirmed it was the latter. 
NatWest asked why he was moving money to this other account. He said it was to 
organise his money; it was just personal; and made reference to doing something for 
his mum. During the calls, NatWest also gave Mr T some warnings about various 
types of scams. For example, it asked if anyone had asked him to lie to the bank (he 
confirmed no one had) and explained it would never ask him to do so or ask him to 
transfer money to another account. 
In actual fact, Mr T had been directed to set up the account with R by the scammers 
in order to make cryptocurrency payments. This was not connected to his mum, or a 
matter of simply reorganising his money; it was to make onward payments for 
investing. 
Mr T has said NatWest did not ask him the right questions and did not specifically 
warn him about investment scams when it intervened. But the questioned it asked 
were informed by what information it had  including what it was told by Mr T. 
These were payments going to another account Mr T held, as he told NatWest at the 
time. When NatWest asked him why he was paying the money to this account, he 
made no mention of it being for investing and gave other explanations. And so I do 
not think NatWest had reason to specifically mention investment scams. The 
payment destination, and Mr Ts answers, did not reasonably give an indication that 
he was likely at risk from that type of scam. 
In the circumstances, I therefore do not think NatWest is at fault for failing to prevent 
Mr Ts loss. It asked reasonable questions to establish whether Mr T was at risk from 
fraud, and relied on his responses in determining whether to act on his authorised 
instructions. It could not recover the funds as they had been transferred on from 
Mr Ts account with R on to the scammers.   
I do appreciate what Mr T has told us about his mental state at the time, which he 
considers made him more vulnerable to the scam. I am conscious that scammers 
can use sophisticated techniques to trick and manipulate their victims, and it is 
understandable that this has been an upsetting incident for Mr T. It is the scammers 
who are responsible for this. It was not NatWest who perpetrated this scam nor have 
I found it to be at fault for his loss. From what I have seen, they were not aware in 
advance of any vulnerabilities Mr T was facing such that it ought to have known to 
provide further or different support. 
Mr T is also unhappy with how NatWest handled things when it was looking into the 
scam. For example, he says he was treated like a criminal when he visited branch in 
relation to a block being placed on his account connected to the scam. He has also 
mentioned being unhappy with how some calls were handled by NatWest, and says 
he was not notified of the outcome of his scam claim for some time.
NatWest blocked the account after it received notification of disputed funds being 
paid into Mr Ts account. I consider that reasonable and it has to follow the correct 
processes when such a dispute is reported. It would need to investigate how the 
money came to be in Mr Ts account before it could fairly divulge further details to 
him or remove the block. 
I appreciate how stressful this was for Mr T. But NatWest had explained he would 
need to wait to receive an email from the relevant team. As the matter was not being 
looked into by branch staff, there was not much they could do to assist him. I 
understand that will have been frustrating. But the branch staff say the police were 
called as Mr T shouted and swore at them and refused to leave. And I cannot see 
this has been disputed. 
Overall, NatWest followed the processes I would expect it to when such a notification 
is received. And it was within its rights to take action to protect its staff. While I do not 
doubt the impact this had on Mr T, I do not think NatWest acted unfairly.  
It is for our service to determine what information we need, and I am satisfied I have 
enough information to reach a fair outcome on this case. Here, while Mr T is unhappy 
with NatWests contact regarding the scam, I am satisfied it does not need to take 
any further action to put this right. Ultimately, I have come to the same conclusions 
as NatWest about whether it is liable for his loss. And once it had issued its final 
response, he was able to refer the matter to our service to consider rather than 
pursuing things with the bank directly. I would also clarify that his concerns about 
connected issues  such as about the loan he says was taken out by the scammers, 
and the credit card payments he is disputing  are being considered separately. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr T, who I fully accept has been the victim of a 
cruel and sophisticated scam. But for the reasons given, I am not persuaded NatWest is at 
fault for his loss. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman