DRN-4018949
The complaint
Mr K complains that Starling Bank Limited restricted his current account, which meant he 
was unable to move money. Mr K felt targeted and felt that Starling Bank had acted in a 
discriminatory way when it restricted the account. 
I know Mr K has a business bank account with Starling Bank. However, as the complaint 
before me has been made personally by Mr K  and not by his business  I have only looked 
at the restriction on his personal account and not his business account. 
What happened
On 1 July 2022, following a transaction that was paid into his personal account, Starling 
Bank restricted Mr Ks current account. 
At 3.49pm that day, Starling Bank asked Mr K to provide further information about the 
transaction in question and the person who had made the payment. Mr K responded to the 
request that day and again at 10:26am on 2 July 2022. 
At 12:20pm on 4 July 2022, Starling Bank responded to Mr K and asked him for further 
information. Mr K responded at 12:25 that day with attachments and more information about 
his relationship with the payer. Mr K also explained that he was stranded at home because 
he had no access to any of his funds. 
Starling Bank then requested further information at 2:45pm on 5 July 2022. Mr K responded 
with that further information at 6:54pm on the same day. At 7:46pm on 6 July 2022, Starling 
Bank then responded to Mr K and said that it required copies of all conversations between 
Mr K and the sender of the initial transaction.
At 2:26am on 7 July 2022, Mr K queried the need for this additional information. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Mr K sent the information requested by Starling Bank at this 
stage. He did explain he had incurred late payment penalties for his bills and he thought 
Starling should compensate him for those late penalties. Mr K called Starling Bank later that 
day and said that he had not been able to leave his house for seven days because hed had 
no access to any funds since his account was restricted. Hed had to borrow money from 
family members to pay his bills. 
At 3:53pm on 7 July 2022, Starling Bank sent a message to Mr K to say that it had removed 
the restrictions from his account. Starling Bank said it would not reimburse any of Mr Ks late 
payment fees and so he made a complaint.  The complaint was not upheld and so Mr K 
complained to this service.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr K did not 
agree with that view and so it was passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr K will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid I havent upheld his 
complaint. Ill explain why below. 
I am sorry to learn that Mr K was put to some difficulty when his account was restricted by 
Starling Bank. What Ive looked at in this complaint is whether those difficulties arose from 
something Starling Bank did wrong. 
Starling Bank has a number of legal and regulatory obligations that it needs to follow, and 
those obligations can cause it withhold transactions or block accounts. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions that apply to Mr Ks current account. I can see that they provide for the 
account to be restricted in certain circumstances. I understand Starling Bank had queries 
regarding a particular transaction that was paid into Mr Ks account. Im satisfied the terms 
and conditions provide for the account to be restricted in those circumstances. 
I can see that Starling Bank asked Mr K for various pieces of information over the course of 
the seven days that the account was restricted. That information was so it could find out 
more about why those funds had been paid to Mr K and his relationship with that person. Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for Starling Bank to request the information that it did. 
The account was effectively restricted for seven days. And I can see how this would have 
caused Mr K some considerable inconvenience if he was unable to access his money during 
that time. I know Mr K is likely to disagree, but in all the circumstances of this case, I dont 
think that timeframe was unreasonable. I can also see that it appears Starling Bank lifted 
restrictions on the account even though Mr K did not appear to respond to its request for 
further information on 6 July 2022. 
Ive thought about whether Starling Bank ought to reimburse Mr K for any losses during that 
time. But although I appreciate the restrictions on the account were inconvenient for Mr K, I 
havent found they were unreasonable in all the circumstances. And I can see that the terms 
and conditions for the account make clear that Starling Bank wont accept liability for any 
losses incurred in circumstances such as this. 
I know that in his complaint form, Mr K said he felt targeted and that Starling Bank had 
discriminated against him by trying to tie him in with what may have been going on with the 
person who sent the transaction. Our investigator didnt think Starling Bank had treated Mr K 
differently. 
I can see why Mr K feels Starling Bank did target him and I can see how those feelings 
would have been compounded in the highly stressful situation Mr K was in when he couldnt 
access his funds. But having looked at all the evidence very carefully, I cant reasonably say 
Starling Bank did target Mr K or act in a discriminatory way. I think it acted in line with its 
obligations and the terms and conditions that apply to Mr Ks account. 
I know Mr K is likely to be disappointed with my decision. And I do very much appreciate the 
difficulty he was put to between 1 and 7 July 2022. But Im satisfied Starling Bank didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably in all the circumstances of this case. I hope that it helps Mr K to 
know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Starling Bank Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman