DRN-3820069
The complaint
Mr W complained about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) who were unable to repair his 
boiler, following a claim under his home emergency cover. 
What happened
Mr W held a home emergency policy with BG, that covered repairs to his boiler amongst 
other things. He contacted BG as he noticed that the boiler was leaking. It sent an engineer 
who couldnt find an active leak but did spot signs of a previous leak. 
A few months later, Mr W contacted BG again, as there were issues with this boiler. It sent 
another engineer who thought that the issue with the boiler, was due to a faulty heat 
exchanger. He was unable to complete the repair as a pump block couldnt be removed, so 
that he could repair the heat exchanger. A new pump block was ordered. 
BG told Mr W that it had ordered the incorrect part, so another part was ordered. BG sent 
another engineer, but he couldnt gain access. Mr W contacted BG and it sent another 
engineer. The engineer couldnt remove the pump block and advised Mr W that the boiler 
was beyond economic repair. BG gave Mr W a quote for a new boiler, which he declined. Mr 
W complained about the service he received from BG. 
BG considered his complaint and offered £150 as a goodwill gesture for the trouble and 
upset caused, for the poor service. But wouldnt agree that it should pay for the replaced 
boiler, that Mr W got. Mr W remained unhappy with this outcome and referred a complaint to 
our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
said that BG had been fair. There were no terms under the policy that meant that BG were 
obliged to replace it. Further, the age, the condition of the boiler and the previous faults, 
meant that the failure of it wasnt solely down to the removal of the pump. She found that the 
£150 offered was fair given the time of year that the boiler failed. So, she couldnt 
recommend that BG do anything further regarding the complaint. 
BG accepted the view Mr W did not. He said that despite a small leak, he had heating and 
hot water. After the BG engineer had attended, he was left with no heating or hot water, with 
a young family. He felt that the £150 offered was an insult and it was still cold when the 
boiler broke down. And although he accepted that the boiler was old, it had been working 
and he hadnt been previously told by BG of any issues with the boiler. So, he asked for a 
decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr W, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.  Mr W has raised a few 
issues, but I hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a 
discourtesy. As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and 
reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to 
respond to every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
Mr W held a home emergency policy that provided cover for his boiler. He made a claim as 
the boiler was leaking. BG advised Mr W that the boiler, due to it age, faults and condition 
was beyond economic repair. BG did provide a quote for a replacement boiler, but Mr W 
found an independent contractor to replace the boiler.  He complained to BG about its poor 
service. And he wanted BG to pay for the replacement boiler. 
I have considered the comments made by both parties, the policy terms and conditions and 
the call out history regarding Mr Ws boiler. Having reviewed this evidence, I think BG were 
reasonable in not paying for the replacement boiler. I also think it was fair in recognising 
some areas of poor service and offering compensation of £150 for this error. I will now 
explain why. 
Mr Ws boiler was covered under a home emergency policy with BG, since 2016. From 2017 
onwards, the call out history which as several entries, shows that BG had previously advised 
Mr W that the issues with his boiler were serious enough to warrant a replacement. Over the 
years (from 2017  2022) he was advised 13 times that due to the age, condition and faults 
of the boiler, he ought to replace it. 
Mr W said that he had never been made aware by BG of any issues with this boiler 
previously. BG said that following visits to customers, it wouldve left a copy of a work record. 
Having looked at the call out history there were 23 visits which did include annual services, 
as well as repairs. And I think it is reasonable, especially given the number of visits, that Mr 
W would have been informed by the various engineers who attended and likely given a work 
record detailing what was wrong with the boiler or what work was carried out on the boiler. 
Consequently, I think it was more likely than not that Mr W had been made aware of the 
issues and condition of his boiler. And wouldve been advised about the need to replace his 
boiler. Which he declined on several occasions. 
I have next considered whether it was reasonable for BG not to replace the boiler, once it 
deemed it beyond economic repair. I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions, which 
state: a replacement boiler if we cant repair it and; Its less than seven years old; or Its 
between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously covered by us 
under either a warranty or home care product. From the evidence, I cant agree that Mr Ws 
boiler wouldve fallen under the policy conditions, as his boiler was over ten years of age. 
So, I think that BG werent obligated under the policy to replace the boiler. 
Mr W also said that the BG engineer damaged the threads whilst trying to remove the pump. 
This was raised with BG who said that the screws in the manifold had ceased due to the 
boilers age and previous water leaks. As such (and given the condition of the boiler) the 
damage to the threads wouldve been experienced by anyone who had attempted to remove 
the pump. So, I cant agree that BG were responsible, when its likely that this wouldve 
happened had anyone else attempted to remove the pump.
Finally, I have considered whether BG were fair in its offer of £150 for the trouble and upset 
its poor service caused. I understand that Mr W is seeking a larger amount of compensation. 
He said that his family were left without heating and hot water for over a week, when the 
weather was cold.BG acknowledged that its usual level of service was poor due in part, to not keeping Mr W 
updated and the failed appointment. Mr W said that as BT were willing to order a part for his 
boiler that cost £300, which wasnt used, then this amount should be a reasonable amount of 
compensation. But the part that BT ordered formed part of Mr Ws insurance policy and not 
an offer of compensation, which is separate. So, Im unable to agree that this level of 
compensation (namely £300) is fair.
As to the £150 offered, Mr W said that he was without heating and hot water for around a 
week. But having looked at the timeline of events, I can see that it took about two days for 
BG to attend and attempt the repair. Also, during the time of the year (spring early summer) I 
think the weather wouldve been warmer than the winter. Accordingly, I think the offer was 
fair in the circumstances.  
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr W will be, Im 
satisfied that BG were reasonable to offer the £150 compensation for the poor service. And 
were fair in its decision not to replace the boiler. So, I cant ask BG to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman