The complaint
Mr W is complaining that Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AAIS) won't 
further suspend his roadside assistance membership or provide him with a refund of his 
annual premium.
What happened
Mr W had been a member of AAIS for a number years, with his membership to provide 
roadside assistance renewing annually. His membership renewed again in February 2014, 
but in March 2014 Mr W bought a new car which came with roadside assistance. So, 
following a conversation with AAIS, the policy was suspended for five years. 
In February 2019, Mr W asked to extend the suspension of the policy because he still had 
roadside assistance with his car. But AAIS said it wasn't willing to do so because it said the 
terms of the contract set out that Mr W could only suspend the contract once. Mr W then 
asked for a refund of the premium he paid, but AAIS said he wasn't entitled to a refund.
Our investigator didn't think we could look at this complaint because she thought it was 
about the performance of the contract. And she said that this was specifically excluded as a 
regulated activity. 
Mr W didn't agree with the investigator's opinion. He said he wasn't complaining about the 
membership itself, but about the unfairness of how much he paid. He said that, if he'd paid 
monthly, he would have only paid for one month. So he said he wouldn't have had to pay for 
the remaining 11 months.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2019 where I said I thought we could look at this 
complaint. But I also said that I didn't intend to uphold it. And I said the following:
"Can we look at this complaint?
We cant look at every complaint thats brought to us. What we can and cant look at is 
explained in our rules called the DISP rules. Those are set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) Handbook.
We can usually look at a complaint if its against a firm regulated by the FCA and it's carrying 
out regulated activities or ancillary activities as set out in the DISP rules.  As the 
investigator has explained, we cant consider all complaints brought to us about all roadside 
assistance providers.  Under the specific regulations that govern this (the Regulated 
Activities Order), roadside assistance insurance providers are excluded if they only provide 
roadside assistance insurance.DRN-1278292
I've looked at the contract and, while part of the contract is provided by a company who 
would fit within the above exemption, the contract as a whole is provided by AAIS. And 
AAIS provides more than roadside assistance insurance.
In this case AAIS was assisting in the administration and performance of a contract of 
insurance, which is a regulated activity. So I'm satisfied that we can look at this complaint.
Has AAIS treated Mr W fairly?
Mr W is unhappy that AAIS won't either provide a further suspension of the contract or give 
him a refund of the premium he didn't use. I can understand why Mr W is unhappy, but I 
don't think AAIS are acting unreasonably and I'll now explain why. 
The terms of Mr W's agreement set out that he was entitled to suspend his membership for a 
period of at least 90 days but for no more than five years. When Mr W initially suspended the 
membership he did so for the maximum allowed period. But the agreement also set out that 
he wasn't entitled to suspend it more than once in each cover period. So I can't say that 
AAIS acted unfairly in not extending the suspension or allowing him to suspend it again.
I appreciate Mr W didn't need the agreement any longer. But the terms of the agreement set 
out that he's not entitled to a refund of the premium if the agreement is cancelled outside of 
the initial 14 day cooling off period apart from in very limited circumstances. And Mr W's 
circumstances wouldn't fit within this. However, I also need to think what's fair and 
reasonable and take into account the law of unfair terms.
In general, I don't think it's fair for consumers to be penalised for cancelling a policy and they 
should only be required to pay for the services actually provided. So, usually, I think AAIS 
should only be allowed to charge for the time on cover and any reasonable administration 
costs.
But in this case, AAIS has shown that Mr W used the cover to recover his car on                  
28 February 2014. It appears that Mr W called AAIS to say that there was smoke coming 
from the engine. A patrolman attended his vehicle and I understand diagnosed a 
broken/shattered thermostat housing. Following this, Mr W's car was recovered to a garage 
by the patrolman. So Mr W did have use and have the benefit of the agreement . And I don't 
think it's unreasonable that AAIS hasn't given a refund of premium as a result.
Mr W has said that he wouldn't have had to pay the full annual premium if he'd taken out a 
monthly policy. But, while I don't disagree that might be the case, I can only look at the 
contract he had. And I don't think AAIS has treated him unfairly in this case."
Neither party responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided me with any further information, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I don't uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out previously.
 
 My final decision
For the reasons I've set out above, it's my final decision that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman