DRN-2657554
The complaint
Miss P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited cancelled her contents insurance policy 
without her confirmation and that it provided her with poor customer service.
What happened
Miss P took out contents insurance with Aviva in July 2015 and the policy renewed annually 
until 2019. Aviva contacted Miss P prior to the July 2019 renewal. Miss P found Avivas 
renewal quote unsuitable so she said she wanted to cancel the policy and move to another 
provider. Avivas advisor tried to improve the price of the renewal but wasnt able to do so by 
much so Miss P confirmed that she wished to cancel the policy.  
In around October 2020 Miss P contacted Aviva again to check if her policy was still in place. 
Aviva told her itd been cancelled at her request in July 2019. Miss P said to Aviva that she 
didnt intend for the policy to be cancelled. She said she wanted Aviva to explain why itd 
happened. 
One of Avivas advisors called Miss P back to discuss what had happened and Miss P found 
them to be rude, unprofessional and upsetting. Miss P then complained to Aviva. 
Aviva looked into Miss Ps complaint and issued its final response at the start of November 
2020. It said that it didnt think itd incorrectly cancelled the policy in July 2019. But it also 
said that the calls made by its advisor to Miss P in October 2020 fell short of the levels of 
service it strived to provide for its customers. Aviva paid Miss P compensation of £150 by 
way of an apology. And it arranged for its sales team to contact her to go over a new quote. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Avivas investigation, Miss P complained to this service. Our 
investigator looked into her complaint and found that Aviva had acted fairly and reasonably 
so didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
Miss P disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for her complaint to be referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for any disappointment it will cause Miss P, I dont think her complaint should be 
upheld. Ill explain why. 
Ive listened to a recording of the call between Miss P and Aviva in July 2019 during which 
Miss P advised that she wished to cancel the policy. I can hear that the advisor asked 
Miss P if any details had changed, and specifically asked who was living at the property. 
Miss P mentioned her young granddaughter was. As this was new information, the advisor 
logged it. Having done so, it caused the premium to increase. Miss P said to the advisor she 
felt she was being penalised for having a granddaughter. I can also hear that the advisor 
explained to Miss P that she wasnt being penalised but she did have to disclose all relevant 
information and the number of people living in the property was a rating factor (that would 
impact the price charged).
I can hear during the call that the advisor tried to improve on the price for Miss P but was 
only able to do so marginally so Miss P said she was going to go to another provider. After 
discussing a claim shed made the previous year, the advisor clearly asked Miss P if she 
wanted to cancel the policy as it was due to renew the next day and Miss P replied, yes 
please. I note the advisor said he would now go ahead and cancel the policy and log with 
Aviva that Miss P was unhappy with the quote she received during the call. 
I understand Miss P has since been sent a recording of the call. She said subsequently to 
Aviva (in October 2020) that it shouldnt have gone ahead with the cancellation in July 2019 
because the call was incomplete and she couldve reflected and changed her mind but 
wasnt able to. 
I can hear that the call ended whilst the advisor was logging the cancellation. I understand 
there was an attempt to call Miss P back that was unsuccessful. Ive thought about what 
Miss P said about the call being incomplete and, whilst it may have ended sooner than 
intended, Im satisfied from its content overall that there was no reason for the advisor to 
have doubted she was in anyway uncertain or undecided about her decision. Miss P 
expressed her decision to cancel the policy clearly at least twice during the call so I dont 
think it was unfair of Aviva to have proceeded to cancel the policy. 
I can see that Miss P received renewal documentation in the post from Aviva every year. As 
the renewal didnt proceed no documentation was sent out so I think its reasonable to 
consider that Miss P was likely aware that her policy had been cancelled. And I note that no 
renewal invitation was sent in July 2020 either and that no queries were raised by Miss P 
with Aviva about that until October 2020. 
So, with regardto the cancellation, Im satisfied that Aviva didnt cancel Miss Ps policy in 
error or unfairly or unreasonably but did so as a result of her clearly communicated 
instruction during the July 2019 phone call. 
Having listened to the calls between Miss P and Aviva in October 2020 I can appreciate that 
at times the calls werent conducted appropriately by Avivas advisor and that they fell short 
of the levels of service Miss P could expect. I can hear that Miss P was upset by what was 
said. 
Where a financial business, through its words or deeds, causes a consumer unnecessary 
trouble and upset, this service can recommend that it pays compensation. Here I can see 
that Aviva hasnt disputed that the service Miss P received in October 2020 fell short of the 
level it seeks to provide. I can see that its apologised to Miss P for any upset caused and 
has paid her compensation of £150. I think the amount paid by Aviva is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances and is in line with awards made by this service in similar complaints. 
So, I dont think I can fairly make Aviva pay any more. Indeed, if this complaint had passed 
across my desk without Aviva having offered any compensation, its unlikely Id have 
awarded any more than this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman