DRN-4478944
The complaint
Mr As complaint is about a pet insurance policy he purchased from TICORP Ltd trading as 
Petsure (Petsure).
Mr A is unhappy about the way in which the policy was sold to him and several 
representations he feels Petsure made.
Mr As complaint is brought by a representative on his behalf, but in this decision, I shall 
refer to all submissions made as being his for ease of reading.
What happened
In December 2022 Mr A took out a pet insurance policy from Petsure online through a 
comparison website. During the sales process, he was asked by Petsure to confirm a 
number of assumptions, including whether his pet had visited a vet in the last 12 months. Mr 
A ticked yes to this. But when he came to make a claim on the policy the following year, it 
became apparent that the pet hadnt in fact visited the vet in the 12 months before the policy 
started. As a result, Petsure said the policy wasnt valid and voided it. In doing so then 
refunded the policy premiums Mr A had paid them. 
Mr A is unhappy with the way the policy was sold to him and the consequences of the sales 
process. He says:
It was not made clear to him what would happen if he didnt agree to the assumptions 
listed and what he could do if he didnt think they were correct;
Petsure misled him by advertising they paid out 94% of claims based on 2020-2021 data 
and claiming they had over 20 years of claims handling experience;
Petsure pay £140 in Amazon vouchers to people to encourage positive Trust Pilot 
reviews, which is unfair.
Petsure said that if Mr A wasnt sure about whether he should answer yes to the 
assumptions presented to him, he could have contacted them to discuss things. They also 
set out during the sales process that if any information given was incorrect, this could 
invalidate cover. This was then confirmed in the policy terms which were later supplied to Mr 
A. 
Petsure also said that at the time of advertising, the figure of 94% in relation to paid claims 
was correct but this is now out of date so it has been removed from their website. And they 
maintain that the 20 years of experience of claims handling is correct because it references 
the experience within their team. They also said they dont offer people £140 in Amazon 
vouchers to provide positive Trust Pilot reviews.
Mr A remained unhappy so referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He 
made a number of assertions in response. In summary he said that the way the information 
was presented to him when he took out the policy took no account of how he processes 
information, given he has a form of Autism. He also thought that Petsure would conduct their 
own checks to ensure the information he gave was correct- like carrying out a background 
check on his pet or asking for proof of the assumptions made from him. 
In addition, Mr A also feels the positive information both on Petsures own website lulled him 
into a false sense of security about their integrity and that when he communicated with 
Petsure about his claim he felt discriminated against.
Our investigator considered Mr As complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She 
said:
that whilst having a form of Autism might have meant it wouldnt have occurred to him to 
clarify whether the assumption he agreed to about his pets veterinary history should 
have been answered differently, he was asked to confirm that the information hed given 
was accurate and to the best of his knowledge and warned that any incorrect information 
could invalidate his cover or cause the claim to be declined. 
theres nothing to suggest that the statements given on Petsures website were incorrect 
at the time or that Petsure were offering people £140 Amazon cards to write positive 
reviews on Trust Pilot. 
she hadnt seen anything in how Petsure had treated Mr A that meant they had 
discriminated against him or treated him unfairly.
Mr A doesnt agree, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. Ive explained why below.
The sale of the policy
Mr A says that the assumptions that were presented to him when he took out the policy 
didnt take account of the fact that they could be misconstrued by people with a 
developmental disorder like his because they struggle with communication, processing and 
understanding information.
Petsure were under a duty to treat their customers fairly. The Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) provides both guidance about and sets the standards for what are expected of 
businesses. In the case of vulnerable customers, the FCA says that firms should do a 
number of things, including take action to understand the needs of their target 
market/customer base and respond to customer needs throughout product design, flexible 
customer service provision and communications. With that in mind, Ive considered how the 
assumptions were presented to Mr A. The screens he was presented with said:
Weve made the following assumptions
[Pet] has had a check-up with a vet in the last 12 months

By ticking the box, you confirm the above assumptions are correctIn order to continue with his purchase of the policy, Mr A had to select yes in answer to that 
question. And before finalising it, he was presented with a screen that said:
I confirm that all of the information Ive given is accurate and to the best of my
knowledge, and any incorrect information may invalidate my cover and cause any
claims to be declined.
I know that full benefits and exclusions can be found in my policy documents and
agree that its important to check through all documentation and Petsures Terms
of Business.
I take the point that Mr A felt it was difficult for someone with his developmental disorder to 
gain meaning from things that are not said and the fact that there was no obvious way to 
disagree with what the assumptions said, so he took the view there was nothing to disagree 
with. But I also think the way in which the assumptions were phrased meant that it was made 
clear Mr A could have chosen not to tick the box to proceed with the sale at all. I appreciate 
that that wasnt something he wanted to do- because he wanted to purchase pet insurance- 
but I dont think this means that Petsure did something wrong. I cant see that presenting the 
information it did in the way that it did, meant that it misled Mr A, in his circumstances to 
agree to something he wouldnt otherwise have agreed to, had it been presented differently.
I also understand why Mr A says that the warning he received about not providing accurate 
information didnt lead him to double check the information he gave in his particular 
circumstances, but for the reasons Ive already set out, I think the way the assumption was 
presented was clear. So, I cant say that Petsure did anything wrong.
Mr A has made the point that there is no good reason why anyone should be able to take out 
cover that would have been invalidated when it was found his pet hadnt seen a vet in the 
last 12 months. I agree with this assertion. Had he not ticked yes in response to the 
assumptions, then cover wouldnt have been provided because Petsure wouldnt have sold 
him a policy in those circumstances. So, I think a failsafe was in place to cover this kind of 
situation, its just that Mr A agreed to something that wasnt accurate which meant he was 
able to purchase cover when it wouldnt otherwise have been available. 
I know Mr A felt that Petsure would go on to validate the information he had provided by 
doing a background check of some kind or asking for proof of the information hed given but I 
havent seen anything that leads me to believe this was suggested to him or that it was 
necessarily something that a consumer would expect when buying pet insurance. And I think 
Petsures statement about the potential for cover being invalidated or claims declined if 
incorrect information was given, supported the fact that the onus was on Mr A to answer 
everything correctly.
Information on Petsures website and Trust Pilot reviews
Mr A feels that the information given on Petsures website about the number of claims they 
paid in 2020-201 and the years of experience they have in claims handling are incorrect and 
led to him wrongly trusting the business.
Its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to monitor businesses for the way in 
which they advertise their services on a standalone basis. Nor do we regulate this. We can 
only address individual complaints that fall within our remit.
Mr As complaint is that the information Petsure published was false and led him to rely on 
them as a reputable insurer when purchasing insurance from them. Petsure have said the 
information on their website was correct at the time Mr A purchased insurance. Mr A hasnt provided anything persuasive that supports that information was wrong or misleading or that 
it would have led him to take out a product he otherwise wouldnt have taken. And in the 
absence of anything that disproves what Petsure have said, I cant say they acted unfairly 
when selling Mr A insurance.
Its not normally for this Service to determine whether Petsure is entitled to offer 
inducements to customers in any shape or form. We might however direct a business to put 
things right if we were satisfied that the information relied on was inaccurate (namely false 
reviews) when taking out the policy and that a customer might have acted differently if it 
wasnt for the inaccurate information. The reviews Mr A has referred to in this case dont 
appear to support what hes saying about Petsure offering customers Amazon vouchers in 
exchange for positive reviews however. Rather it appears that there were vouchers being 
offered at one time as incentives for taking out insurance with Petsure and separate 
requests for reviews being sent to customers. This isnt the same thing as paying customers 
to write positive reviews, so Im not persuaded that what Mr A says is right, such that false 
information led to him taking out insurance that he otherwise wouldnt have taken.
Discrimination
Mr A has said that the staff he spoke to at Petsure when he made a claim on the policy 
repeatedly undermined him and questioned him and that he felt discriminated against as a 
result of having a form of Autism- particularly because he says he has reduced intuitive 
reasoning.
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for 
the Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order 
to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant 
law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So although its 
for the Courts to say whether or not Petsure has breached the Equality Act 2010, were 
required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other things 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. That 
includes thinking about what a Court would likely decide if Mr A were to make a claim under 
the Equality Act 2010.
Autism isnt automatically deemed to be a disability under the Equality Act 2010 but even if 
in the circumstances of this case, the definition is met, and the provisions of the Act relating 
to disability discrimination and failure to make reasonable adjustments are relevant 
considerations. But I dont t think Petsure has acted unreasonably here. Ive listened to the 
call recording Mr A had with Petsure and looked at the correspondence between the parties, 
but I dont think theres anything that Petsure said to him that meant they treated him 
unfairly.
Petsure were entitled to clarify whether the policy conditions had been met when Mr A made 
a claim and when they realised this didnt accord with the information he initially said was 
correct, I can see why they questioned it. That wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances. So 
I dont think Petsure did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint against TICORP Ltd trading 
as Petsure.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman