DRN-4160529
The complaint
Mr J complains about the sale of an FSAVC (Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution) pension by United Friendly Assurance (now part of the Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited) in 1996. For convenience, Ill refer to the business as Royal 
London throughout.
His representative says that the policy was mis-sold as he wasnt provided with details of the 
alternatives available. He had planned to spend his whole career in his profession in the 
public sector, and as added years were withdrawn in 2008 he had now missed any 
opportunity to purchase them.
What happened
Royal London has produced an earlier fact find from November 1992 and a review action 
plan from late 1993. The fact find shows that Mr J was married with two dependents. At that 
time he had been in the armed forces (and its pension scheme) since age 23 approximately. 
His net income was £2,859pm with total outgoings of £2,882 - meaning he had little, if any, 
surplus income. His wife only had a very small amount of earnings. They had mortgages 
totalling £155,000, bank/finance house loans totalling £20,000, a £14,000 overdraft and 
other credit totalling £12,000. Their concerns at the time were the cost of this borrowing.
By the following year, Mr and Mrs Js disposable income had increased by £100pm and 
were expecting to receive further funds of £15,000 mainly from an inheritance. Investments 
were being proposed for these funds, but Mr J also wrote to the adviser that he would like to 
set aside £400 per month for school fees. He indicated that he was prepared to invest in 
personal equity plans (PEPs) and perhaps a slightly higher risk, higher return vehicle for the 
rest. He was looking to leave his role and expected to receive a lump sum package.
Mr J subsequently joined his new employers public sector pension scheme in December 
1995. At the time of the advice, Mr Js net income had increased to £3,457pm. He was aged 
39 and Royal London proposed he start contributing to the FSAVC at the rate of £80pm, 
which was 1.8% of his pensionable salary of £52,440.
Royal London was required to send Mr J a reasons why letter, dated 26 March 1996. This 
is very brief and doesnt mention any other options in his employers scheme. However it 
does say that a benefit of its unit linked contract was that Mr J could choose a fund more 
specifically corresponding to the level of risk he wanted to take. Mr J chose to invest 25% in 
the managed fund and 75% in the UK managed fund. Mr Js representative argues the letter 
provided insufficient information for Mr J to make an informed choice.  
Mr J says he drew pension benefits at his employers normal retirement age of 60 in 2016, 
when I note his salary was in excess of £145,000. (However hes provided a payslip from 
2019, suggesting he has continued to work for the public sector in the same profession.)
Royal London has offered Mr J compensation based on the fact that the charges in the in-
house Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) arrangement operated by Mr Js employer in 
1996 was likely to have offered lower charges, and it couldnt show this was likely to have 
been explained to Mr J at the time.
Mr Js representative disagreed. It said that as a result of Royal Londons advice, Mr J 
missed out on the opportunity to buy added years in his employers defined benefit scheme, 
so the loss hed suffered was greater than Royal London had calculated.
Royal London observed that the application indicated Mr J only agreed to pay a level 
contribution, which was maintained to April 2016. Buying added years would have been a 
more costly route as the level of contributions would be indexed in line with earnings. It also 
said that the managed fund Mr J invested in involved taking a higher degree of risk to meet 
his potential need for early retirement. In its view, he didnt necessarily require a risk averse 
investment that added years would have provided. Royal London has since accepted that 
Mr Js intended retirement age of 60 was actually the schemes normal retirement age.
Our investigator concluded that it was unlikely Mr J would have bought added years even if 
better advised by Royal London. In brief, she said:
Royal Londons regulator (LAUTRO)s Code of Conduct at the time required it to 
have regard to any rights Mr J may have under an occupational scheme (such as to 
contribute to added years, which public sector schemes provide).
Mr J should have been directed to his occupational scheme by the adviser, to find out 
more about this option.
At the time of advice, added years would likely have looked expensive compared to 
the projected returns and benefits of the FSAVC, because they werent intentionally 
subsidised by Mr Js employer.
As per the figures his representative provided, buying one added year would have 
cost Mr J about 1% of salary over a 20-year term: i.e. 20% of his salary, compared to 
the 6% (subsidised) rate he was contributing for each year he worked there.
This was a fixed commitment increasing with salary, which couldnt be easily or 
regularly stopped and re-started (e.g. in the event of financial difficulty).
Mr J was unlikely to want to spend a potentially greater monthly amount to get the 
same projected benefits from added years as he could have from an FSAVC.
The complaint was being brought with the benefit of hindsight, but did not warrant 
being upheld based on Mr Js circumstances at the time of sale.
Mr Js representative didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, they said:
- The view was based on inaccurate information from an out-of-date fact find.
- Mr J had substantial pay and expected to spend his career in the public sector, so 
buying added years wouldnt have been seen as expensive for him.
- Even though Mr Js premiums remained level, affordability wouldnt have been an 
issue for him - as his salary was index-linked, he was expecting promotion and could 
accommodate increasing contributions, had he opted to make them.
- Recommending added years wouldnt have earned the adviser a commission.
- The benefits under added years were guaranteed, whereas Mr Js FSAVC (or the in-
house AVC) was subject to risk.
- Mr J wasnt seeking anonymity from his employer, expecting to be a job mover, to 
have poor growth in earnings, or retire early (which were typical reasons for 
recommending an FSAVC over added years).
-Royal London[s] recommendation was therefore negligent and breached the PIA 
Principles PRIN 2.1.1 R No.6 and No.7
Mr J also made his own comments, reiterating that he was persuaded by the adviser at the 
time that added years were unaffordable and inflexible. He believed that was the wrong 
advice, adding I may have needed to make difficult choices about where I spent my money but the incorrect advice that I received meant that I did not consider purchasing added 
years. 
He pointed out that by February 1996, he had additional private earnings (after tax) of £400-
600pm and his wife also earned £400pm. His records at the time indicated he was projecting 
a net monthly surplus of £681  rather different to that recorded on the fact find from 1992. 
Shortly after the advice, he also took on additional management responsibilities in his role, 
which increased his salary further.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her view, so the complaint was passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Did Royal London consider and then advise Mr J not to purchase added years?
The adviser who recommended the FSAVC was tied to an insurer that is now part of Royal 
London. So he couldnt recommend products provided by other insurance companies. But 
technically, the added years arrangement isnt provided by another insurance company. It 
was an existing option available to Mr J under his employers scheme.
To answer one of the representatives points, as the investigator has already pointed out  
the adviser was bound by the LAUTRO Code of Conduct. The PIA had adopted this Code 
when it assumed responsibility for LAUTRO-regulated firms, but this was before the FSA 
(which introduced the PRIN section of the rulebook to which the representative refers) took 
over in 2001. So Im satisfied that the investigator set out the correct rules.
The LAUTRO Code of Conduct required the adviser to have regard to any rights Mr J may 
have under an occupational scheme. In my view it wouldnt have been inconsistent with this 
Code if the adviser did consider the potential benefits of added years as part of his advice 
rather than simply mentioning they were available  although Im satisfied that he should at 
least have done the latter. 
And in this particular case, Mr J seems to have given a reason for the adviser to comment 
on added years. He completed a complaints questionnaire for Royal London which stated I 
was told that this [FSAVC] was the best option for me, and preferable to buying added 
yearswhich had been my intention. He mentions in response to the investigators view 
that the adviser persuaded him that added years were unaffordable and inflexible.
Mr Js representative and Royal London will be aware that in some cases there is little 
evidence that added years were even discussed at all. But Im required to consider all of the 
evidence, including Mr Js recollections  and as a result I dont think this is one of those 
cases.
On balance I find it likely that Mr J did mention to the adviser that he was aware of and 
considering buying added years, and this resulted in a discussion about the relative merits of 
what the adviser was offering (an FSAVC). Whilst I would find it more compelling if such 
discussions had been included in the reasons why letter, that doesnt mean I could safely 
conclude they didnt happen at all - given Mr Js testimony in this case. 
I think Mr Js recollections are the best evidence we have of what likely happened. As 
peoples recollections may take on a different complexion over a time gap of some 25 years, I cant know precisely what was discussed. But if an adviser was commenting on added 
years, its not surprising to find some reference being made to the fixed-term commitment of 
an added years arrangement as well as its relative cost to the FSAVC. These are, after all, 
the two main things the investigator has referred to as well.
Would the adviser have been right to point out the potential increased cost of added years 
over an FSAVC?
In my view, the adviser would have been. I can see that in principle with a gap of at least a 
few years service and a wife and young family to support, buying added years could have 
looked attractive to Mr J as not only he and his dependants might benefit. He says he had 
been intending to do buy them before he met the adviser. So it looks to me that he wanted 
advice on whether an FSAVC would likely produce better benefits, when they were costed 
for him and his dependants, than added years. 
As the investigator highlighted, the added years arrangement wasnt intentionally subsidised 
by the employer. As a result he would need to pay about three times as much into it as he 
was doing for each year of normal service he gained through membership of the pension 
scheme. And I think whether that was likely to benefit him would, in the main, depend on 
Mr Js view of what returns he was likely to achieve by investing in line with his attitude to 
risk.
Based on comments Mr J had already made to the adviser about being prepared to invest in 
PEPs (the forerunner to a stocks and shares ISA), or slightly higher risk, higher return 
vehicles than these, I think he would have understood the relationship between risk and 
reward. I appreciate his representatives comments that there is no record of how Mr Js 
attitude to risk was assessed. However, the rather specific fund split chosen for the FSAVC - 
75% in a UK managed fund and 25% in what was likely to be higher risk than this (a non-UK 
managed fund)  persuades me that there likely was a discussion about how much risk Mr J 
wanted to take.
At the time, the regulator laid down projection rates that were considered indicative of the 
potential investment return Mr J could obtain and, of course, the higher projection rates were 
more likely to be achieved by taking higher risks. From what we know of Mr Js attitude to 
risk, I think it would have been reasonable to contemplate returns between the middle rate of 
9% and the upper rate of 12%, but closer to the middle rate than the upper rate. Over much 
of the period since 1996 those returns unfortunately wont have been achieved, but that 
wasnt generally foreseeable at the time  and it wouldnt be reasonable for me to take that 
into account.
It should also be noted that Mr J would have been closer to achieving the returns it had been 
hoped his additional contributions would achieve, if hed paid the lower charges under the in-
house AVC scheme. Royal London has accepted this part of the complaint and, although 
fine-tuning the fund split seems to have been one of the selling points of the FSAVC at the 
time, I assume its therefore accepted that there would have been a standard fund choice 
under the in-house alternative that would have aligned with Mr Js attitude to risk. I see no 
reason to doubt that would have been the case.
Taking a neutral view that isnt influenced by hindsight, I think its likely that for someone of 
Mr Js attitude to risk  perhaps a little above average   an investment-linked AVC 
arrangement was likely to produce higher benefits than added years, for the same level of 
contribution. Or to put it another way, Mr J could save on the amount he contributed and still 
hope to achieve a similar level of benefit, because he did have the capacity to take that risk. 
He was only putting a relatively small slice of his pension provision at risk, given that he 
would have guaranteed benefits covering most of his career in the armed forces and subsequent employers schemes. And I dont find it unlikely that Mr J followed the advisers 
advice because this was an acceptable level of risk to him.
Expensive vs affordable
Further, I dont think whether something is seen as expensive or affordable is the same 
thing. I accept from what Mr J has said that he had likely seen sufficient increases to his 
earnings, including from private work and his wifes income, by the time the FSAVC was 
sold. I agree that as the added years contributions would still increase in line with Mr Js 
salary, it would have largely been a question of prioritising these over other expenses for 
them to remain affordable. Nevertheless, there are references to needing to budget for 
school fees leading up to the time of the advice  and Mr J has acknowledged in his 
response to the investigator that there were competing pressures on his finances, 
notwithstanding that the household income had gone up. 
But my overall point here is that Mr J being able to afford the increasing cost of added years 
would not de-legitimise the view that they were still likely to have looked expensive, 
compared with the alternatives, at the time of advice. I dont consider that Mr J was a 
cautious investor, in respect of making this top up to his pension. So I dont follow the 
argument that he would have wanted to pay potentially over the odds just to ensure that 
every last part of his pension provision was guaranteed.
Retirement age
There does seem to have been a  confusion over Mr Js retirement age at the time of advice. 
Mr J seems to have had the same misunderstanding as the adviser that age 60 was an early 
retirement age  despite taking his benefits in 2016, it was his representative that corrected 
his understanding when the complaint was submitted. But however the confusion arose in 
1996, I would expect the adviser to have known or double-checked what was the retirement 
age for a very common public sector scheme.
However, I dont think makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. For all the other 
reasons Ive given above, I dont find that the adviser was wrong  according to Mr Js 
recollections  to highlight the potential added expense of added years for someone of his 
attitude to risk. And, as Royal London has accepted, if he had referred to the potential lower 
cost of the in-house AVC arrangement, I think its likely Mr J would have chosen that 
arrangement over the FSAVC.
My final decision
Royal London has already made an offer to calculate and settle Mr Js complaint in line with 
the regulators FSAVC review guidance on a charges-only basis. I consider that to be a fair 
and reasonable offer and require Royal London to settle the complaint in line with that offer if 
Mr J accepts this decision.
Royal London also offered to pay Mr J an additional £350 for the time it took to respond to 
Mr Js complaint. This is not something the investigator has commented on because 
compliance with the rules on complaints-handling is a matter for the regulator and not this 
service. If Mr J wishes to accept Royal Londons further offer of £350 he will need to discuss 
this directly with the business. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Gideon MooreOmbudsman