DRN-3118034
The complaint
Ms Ss complaint is about her mortgage held with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax. 
Ms S believes that, because Halifax is unable or unwilling to provide her with a chain of 
correspondence and other documentation, it has no legal entitlement to ask her to repay the 
mortgage.
What happened
Ive read everything provided  by Ms S and Halifax, and its apparent that some parts of the 
evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There is also a lot of repetition 
of arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
On 8 January 2008 Ms S granted a mortgage over her property to Halifax as security for a 
loan. Unfortunately the loan fell into arrears and in 2013 Halifax was granted a suspended 
possession order over the property. Possession of the property has been suspended by the 
court several times, based on promises by Ms S to pay the monthly instalments, plus the 
arrears.
In 2020 Ms S asked Halifax to provide her with certain documentation which she says the 
bank is required by law to give her in order to prove its entitlement to payment under the 
mortgage. Halifax didnt provide Ms S with the documentation she demanded and so a 
complaint was raised.
In its final response, Halifax said that it thought Ms S had misunderstood the position in 
relation to the banks entitlement to payment under the mortgage. Halifax set out its 
understanding of the legal position, supported by case law, and said it would not be 
providing Ms S with the documentation.
Ms S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where an investigator looked at the 
complaint. She didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. Ms S disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to review the complaint. Ms S has made some further points, which I 
summarise below.
Halifax is required by law to hold all The Original Chain of Documents such as a Deed 
of Trust/Assignment, Security Instrument and Original Promissory Note, which is proof 
that Halifax legally holds the interest in her property. 
A signed agreement between herself and Halifax is not proof that Halifax has legal 
entitlement to the property.
She has a legal right to the documents and Halifax is in breach under the Fraud Act 2006 
by its failure to provide these documents.
Should this matter not be addressed to her satisfaction within 28 days, Ms S will have no 
option but to take this matter to the High Courts of Equity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im familiar with the arguments Ms S has put forward about why she believes Halifax is 
required to furnish her with documentation to prove its entitlement to payment under the 
mortgage. However, Im satisfied Halifax is under no such obligation, and this is the position 
taken by the courts in previous cases. I note in its final response letter dated 21 June 2021 
Halifax referred to those cases so I wont repeat the citations here.
There is a signed mortgage deed dated 8 January 2008 under which Ms S agreed to be 
bound by Halifaxs terms and conditions. These include payment of the mortgage 
instalments on a monthly basis, and set out the circumstances in which Halifax can seek 
possession of the property.
Ive noted the arguments Ms S has made about what she claims are offences committed by 
the bank under the Fraud Act 2006. But the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt 
investigate criminal matters  that would be a matter for the police or the courts.
But in any event, I also note that a court has already decided that Halifax is entitled to 
possession of the property, as an order was made by the court in the banks favour on 
10 September 2013. The banks entitlement to possession has been suspended by the 
court, the last time on 27 August 2019. 
I can see from whats been said that Ms S is upset that Halifax has continued to contact her 
over the arrears. Halifax has explained that, due to the pandemic, the bank has put 
possession action on hold. But Im satisfied that Halifax is still required to contact borrowers 
to inform them of their arrears position and to explain the consequences of non-payment.
I dont have any power to interfere with, overturn or change an order of the court. If Ms S 
doesnt accept this final decision, it wont be legally binding on her or Halifax. If Ms S truly 
believes the bank doesnt have a valid mortgage or isnt entitled to seek possession of the 
property, she will need to refer this back to the court in which the possession order was 
made. I would strongly suggest Ms S takes legal advice from a qualified solicitor before 
attempting to raise in court any of the arguments she has put forward in this complaint.
I appreciate Ms S is in financial difficulties and I have no doubt that the possibility of losing 
her home is very stressful for her. I would urge Ms S to engage with Halifax with a view to 
coming to an agreement to repay the arrears and the monthly instalments. I would remind 
Halifax of its obligation to treat Ms S sympathetically and fairly and to give reasonable 
consideration to her repayment proposals. 
If Ms S finds it too upsetting to deal with the bank herself, it may be helpful for her to contact 
one of the free debt advisory services Halifax listed in its final response of 21 June 2021 to 
liaise with the bank on her behalf.My final decision
I know Ms S will be disappointed, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman