DRN-2907336
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with Great Lakes Insurance SEs decision not to extend her travel 
insurance policy cover whilst she was on holiday. 
What happened
Mrs S took a travel insurance policy with Great Lakes in June 2019 in preparation for her trip 
to Sri Lanka. Mrs S was going to be away for around six months between 12 November 
2019 and 20 May 2020. During her time away, the COVID-19 pandemic hit and she was 
unable to return home on her scheduled flight as itd been cancelled. Mrs S discussed this 
with Great Lakes as she was concerned that shed have no cover whilst she was stranded 
abroad. 
Great Lakes agreed to extend cover on three occasions for an additional month but would 
not agree an extension beyond this. It said that Mrs S didnt make enough reasonable effort 
to return home and effectively ignored Foreign Commonwealth Office (FCO) advice to return 
home in March 2020. It also said that Mrs S didnt comply with advice it gave to register with 
other organisations to try and secure another return flight to the UK. 
Our investigator thought the insurers position reasonable and said it didnt need to do 
anything more in the circumstances. Mrs S disagreed and said there were no return flights 
as the Sri Lankan boarders had been closed, meaning she was unable to leave where she 
was staying and unable to travel to other Indian airports as the internal borders were also 
closed. And so, its for me to make a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons are similar to those 
already explained by our investigator, because the FCO advice in March was for all British 
nationals to return home immediately. But Mrs S decided not to do this. I understand the 
reasons Mrs S gave for not doing so, but Im not persuaded that meant Great Lakes had to 
continue to extend cover whilst she was away. Ill explain why. 
Mrs S said the reason she didnt return to the UK when told to was because her scheduled 
return flight wasnt until May 2020 by which time she thought the pandemic would possibly 
be over. Mrs S said there was no way of foreseeing the unprecedented global impact this 
would have and so she thought she could effectively wait for it to subside and then return 
home as shed originally planned. I see the argument shes making here as at that time, I 
dont think anyone could have predicted things would have unravelled the way they did. 
But the advice given by the FCO was to return home immediately in March, and whilst I 
acknowledge her argument, I think the advice given was clear. Mrs S chose not to follow this 
instruction and in doing so, consciously put herself at risk. But that doesnt automatically 
mean Great Lakes risk should be extended in the circumstances. I note the policy terms 
say;
We do not provide cover to those countries or parts of countries where the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office (FCO), or World Health Organisation (WHO) have advised against all, 
or all but essential travel.
This means that Great Lakes doesnt have to offer cover because Mrs S didnt follow the 
FCOs advice to return home. And so, I dont think the insurer has taken an unfair position in 
the particular circumstances of this complaint. 
When Mrs S realised she was unable to return home on her scheduled flight, she contacted 
Great Lakes for an extension, which was provided on three separate occasions. Its unclear 
what efforts were made by Mrs S to return home. Ive not seen any evidence that 
persuasively demonstrates she made reasonable attempts to return to the UK. I take at face 
value Mrs S arguments that there were no flights available, but that doesnt adequately 
explain why she didnt register with the British High Commission for FCO repatriation flights, 
like she was advised by the insurer following the final granted extension of cover.
The insurer said;
Please also advise that we will not accept any further extensions unless the insured can 
provide the following: 
Evidence that they are registered with the British High Commission for FCO 
repatriation flights 
Reasoned explanation as to why they did not heed the FCO advice and return home 
prior to their original travel return date, and therefore continue their travel against the 
advice of the FCO. 
Register for the repatriation flights which are being operated by Air India. 
The insured must take any commercial or repatriation flight option available to them 
in this period, failure to do so will result in us not being able to offer any further 
extension
And so, I think it also gave a clear warning that should Mrs S not comply with its requests, 
which I thought reasonable, then itd be unlikely that itd extend cover again. 
I noted Mrs Ss reason for not attempting to arrange a return flight with another aircraft 
carrier was because of the generous baggage allowance she enjoyed with her preferred 
airline, but I dont think that a reasonable remark given the wider circumstances. 
Mrs S didnt need to claim on her travel policy in any event and so, thankfully, she wasnt in 
need of any further extension. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Great Lakes 
treated her unfairly by declining her request to extend cover beyond the additional 30 days 
granted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Scott SladeOmbudsman