DRN-3271023
The complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) defaulted 
his account.
What happened
Mr C had a credit card from Amex. In March 2020, the limit was £30,000 and the balance 
was £29,773. The minimum payment for that month was £1,071. Mr C and his wifes income 
was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. He called Amex on 19 March 2020 and then on 20 
March 2020 to discuss his situation. On 20 March 2020, Amex enrolled Mr C into their 
Regain programme. No interest was to be charged as part of this and reduced payments of 
£250 per month were agreed. On 11 April 2020, Amex wrote to Mr C about the Regain 
programme. On 14 April 2020, Amex sent Mr C a Final Demand and Notice of Termination 
for the payment of the balance of £29,773.52. On 15 May 2020, a default was registered on 
Mr Cs credit file, and the account passed to a debt collection agency (DCA) to manage.
Mr C complained. He said he hadnt been told by Amex about the default, nor the terms of 
the Regain programme. He didnt receive any correspondence from Amex about it, or the 
default. He now had a default against his name and this meant he was paying more for a 
new mortgage. He said this cost him an additional £34,500 over two years.
Amex said Mr C was enrolled into the Regain programme on 20 March 2020. He was 
advised of the possibility of a default notice at the time as part of their processes. The calls 
in question hadnt been retained, but the notes on the account showed that Mr C was 
unhappy with the potential for default when he called on 19 March 2020. But he was advised 
to call back and he was then enrolled into the programme. Amex said the default was 
therefore fair.
Mr C didnt agree and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Amex acted 
reasonably. She said Amex had written to Mr C on 11 April 2020 about the programme, and 
then again on 14 April 2020  with the Notice of Default. She thought that the Regain 
programme was the best option for Mr C.
Mr C didnt agree with our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says he didnt agree to the terms of Amexs Regain programme. If he had understood 
it, he says he wouldnt have agreed to go into it. He also says he didnt get any 
correspondence about it, nor any other letters from Amex. He says that as a result, he now 
has a default on his credit file  which is causing him to pay more for his mortgage.
Mr C says he asked Amex for a short-term payment holiday when he called them in March 
2020. To set this in context, let me say what that scheme was. In April 2020, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in response to the effects on 
customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including Amex, had to put in place 
payment holidays on many credit agreements, including credit cards  to help customers 
who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays each of three 
months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed payments would not be reported 
to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be debited to the accounts. This 
support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020. The scheme was available 
from 14 April 2020.
In Mr Cs case  he called Amex on 19 March 2020, and so the FCAs payment holiday 
scheme wasnt available for Amex to consider for him. And so  they looked at the other 
options they had.
Amex told us that the Regain plan was for cases where customers were in financial 
difficulty and couldnt afford the payments to their accounts. They showed us the operating 
processes for the plan. These said the Regain plan was a long term repayment option 
based on affordability; assessed on an income and expenditure form; interest and charges 
were frozen; the account would be cancelled and a default placed on customers credit files; 
and the account would be managed by a third party DCA. Amex showed us the talking 
points that they required their call handlers to make to customers. These included: 
cancellation of the account; default notice placed on credit file; interest and charges frozen; 
plan managed by a partner company; completion of an income and expenditure form.
The key points on deciding the outcome of Mr Cs complaint is whether Amex communicated 
effectively about the Regain programme and what it entailed. We asked Amex more 
questions about it and asked for the calls in March 2020  when Mr C first called Amex. 
Amex told us the calls werent available and had been deleted. So  there is incomplete 
evidence here. And where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory 
(as some of it is here) I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is  
whats more likely than not to have happened in all of the circumstances here, based on the 
available evidence.
The important evidence I saw here were the notes of the calls on 19 March 2020 and then 
on 20 March 2020. On 19 March 2020 the notes record that Mr C was struggling, (and) now 
partners self employed (had) work dried up6 months. maxed on other cards. utd (up to 
date) with (priority) bills. 100ukl pm. Adv(ised) regain, did talk offs.very unhappy with 
potential default. will call back. So  the notes say that Mr C could only manage to pay 
£100 per month  which was well below the minimum contractual amount of over £1,000. 
They also say that the call handler read out the terms of Regain, including the potential 
default. Mr C wasnt happy about that and said he would call back. We asked Mr C if that 
happened  and he told us that the agreement was that Amex would call him.
But I can then see on Amexs notes on 20 March 2020 that Mr C did call. The notes say 
(incoming call from customer), advising he would need the repayment optionadvised he 
would only be able to clear 100 a month going forward for at least 6 months . adv regain and 
did all tos (talking points). cm (customer) confirmed ok.. This is an important piece of 
evidence and shows that Mr C called Amex and agreed to the Regain programme and was 
advised of the details of it.
Amex told us that Regain was arranged verbally and letters werent sent as a matter of 
course. But I saw that Amex wrote to Mr C on 11 April 2020 and said his card was cancelled 
and In line with our policy for cases of financial difficulty, we have passed your account(s) to our specialized financial difficulty debt management agency. This is a free service that is 
designed to help you assess and manage your debt(s) collectively.
In accordance with the terms and conditions governing your Credit Card account we intend 
to register the fact that you are in default of the original Agreement with the credit reference 
agencies
Should the balance remain outstanding after a period of 28 days from the date of this letter 
then steps will be taken to register the default status of your account with the credit 
reference agencies  So  I think the letter is clear about the potential for a default, and 
that a third party would manage Mr Cs account.
Mr C says he didnt receive this letter, nor the default notice dated 14 April 2020. We asked 
Amex about that and saw in Amexs records that the letters were sent to Mr Cs address on 
the dates in question. So  I cant say that Mr C didnt receive them.
I noted that for Amex to agree to the Regain plan, they asked customers to complete an 
income and expenditure form  this was to see what payments could be afforded. We asked 
Amex for this and they havent kept a copy. But the notes on Mr Cs account record on 20 
March 2020 that an I+E already (held). So, it looks like one was completed. And from what 
Mr C told Amex on 19 March 2020  that he could only afford £100 per month and his other 
cards were maxed out  it looks like he was struggling, and so such a plan was appropriate 
for him.
I can see Mr C feels strongly about his complaint and what happened. I accept that he will 
be disappointed by my decision. But on the balance of evidence, and in the circumstances of 
his complaint, my decision is that Amex dont have to do anything here. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman