DRN-2378762
The complaint
Mr T complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt satisfactorily repair his car following
an accident.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr T was involved in an accident that caused damage to his car. He
made a claim under his motor insurance policy with UKI, who booked the car in for repairs at
one of its approved garages. Around a week after the accident Mr T started experiencing
issues with the cars coolant system, so it was recovered to UKIs approved garage a few
days earlier than scheduled.
Mr T says the garage told him it didnt think the coolant system issues hed experienced
were the result of the accident. So, after checking the heating system and running some
diagnostic tests, the garage delivered the car back to him. On receipt of the vehicle Mr T
checked under the bonnet and found a broken plastic pipe, as well as another component
out of its housing. He reported what hed found to the garage, who agreed to him bringing 
the car back.
On the way there Mr T says he had to stop repeatedly on the motorway hard shoulder, again
due to issues with the coolant system. He also says the cars heating system wasnt working.
The garage says it fixed the loose pipe and sorted the component that was out of its housing
 but then delivered the car to different garage, local to Mr T, so the underlying fault causing
the problems could be looked at.
Mr T complained to UKI that its appointed repairer hadnt fixed his car. He told his insurer
that the issues he had when bringing it back to the garage could have been avoided had the
fault been correctly diagnosed from the outset. Mr T added that he had pneumonia at the
time, so driving that far without a heater put his health at risk. He also provided photos and a
video to show the approved repaired hadnt properly fixed the loose pipe either. Mr T paid for
a further diagnostic report, but it was his local garage that eventually diagnosed a fault with
the cylinder head as the likely cause of the breakdowns.
UKI asked an engineer to review the repairs. The report said there was no evidence the
problems were accident related, and instead concluded they were most likely caused by an
underlying fault with the car. UKIs final response said that as repair of the fault wasnt
covered by the policy, it couldnt be held responsible for any losses resulting from it.
Mr T referred the complaint to our service for review. He said the broken pipe he found
evidenced poor workmanship from the garage, and the engineer UKI sent hadnt spent long
inspecting the car. An investigator here didnt think the evidence supported the faults being
accident related, and so reached the view that UKI werent liable for any of the resulting
trouble. Mr T didnt agree, and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision on the
matter. 
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint in part. I said it was fair that UKI 
didnt repair the underlying fault which caused the breakdowns, but that the vehicle should 
have been recovered after the garage agreed to look at further repairs. Ive put an extract 
from the decision with my rationale below:
The first issue for me to decide is whether UKI acted reasonably in determining the 
problems with the cars coolant system werent the result of an insured event. The insurer 
based that decision on what it was told by the approved repairer and an engineers report  
who pointed to an underlying fault as the likely cause. UKI also asked another engineer to 
check the report, and the second engineer agreed with the findings.
Mr T has argued that the first engineer didnt spend long looking at the vehicle, and the
second one didnt physically inspect his car. While both of those things may be true, several
motor industry professionals have said the problems werent likely accident related. Mr T
also provided his own report, but that didnt conclude the issues were caused by the
accident either. Mr T managed to drive hundreds of miles following the accident, before the
problems materialised  which supports the view that the accident was less likely to be the
cause of them. So, taking into account everything, I consider UKI have acted fairly and
reasonably in determining that the coolant system problems likely werent the result of an
insured event. Therefore UKI werent responsible for repairing the cause of those problems.
Mr T has provided evidence that UKIs approved repairer didnt securely affix the pipe back
into place. While I appreciate his concerns about poor workmanship, UKIs engineer has
said that the loose components werent connected to the coolant system problems  and I
havent seen anything that suggests otherwise. I also havent seen that reaffixing the loose
pipe incurred Mr T an extra charge when the car was looked at by his local garage. So I
dont think UKI need to do anything further to put right that aspect.
It appears that Mr T may have attempted to engage UKIs approved repairer on a private
basis  as he says he told the garage his car would need to be fixed anyway (after it told him
the issues werent accident related). But UKI would only be responsible for the actions of the
garage when it was acting as its agent, and carrying out repairs due under the policy. If Mr T
feels the approved repairer should have fixed the fault as a private customer he would need
to take that up with the garage directly. I also listened to the call where the possibility of Mr T
getting his own report was discussed  and though UKI said it would consider any evidence
he provided, the insurer didnt agree to pay for it. So Im not directing UKI to cover that cost.
I do, however, think the distress Mr T was caused when bringing his car back to UKIs
approved repairer couldve been avoided. The garage clearly thought the loose pipe and the
component out of its housing were likely accident related  otherwise it wouldnt have asked
Mr T to bring the car back. The garage also reported that it had fixed those issues 
presumably believing those repairs to be covered by his policy. And its certainly plausible
that the force of the accident could have caused those components to become loose.
Mr T had been told that diagnostic tests hadnt identified any faults, so I think he reasonably
assumed there might not be any problems on his journey back to the garage. But when
UKIs approved repairer asked Mr T to bring the car back, it knew it hadnt fixed the
underlying fault that had caused him to break down after the accident. So it ought to have
known there was a very high chance that would happen again. To my mind, if the garage
was asking Mr T to come back to finish repairs it thought were accident related (and perhaps
should have been sorted on first visit) then it should have arranged for his car to be
recovered  given the risk it would break down on the way. Not doing so resulted in Mr T
having to stop on the hard shoulder multiple times, when it was cold and he was without a
working heater. He also told us that he wasnt well the time, and I see no reason to doubt
that  though thankfully it sounds like the trip didnt cause his health to worsen seriously.
As the garage was acting as an agent of UKIs when it asked Mr T to return for furtherrepairs (that were covered under the policy), the insurer takes responsibility for the impact
resulting from that mistake. Though the experience was over a relatively short timeframe, Im
persuaded it would have been acutely distressing for Mr T  so UKI should pay him £100
compensation by way of apology.
Mr T accepted my findings, wishing the matter to be closed. UKI didnt accept what Id said, 
and felt it was harsh to hold both it and the garage responsible for Mr T having to stop 
several times when bringing the car back in. UKI said in summary:
Its contact notes showed the garage called to advise the customer vehicle was back 
in for supplementary works not rectification.
The garage had no idea that there was anything still wrong with the coolant system 
as Mr T only stated he had an issue with the heater.
The garages notes indicate they did not ask the customer to bring the car in, rather 
Mr T said he would call in for them to have a look. Mr T also didnt request a 
recovery, or mention that having no heater would be an issue as he was unwell.
The diagnostics tests done by the garage highlighted no faults. So the garage would 
also have had no cause to think there was still an issue with the coolant system, and 
so no reason to think a recovery was necessary.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. As I see it, there are two options for what happened following the vehicle being 
delivered back to Mr T. Either the garage thought it had fixed the problems, but hadnt 
repaired what turned out to be a fault with the cylinder head  or the garage knew it hadnt 
fixed the underlying issue because it had deemed it likely not accident related. 
Either way, the garage made a mistake. If the garage thought it had repaired the car, then I 
dont find the assumption that the problems affecting the coolant system would have 
resolved themselves, or been fixed by running diagnostic tests, to have been reasonable. It 
also hadnt fixed all of the accident related damage (the loose pipe and thermostat). If the 
garage did know the underlying issue wasnt fixed, then it shouldnt have agreed for Mr T to 
bring the car back for the other accident related repairs still needed without offering 
recovery. I appreciate it was Mr T who phoned and said hed bring the car back in, but at that 
point it was for the garage to decide (because it was, or ought to have been, in the best 
position to know the cars condition) whether to allow that. 
Mr T has said he thought the problems with the car had been fixed, so didnt think hed 
breakdown on the return journey. Based on the garages and insurers contact notes I find 
that to have been a reasonable assumption. The garages notes suggest Mr T was initially 
told further checks would be done to establish if the breakdown was accident related. But on 
the day the car was due to be delivered back to him the notes say Mr T was advised repairs 
had been completed. Theres nothing in UKIs or the garages notes to suggest he was told 
prior to the first delivery the underlying fault hadnt been repaired or that the breakdown 
wasnt accident related. So Mr T reasonably assumed he wouldnt have issues  otherwise I 
dont think hed have risked the journey.  
As Ive explained above, I dont believe it was reasonable for the garage to assume the same. That mistake, of not arranging recovery, led to the problems Mr T had when he drove 
the car back to the garage  repeatedly breaking down in the cold when he wasnt well. So I 
consider that UKI should pay compensation for the impact its agents mistake had on him. I 
still find £100 to be the fair amount to put right that impact.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint about U K Insurance Limited, and direct 
the insurer to pay him £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman