DRN-3626558
The complaint
Miss Rs complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint Miss R, I agree with the investigators 
findings. Ill explain why.
Miss R acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
Because MBFS accepted Miss R shouldnt have been charged an early termination fee, they 
refunded that charge and paid Miss R £75 in compensation. I think MBFSs actions were fair 
in those circumstances.
The terms of the finance agreement held Miss R responsible for keeping the car in good 
condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct 
condition. When the agreement was extended that extension didnt remove that 
responsibility. So, if on return, the car was damaged beyond what could be considered fair 
wear and tear I think MBFS could still make a charge for refurbishment of the damage.
The damage charges that remain
MBFS have their own vehicle return standards (VRS) but the industry guidelines for what is
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). I understand that
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think its only fair to consider that standard in
tandem with the VRS when considering if the damage in the inspection reports can fairly be
considered to be beyond normal wear and tear and chargeable.
Dented bumper 
The VRS says the dent is acceptable if less than 13mm and the BVRLA is a little more
lenient. It suggests dents up to 15mm are reasonable as long as the paint surface isnt 
broken. I think the dent shown in the photograph is in excess of both of those standards and 
is reasonably chargeable.
Left hand front door
In addition to the guidance on dents that Ive mentioned above the BVRLA guidelines state, 
surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is now showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polish out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one 
panel is acceptable. 
And the VRS says, Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the base 
coat and/or has caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out is not 
acceptable.
I think the dent shown in the photograph is a little less than the more onerous VRS standard 
but theres clear chipping of the paintwork so I think it is reasonably chargeable.
Left hand rear door
This was listed on the invoice as a £260 charge but MBFS have explained that the inspector 
found the damage to be more limited and theyve accepted that a £35 charge is more 
appropriate.
I think theres evidence in in the photograph of the damage exceeding the standards Ive 
already explained above and I think the £35 is reasonable.
Left hand quarter panel
The photograph in the inspection report shows the damage to be in excess of both 
standards and therefore chargeable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman