DRN-3463250
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) prevented a transfer of 
money to his trading account and provided him with poor service when he contacted them 
about it.  Mr H says this has caused him upset and embarrassment.    
    
What happened
Mr H tried to transfer £100 from his Halifax current account to his trading account with 
another provider four times on 4 August 2021. The transactions did not go through and Mr H 
couldnt see why.
Mr H made several calls to Halifax on 5 August 2021 to try and find out why the transaction 
wouldnt go through, but Halifax were unable to help him as they couldnt see why the 
transaction wasnt going through. 
Mr H lodged a complaint about this. He then made a number of calls during August to chase 
up the complaint.
On 31 August 2021 Halifax sent their final response. They said that they were unable to 
explain why the transaction had failed to go throughout as they had no sight of it or of the 
audit trail. 
Mr H was unhappy with this response and brought the complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it and she didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
The failed transaction
Mr Hs trading account provider have confirmed that the purchases were initiated on their 
site, and Mr Hs card was enrolled from 3D secure authentication, but that the payments 
were not completed. They werent able to say why but suggested that Mr H contact his bank 
to query this. 
I have also been provided with information by Halifax which shows that there are no failed 
transactions recorded on their system for Mr H on 4 August 2021.  The screen shots show 
that there were no blocks on his account, and there are no audit trails which show the 
transaction. Halifax have explained this to Mr H in their final response letter and have 
suggested that a possible explanation is that the transaction was prevented by Clicksafe 
which is why it wouldnt appear on their systems.. 
In the further enquiries we have made with Halifax they have advised us that the Secure 
Customer Authentication part of the purchase process which is operated by Visa comes 
before authorisation, and so if this part fails, the availability of funds and account and 
address verification wont get dealt with. In other words, the transaction doesnt get as far as 
them, which is why it may not appear in their records. 
Im satisfied from the information provided that Halifax havent done anything wrong in 
respect of the transaction. The evidence does not show that it was rejected by them, and so 
they arent responsible for any losses arising out of the failure of the payment.   
 
How Halifax dealt with Mr H
Mr H first contacted Halifax on 5 August 2021 by phone and made several further calls 
throughout August about this issue. I have listened to all the calls that Halifax have provided 
to try and understand whats happened. 
 
Mr H had 4 calls with Halifax on 5 August 2021. During these calls he tried to explain that 
when he was trying to make the transfer, he received authorisation codes on his phone but 
when he input them into the online security box, the payments werent going through. 
During the initial call with Halifax there was some confusion and the call handler didnt seem 
to understand what Mr H was trying to say. The call handler then put Mr H on hold and said 
that he would come back but he didnt. Mr H was left on hold for around 15 minutes before 
the call was terminated.
 
Mr H then made a second call in which he became frustrated, and the call handler in turn 
responded in a manner that I consider was inappropriate and unhelpful to the situation.  She 
eventually put Mr H on hold for around 5 minutes but when she came back to the call Mr H 
was no longer there. 
In a third call that day, Mr H had a more successful conversation. The call handler was really 
helpful, and calmly took details about what had happened when the transaction had failed. 
She asked Mr H to go through the online transfer process while she was on the line to see 
what was happening. The transaction again failed and so she said she would go and speak 
to a colleague about it, and get back to Mr H later that day. 
The call handler did call Mr H back later having spoken to a colleague, and they attempted 
the transaction again. The call handler explained to Mr H that she thought it looked like the 
transaction was being approved by Halifax as the code was being accepted, but for some 
reason wasnt going through and she thought it could be a problem with the sellers side. As 
she was unable to help further she said she would take it away again, but as far as I can 
see, Mr H wasnt called back again. 
A complaint was logged for Mr H on 5 August 2021. 
I have listened to further calls provided by Halifax for 9,18,20 and 27 August. During these 
there is reference to other calls with the complaints team which I havent been provided with. 
Although I think that the call handlers in some instances could have provided a better service 
and been more sympathetic to Mr H, ultimately, they couldnt see any rejected transactions 
on their system and so they were unable to give Mr H a definitive answer to why the 
transaction didnt go through, and they were unable to assist Mr H in approving the 
transaction which is what he wanted.
 
I also think that the third call handler on 5 August 2021 did try and assist Mr H as much as 
she could and provided him with a possible explanation that it was a Clicksafe issue. I cant see anything further that Halifax could have told Mr H in the circumstances which would 
have resolved his complaint.    
As such, I am satisfied that the apology offered by Halifax in their final response letter is 
sufficient and they dont need to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax   
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman