DRN-3763639
The complaint
Miss W and Miss W (who Ill refer to as Miss W1 and Miss W2) complain that Bank of 
Scotland plc treated them unfairly when the term of their interest only mortgage expired. 
Miss W1 has dealt with the complaint. She said she wasnt interested in compensation, but 
wanted Bank of Scotland to hold recovery action while she sells a commercial building.
What happened
The term of Miss W1 and Miss W2s mortgage expired in January 2017 with an unpaid 
balance. Miss W1 lives in the security property. Miss W1 says they intended to sell a 
commercial property to raise funds but the sale failed to progress during the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
In early 2022 Bank of Scotland reversed a hold on recovery action, saying there would be a 
shortfall after the sale of the commercial property and this hadnt been addressed. Miss W1 
says this is unfair as she (and Miss W2) have other assets they could use to pay the 
shortfall, and Bank of Scotland could have asked her about this. 
Miss W1 says because Bank of Scotland wont give them more time to sell the commercial 
property theyll have to sell it for less than they think its worth. This will cause a loss and 
increase any shortfall when they repay the mortgage balance. She said Miss W2 will have to 
re-mortgage her home to contribute to the shortfall. And Miss W2 has agreed to remove 
herself from the title of the security property so that Miss W1 can apply for an equity release 
mortgage  so Miss W2 will lose her interest in the property. Miss W1 says while shes able 
to withdraw money from her pension towards the shortfall this would mean having to pay tax. 
Miss W1 and Miss W2 ask for compensation for their financial loss.
Bank of Scotland accepted it made an error in April 2022 when its solicitors sent letters 
about starting action for possession. It paid £150 compensation. It said it had received the 
evidence necessary for it to put a hold on action until the end of August 2022. It said it could 
look into a re-mortgage to cover the shortfall, but not until the balance had reduced and it 
had an accurate idea of what was required. 
Our investigator said Bank of Scotland had made errors. She said it should have discussed 
the shortfall with Miss W1 before starting legal action in January 2022, and its solicitors 
shouldnt have sent letters about taking action for possession in April 2022. Our investigator 
said Bank of Scotland should refund legal charges applied to the account and pay another 
£200 compensation.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Bank of Scotland pay compensation for Miss W1 and 
Miss W2s financial loss. She said they did need to repay the mortgage and theyd had some 
years to plan for this. 
Bank of Scotland agreed. Miss W1 said the compensation was derisory. She said her 
partner was unwell and the communications from Bank of Scotland resulted in her being 
hospitalised with a heart attack. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While this complaint relates to what happened in 2022, I think the context of the complaint is 
important. So Ive briefly set out what happened after the term expired in 2017. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The term of Miss W1 and Miss W2s mortgage expired in 2017. Bank of Scotlands records 
show it was in contact with Miss W1 and Miss W2 about repaying the balance. 
In April 2017 Bank of Scotland recorded Miss W1s proposal to repay the mortgage from the 
sale of a second property. Bank of Scotland made unsuccessful attempts to contact Miss W1 
and Miss W2 during 2018 to discuss repayment. 
In early 2019 Miss W1 told Bank of Scotland she was unable to sell the commercial property 
as there were no buyers and the equity wasnt enough to clear the mortgage balance. In 
mid-2019 Miss W1 said she was taking independent financial advice about re-mortgaging. 
Bank of Scotland looked into re-mortgaging or extending the term. It said this wasnt 
affordable. It said it couldnt offer a retirement interest only mortgage (RIO) as it wasnt 
affordable and didnt meet loan to value criteria. 
In mid-2020 Miss W1 said she had a buyer for the commercial property and would take out a 
lifetime mortgage to cover the balance. In early 2021 and mid 2021 she told Bank of 
Scotland the sale was progressing. In late 2021 she said she was in the process of selling 
the building and the net proceeds would repay most of the mortgage with a shortfall of less 
than £30,000. 
In late 2021 and early 2022 Miss W1 told Bank of Scotland her partner was attending 
hospital appointments. She said she was happy to manage the mortgage and communicate 
with Bank of Scotland about it. 
Miss W1 spoke to Bank of Scotland in mid-January 2022. She said she was selling the 
commercial property and could use pension funds to cover any shortfall, which she expected 
to be about £13,000. Bank of Scotland told Miss W1 it would put a six-month hold on 
recovery action. However, it sent a letter only a few days later saying it had asked its 
solicitors to start legal action for possession. 
Bank of Scotland said action shouldnt have been put on hold as it didnt have evidence 
Miss W1 could pay the shortfall from her pension funds. It said it isnt its usual process to 
contact customers when an account is taken off hold. 
Miss W1s financial adviser gave a written confirmation that her pension would allow her to 
comfortably cover the predicted shortfall of £13,000 and Bank of Scotland put a 30 day hold 
on the account which ended in mid-March 2022. This was extended several times. 
In late March 2022 Miss W1 contacted Bank of Scotland to say she wasnt happy with the 
offer she had for the commercial property and wanted a six-month hold so she could wait for 
a better offer. 
Bank of Scotlands solicitors sent a letter in early April 2022 saying it had applied for a court 
hearing and applied a charge to Miss W1 and Miss W2s account. Bank of Scotland says the letter was an error. Miss W1 received a similar letter in mid-May 2022 shortly after another 
30-day hold was agreed. The solicitors confirmed the hearing had been adjourned.
When considering this complaint I must be fair to both parties. When Miss W1 and Miss W2 
took out the mortgage they agreed to repay it, and they do need to do so. The term expired 
in early 2017. Bank of Scotland has been in contact with them since, to discuss their plans. It 
put holds on recovery action. It sent letters explaining the consequences if the balance 
wasnt repaid. 
Understandably, Miss W1 wants to sell the commercial property for as much as possible. But 
she first told Bank of Scotland they intended to repay the mortgage by the sale of the 
property in 2017, about five years ago. Even taking into account restrictions during the 
Covid-19 pandemic I think Bank of Scotland allowed her a reasonable amount of time to 
market the property. I dont think its fair to say Bank of Scotland pressured her into a quick 
sale, or to hold it responsible if she has to sell the commercial property for less than she 
think its worth. I dont think its fair to require Bank of Scotland to pay compensation for this. 
I dont think it was unfair for Bank of Scotland to ask for evidence, such as about the 
commercial property that was to be sold. And I dont think it was unfair for it to ask for 
evidence of how the shortfall would be paid. Miss W1 says she always had to chase Bank of 
Scotland to check if the information provided was satisfactory. But I also think Miss W1 had 
some responsibility to provide evidence that did support what she said  for instance that 
she was entitled to the proceeds from the sale of the commercial property (given the title 
wasnt in her name) and the likely net proceeds of sale. 
I think it was unfair for Bank of Scotland to tell Miss W1 there was a six month hold on 
recovery action and send a letter a few days later saying it had passed the account to its 
solicitors. I think, in the circumstances, Bank of Scotland should have first tried to contact 
Miss W1 or Miss W2 to ask for any information it needed.
Taking action for possession is a last resort, and Miss W1 and Miss W2 did have a proposal 
to repay the mortgage. However, to be fair to both parties, I need to bear in mind that the 
term of this mortgage expired in early 2017. Miss W1 told Bank of Scotland several times 
since that she had a buyer and the sale of the commercial property was progressing. She 
told Bank of Scotland she was taking independent financial advice about her options. I think, 
in fairness, theres a limit to how long it would be reasonable to expect Bank of Scotland to 
hold recovery action pending a potential sale of the commercial property. However, I think it 
should have been clear with Miss W1 and Miss W2 about what action it would take, what 
evidence they needed to provide and by what date. 
Putting things right
I must be clear that I think its fair and reasonable for Bank of Scotland to expect the 
mortgage balance to be repaid, and to ask Miss W1 and Miss W2 about their proposals to do 
this. I think Bank of Scotland allowed Miss W1 and Miss W2 reasonable time to sell their 
commercial property, take advice and look into refinancing options. 
Bank of Scotlands error was to write (or allow its solicitors to write) to Miss W1 and Miss W2 
saying it was taking legal action when it had told them that action was on hold. I think its fair 
and reasonable to require Bank of Scotland to remove the legal costs applied to their 
account (of £88.80 and £511) and pay compensation for the upset caused.
I appreciate that Miss W1 and Miss W2 have found this matter stressful. Miss W1 has told us 
that her partner has a serious health condition and she has also recently been in hospital. 
Miss W1 says this was due to the communications from Bank of Scotland. It's likely most of the stress relates to implementing their proposals to repay the mortgage. But Bank of 
Scotlands errors will have added to this. Ive also taken into account that when Miss W1 
called Bank of Scotland it put action back on hold or explained there had been an error. And 
it gave them more time to sell the commercial property. I think, for the additional upset and 
trouble caused by its errors, its fair and reasonable to require Bank of Scotland to pay £200 
(in addition to the amount it already paid). 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Bank of Scotland plc to remove the 
charges and pay £200 compensation, as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W1 and 
Miss W2 to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman