DRN-2421949
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lex Autolease Ltd charged him for excess rental on a car due to delays 
in terminating the agreement.
What happened
Mr W had a leased car and the agreement was due to come to an end on 16 May 2020. On 
6 April 2020 sent Lex an email asking that the car be collected on 16 May. It responded to 
say there were delays collecting cars due to Covid and it would collect the car when it was 
safe to do so. 
On 15 May Mr W emailed Lex with details of the final mileage and he asked if he could 
purchase the car. He was told that neither he nor a member of his family could purchase it, 
but a third party could. The car was purchased by a third party on 22 May and Mr W was 
charged £201.85 excess rental for the period 16 - 22 May.
Mr W complained but this was rejected by Lex. It said that: as the purchase of the vehicle 
was completed this cancels any collections that have been scheduled. If the collection had 
proceeded as planned we would have back dated the de-hire date to the agreed date of 16th 
May 2020. It went on to say that it required two weeks notice to complete a purchase and 
the email of 15 May didnt allow enough time.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who ultimately recommended it be upheld. Although she accepted Lex had 
followed its processes, she concluded that Mr W had not made use of the car in the 
additional six-day period and it wasnt fair that he pay the additional costs. 
Lex didnt agree and said to reimburse Mr W for rental charges up until the sale was 
completed would not be fair on those customers that accept they are liable for the rental up 
until this point and settled without issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lex has said it followed its processes correctly and it wouldnt be be right if it didnt charge 
Mr W when other customers paid up without complaint. Mr role is not to simply to determine 
if Lex followed its own procedures, but to decide what is fair and reasonable.
Mr W made it clear he wanted to end his agreement and the day before it came to an end he 
enquired about purchasing the car. He was told he couldnt. He had a friend who was 
interested and he put the friend in contact with Lex. It then sold the car to the friend. Mr W 
never owned the car and he was not party to the sale. That was between Lex and the friend.
Since he couldnt buy the car his interest ended on 16 May. He didnt ask to keep the car 
longer than that.  Lex says that once he asked for a purchase price it stopped its collections 
procedures. That was its decision, not Mr Ws and I dont see why he should pay for storing 
the car while Lex arranged a sale to someone Mr W had helpfully identified. If it werent for 
the terms and conditions requiring Mr W to keep the car safe I think he could well consider 
charging for storage.
Nor did Lex explain that it would charge him for holding the car while a sale was made. He 
simply made a speculative enquiry about the sale price and I have seen nothing to show he 
asked for the collection process to be stopped. It was up to Lex to collect the car and then 
sell it to the third party. Of course, that may well have been more expensive for Lex. 
Given what Lex had told Mr W about collection being possibly delayed I cannot see how it 
suffered any loss. It says that if it had collected the car late then it wouldnt have charged 
him for having it on his property, but because it was sold by Lex to a third party it think sit is 
right to charge him for storing the car. That seems to me to be twisted logic. Lex didnt have 
to pay collection fees or auction fees and had an easy sale thanks to Mr W, but it still 
considers it should charge him for an extra week. I am also satisfied that Mr W did not make 
use of the car during the six-day period.
The agreement signed by Mr W states that: If the vehicle is not returned to us by the date of 
termination or the date of the expiry of the Agreement we reserve the right to charge for its 
continuing use. The charge will be equal to the monthly rental although you will be liable to 
pay for each day of continuing use. 
That makes it clear the charge is optional, it simply reserves the right to make charge. In the 
circumstances I consider imposing that charge is neither fair nor reasonable. 
Putting things right
 Lex should forgo the additional charge and pay compensation. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Lex Autolease Ltd to forgo the 
charge of £200.85 and pay Mr W compensation of £75 for the distress and inconvenience he 
has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman