DRN-2816246
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly 
declined a claim under Ts business protection insurance policy.
Mr D and Miss K who are directors of T bring the complaint on Ts behalf.
What happened
T holds a business protection insurance policy with Aviva. Mr D and Miss K made a claim on 
that policy to cover Ts losses arising from its closure as a result of the national Government-
imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Aviva declined the claim. It said T didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming as COVID-
19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. Mr D and Miss K didnt agree. They said they 
thought the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for specified illnesses, meant that 
Ts claim should be covered.
T complained to Aviva, but it explained that, although Ts policy would provide cover in the 
event of certain specified diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the named 
diseases. Mr D and Miss K werent happy with this response so brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator considered Ts complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that, 
while he sympathises with Mr D and Miss Ks situation, he didnt think there was cover 
available under the policy. As Mr D and Miss K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T is looking to claim on its business protection insurance policy. There are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether Aviva acted fairly in declining Ts claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy T took out.
Specified Disease
Ts policy included cover for specified diseases. The policy states that it provides cover for 
business interruption as a result of the occurrence of a Specified Disease occurring at The 
Premises or within five miles of the boundary of The Premises
The policy provides a definition for the term Specified Disease, which sets out a defined list 
of illnesses that are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
Given COVID-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt 
expect it to be included in the list. But there are similar policies on the market that provide 
cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases 
as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ts policy is not like this  rather it sets 
out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of 
the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new illnesses which might emerge. 
I note that Mr D and Miss K have said that COVID-19 is not a new disease, it is a 
Coronavirus variant however Coronaviruses arent covered in the list of Specified illnesses 
covered by the policy, so this doesnt change my opinion.
Prevention of Access
The policy also covers loss resulting from interruption of or interference with The
Business following the prevention or restriction of access to, or closure of, The Premises by 
any Police, Government or other competent Authority.  However the policy then goes on 
to state that it wont provide cover in respect of any action taken in controlling, preventing or 
suppressing the spread of any disease.
On its website the World Health Organisation (WHO) describes COVID-19 as an infectious 
disease and its clear the government-imposed lockdown was an attempt to control, prevent 
or suppress its spread. So I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly in stating that it wont provide 
cover as this exclusion applies.
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on B. But for 
the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I dont 
think Aviva acted unfairly in declining Bs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman