DRN-3214426
The complaint
Mr H complained because Santander UK Plc:
- asked him to sign a Sale of Property form when he asked to extend his interest-only 
mortgage in December 2019; and 
- refused to release its charge from the freehold title to the property.
What happened
Mr H had a mortgage which was part repayment and part interest-only. The interest-only 
part, which was for £50,000, was due to end in June 2021. 
In December 2019, Mr H spoke to Santander about extending the mortgage term. Santander 
said that the longest possible would be until Mr Hs 70th birthday, which at that point meant a 
further 6 years and 7 months. As part of the extension process, Santander needed to 
confirm how the mortgage would be repaid. Mr H didnt have any repayment vehicle, and 
hed confirmed during previous discussions that hed be selling the property. So Santander 
asked Mr H to sign a Sale of Property declaration. 
Mr H didnt return the Sale of Property form, though Santander chased for it a number of 
times. In July 2020, Mr H said he wasnt willing to sign the Sale of Property declaration.
Mr Hs property was leasehold, and he also wanted to extend his lease, which at that point 
had about 66 years remaining. In August and September 2020, there was correspondence 
about this between Mr Hs solicitor and Santander:
- Mr Hs solicitor wrote to Santander saying that it had registered the legal charge 
against both the freehold and leasehold, which it said wasnt correct. The solicitor 
said that Mr H owned both the freehold and the leasehold. But as it wasnt legal to 
grant a lease to yourself, the freehold would first have to be transferred into the 
names of Mr H and his brother. They could then jointly grant a longer lease to Mr H. 
So the solicitor asked Santander to release its charge on the freehold, leaving just 
the charge on the leasehold.
- Santander replied that it wouldnt release the freehold into the names of Mr H and his 
brother. It said it would only consider a release if the freehold were to be held in the 
names of a management company in which all lessees had an equal share, and 
which was transferred automatically with the lease. It also said it expected the 
solicitor to confirm that its interest had not been adversely affected.
There were further discussions and in September 2020, Santander issued a new mortgage 
offer for the remaining term of the mortgage, to June 2021.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Santanders final response to his complaint, which said it had 
been resolved, and he complained to this service.
The investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said she didnt think Santander had 
acted unfairly by requiring a form to confirm how Mr H would repay the mortgage. And she 
could appreciate why Santander couldnt release its charge over the freehold. The 
investigator also noted that Santander had given Mr H an extension to his mortgage until 
April 2022.
Mr H wasnt satisfied. He said he didnt accept Santanders representations as an accurate 
and proper representation of events. He said he was unhappy with the manner in which 
Santander had conducted itself, and it had created an atmosphere of discomfort, fear and 
mistrust and an unwillingness to collaborate. He asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Asking Mr H to sign a Sale of Property form 
When interest-only mortgages end, the capital still remains outstanding to be paid to the 
lender. This was made clear to Mr H, for example on the August 2017 conversion offer which 
said:
We would remind you of the importance of ensuring that you have suitable arrangements in 
place to repay the loan at the end of the mortgage term. We would advise you to check 
regularly the performance of any investment used as a repayment vehicle, to see whether it 
is likely to be adequate to repay the capital borrowed at the end of the mortgage term.
There were multiple discussions between Mr H and Santander, and Mr H told Santander that 
he didnt have any other means of repaying the mortgage and his method of repayment was 
to sell the property.
On the basis that Mr Hs plan for ultimate repayment of the mortgage was to sell the 
property, I conclude that it was fair for Santander to ask him to sign a Sale of Property form.
Releasing Santanders charge from the freehold title to the property
Its an unusual situation when a borrower is both the freeholder and leaseholder of the 
property. Santanders policy is that, where this happens, the bank needs a charge over both, 
so that its mortgage security isnt affected. As Ive set out above, Mr H objected to that. His 
solicitor told Santander that as Mr H wanted to extend his lease, and it wasnt legal to grant a 
lease to himself, it needed to transfer the freehold into the names of Mr H and his brother  
and it wanted Santander to release its charge.
This decision does not provide a legal opinion about the law relating to freeholders and 
leasehold properties  or whether Mr Hs solicitors or Santanders legal team was right about 
the legal requirements relating to lease extensions. What Ive considered is whether it was 
fair and reasonable for Santander to have said that, in order to protect its security, it was not 
willing to release its charge on the freehold.
Mortgages are loans secured on land, and as such all lenders have a duty to protect the 
security on which the loan is based. The security which Santander had taken when the 
mortgage was originally taken out was a charge over the freehold and the leasehold. I have 
seen Santanders lending policy relating to leasehold properties, and I consider that what Santander did here was in line with that policy. So I consider it was reasonable that 
Santander would not release that charge.
I also note that Santander did give Mr Hs solicitors other options, for example holding the 
freehold in the name of a management company in which all lessees had an equal share, 
and which was transferred automatically with the lease. This would also be subject to 
confirmation from Mr Hs solicitors that Santanders interest had not been adversely affected. 
I find this was a fair offer.
Mr Hs complaint about how Santander dealt with him
Ive read all the correspondence available to me, and I can see no evidence that Santander 
created an atmosphere of discomfort, fear and mistrust and an unwillingness to collaborate 
as Mr H alleged. Instead, I consider that Santander acted patiently, with ongoing discussions 
about both the Sale of Property form, and the lease, from December 2019 onwards. 
These discussions about the Sale of Property form, and the lease issues, took place not far 
from the end of Mr Hs mortgage term,. In considering Mr Hs requests for a term extension, 
Santander should have taken account of his best interests and treated him fairly. Ive seen 
nothing to indicate that Santander failed to do this, and there is certainly no evidence that 
Santander created the atmosphere alleged by Mr H.  
Mr H has told us that he still wants a term extension. Thats a matter for him to discuss with 
Santander, and I would expect Santander to give such a request proper consideration, with 
Mr Hs best interests in mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman