DRN-4015817
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the time its taking Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) to 
repair her car after an accident.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for 
these reasons:
Ive reviewed RSAs system notes, and copies of correspondence between Mrs S 
and RSAs repairers. Having done so, its clear that while Mrs S says she had a 
simple crash, the repairs needed to her vehicle arent particularly simple to 
complete. Thats because additional damage was found when repairs were 
attempted, and because her car had been adapted. However, while I accept the 
repairs arent simple, its clear that more could and should have been done by RSA 
and their repairers to take ownership of the claim and ensure it was progressed 
efficiently. Unfortunately, the lack of ownership resulted in it taking around three 
months before a suitable repairer was able to identify all the works required and 
place an order for the relevant parts. Following our involvement, RSA has accepted 
theyve made mistakes and need to do something to put things right, so my decision 
will focus on the impact these mistakes had on Mrs S and how this complaint should 
be resolved. Ive noted that Mrs S would like us to make a finding on how RSA 
should improve their policies and procedures. However, only RSA can determine 
what their policies and procedures look like  and we dont have the power to 
interfere with that commercial decision.
Mrs S was given an alternative vehicle to use while her car was with RSAs repairers. 
However, it didnt have the level of adaptations she needs to be able to drive it 
herself. This means shes been reliant on others to get around, and this has had a 
big impact on her busy lifestyle. However, the alternative vehicle was provided by a 
different business so I cant hold RSA at fault for her not being given a car she can 
drive herself. And Ive had to take this into consideration when determining an 
appropriate award in this case.
As mentioned above, it took around three months before Mrs S car was sent to a 
suitable repairer. But even when that happened, there were additional delays in RSA 
and the repairer being on the same page regarding whether the repairs had been 
authorised, so this was disappointing to see given what had happened over the 
previous three months. Delays of this kind would be distressing and inconvenient to 
anyone who had been in a car accident. However, the impact to Mrs S was 
exacerbated due to her impairment. Her car was heavily adapted so that she could 
drive. And driving an adapted car meant Mrs S had freedom, but it also helped slow 
down the weakening of her limbs. Therefore, it would have been especially upsetting 
and worrying for Mrs S when she stopped having access to a vehicle she can drive 
herself.
Additional damage was found on Mrs S car, and further parts were needed. The 
information Ive seen suggests the additional repairs were authorised, and the parts 
ordered. Unfortunately, despite the parts being ordered in late 2022, my 
understanding is that the repairers are still waiting for them to arrive. And the 
situation is being made worse by the fact theyre unable to estimate how long it will 
take for the parts to arrive so that the repairs to Mrs S car can be completed. 
I appreciate these circumstances mean Mrs S has been without her car for almost a 
year. While I agree RSAs actions resulted in Mrs S claim being delayed, I cant 
ignore that most of the delays stem from the difficulties in sourcing the parts needed 
to repair her car. And in the absence of evidence to suggest RSAs actions are the 
sole cause for the time its taking to complete the repairs, I consider I can only make 
an award for the initial three-month delay. But when doing so, I also must be mindful 
of the fact RSA wasnt responsible for providing Mrs S with a suitably adapted 
courtesy car. In light of this, I consider an award of £350 to be fair and reasonable in 
recognising the distress and inconvenience caused by RSAs delays. I appreciate 
this isnt the award Mrs S hoped for, but I cant safely conclude RSA are solely 
responsible for the difficult position Mrs S is in; and at the moment, it seems there is 
little more RSA can do to source the necessary parts any faster.
For the reasons above, Im upholding Mrs S complaint about RSA. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mrs S complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited.
To put things right, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should pay Mrs S £350 in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of their avoidable 
delays. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman