DRN-2241091
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Pepper Money Limited recorded an entry about her on the CIFAS 
fraud prevention database, in connection with a mortgage application she made.
What happened
Mrs D applied to Pepper Money for a mortgage. She submitted various documents to 
support her application, including bank statements and payslips.
Pepper Money considered the application. It took into account the information Mrs D gave it, 
as well as its own standard underwriting checks, and decided not to offer Mrs D a mortgage. 
It also decided to record an entry about her on the database.
The CIFAS database is a cross-industry database on which financial firms record information 
of concern, allowing other firms to know where future applications might require greater 
checks. There is no obligation to tell a customer that an entry about them has been made.
Mrs D discovered the entry when she applied for credit elsewhere and was turned down. 
She made a subject access request to CIFAS and learned that Pepper Money had recorded 
its suspicion that the payslips provided with her application were not genuine.
Mrs D complained. She said they were genuine, and her employer would confirm that if 
asked  but Pepper Money hadnt asked. She said the entry had caused her to be refused 
other mortgage applications. This caused her problems as she was going through a divorce 
and needed to re-mortgage to remove her former husband from their existing joint mortgage. 
She is concerned that if she cant re-mortgage the house will have to be sold.
Our investigator thought that Pepper Money had acted fairly, and didnt think it should be 
asked to remove the entry. So Mrs D asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on 
her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whenever a lender receives an application for a mortgage, it will consider the application. 
This involves checking the information received, as well as carrying out its own standard 
checks and underwriting procedures. Thats what Pepper Money did in this case. 
These checks are crucial; a mortgage is a significant commitment, and the regulator requires 
lenders only to lend where they can be sure that the mortgage is affordable. And the 
regulator requires lenders to obtain robust evidence of income and expenditure.
Having carried out its checks, Pepper Money had some concerns about the information it 
had been given by Mrs D via her broker. She provided her payslips and bank statements. 
But there were discrepancies in the information Mrs D provided; for some months the 
payments into her bank account did not match either the amounts or the dates on her 
payslip. 
Mrs D has since given us a screenshot of her income details as recorded on her tax records. 
And the HMRC figures Mrs D gave us also do not match the payslips for August 2019. 
And in October 2019, the same amount as the payslip was paid into her bank account  but 
a significant amount of that was then transferred from her bank account to the director of her 
employer a few days later. 
Mrs D told us that was a payment to her partner, then told us it was a payment for a trip. And 
she said her employer was a small business that made payments on different dates for 
budgeting reasons. 
Making an entry on the database doesnt require fraud to be proved beyond reasonable 
doubt, or even on the balance of probabilities. The database requires firms to have 
reasonable suspicion that fraud may have been committed or attempted before making an 
entry. Its not a definitive record that fraud has taken place. 
The database is place for financial firms to share information about applications that raise 
questions. Thats why an entry is not a reason, of itself, for later firms to refuse an 
application  a database record is a prompt to make further enquiries, not grounds for 
automatic refusal. 
Ive taken all that into account, and I think Pepper Money acted reasonably in making the 
entry onto the database. It had concerns that it had been given inaccurate information about 
Mrs Ds income, and I think those concerns were reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman