DRN-1471483
 
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) dealt with a credit card balance 
transfer. 
What happened
Ms C called BOS on 9 May 2019 to ask for a credit card balance transfer. Although her 
request was initially declined, BOS approved it after carrying out additional security checks. 
Ms C says she spent almost an hour and a half on the phone to BOS on 9 May 2019 trying 
to sort this out. She also says she was told the transfer would take one to two working days 
to complete although it didnt happen until 17 May 2019.
Ms C has complained that the balance transfer was delayed, and shes incurred additional 
interest as a result. Shes concerned BOS use a third-party company to deal with balance 
transfers and didnt tell her this. Ms C has also complained about how she was treated on a 
phone call on 9 May 2019, and how BOS dealt with her complaint about this.
Our investigator found BOS had acted reasonably by carrying out additional security checks 
when processing Ms Cs balance transfer request  this was done as a safeguarding 
measure and wasnt implying that Ms C had done anything wrong. Because this meant Ms 
Cs call was longer than she otherwise couldve expected it to be, the investigator thought 
BOS had acted reasonably by paying Ms C £17 to cover the cost of this call.
Our investigator said BOS hadnt acted reasonably when Ms C spoke to them on 9 May, 
after the balance transfer had been completed, or in dealing with her complaint about this. 
However, she thought the £50 BOS had already paid Ms C, and the additional £50 theyd 
offered her, was reasonable and in line the Financial Ombudsman Service Guidelines. So 
she didnt think they should do anything more about this.
Ms C had been told everything had gone through ok after shed completed the additional 
security checks, and the investigator thought Ms C wouldnt reasonably expect the transfer 
to take six working days to complete. Because of this the investigator thought BOS should 
refund Ms C the additional interest she was charged on the balance that was transferred.
Neither BOS nor Ms C agreed with the investigator. BOS said they carried out the additional 
security checks, not the company they use to process the balance transfers. They also said 
Ms C was told that, when additional security checks were needed, transfers can take longer 
than normal - at no point did they guarantee Ms C when her transfer would take place. 
Because of this, they didnt think theyd delayed the transfer, so they didnt think they should 
cover the additional interest Ms C was charged.
Ms C asked if BOS would honour a £75 payment, the costs of my [additional] telephone 
calls and the interest accrued during the delayed balance transfer. She also said shed been 
charged an additional £3.15 because of the delay caused by BOS.Following the comments from both sides, BOS said the expectation was not set correctly 
with [Ms C] on the call around timescales but if we had set the timescales correctly with her 
on the call she would always have had to pay interest. However, they felt the £50 
compensation and £17 phone costs theyd already paid Ms C, plus the additional £50 theyd 
offered her, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
The investigator re-issued her view, and said she no longer thought it was fair to ask BOS to 
cover the additional interest Ms C was charged - because the transfer was subject to 
additional checks, it would always have taken longer to process, and Ms C would always 
have been charged this interest. She felt that BOSs mistake was not explaining this clearly 
to Ms C, and managing her expectations as to how long things would take. And she felt the 
compensation BOS had offered Ms C was a fair resolution in the circumstances, so she 
didnt think they should do anything more.
Ms C didnt agree with the investigator. She said the additional checks were completed by 
BOS when she first called to request the balance transfer and she was told that everything 
was fine. So she thinks additional checks [are] a convenient generic response to cover all 
eventualities. Because previous balance transfers had gone through on the same or next 
working day, Ms C thinks this one shouldve been the same. So she feels she was charged 
additional unnecessary interest, and BOS should reimburse her with this.
Ms C also says that, while BOS already paid her £50 compensation plus £17 for the cost of 
her telephone calls, theyd offered her an additional £75 compensation plus reimbursement 
of additional telephone calls. She doesnt think its fair theyre now offering less than this, 
and shed be prepared to resolve her complaint if BOS paid her an additional £100 (which 
would include the reimbursement of the interest).  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having reviewed the evidence I agree 
with the investigators findings on this complaint for broadly the same reasons. I can 
understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Ms C, but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my comments on what I 
think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen a letter from BOS dated January 2019, telling Ms C of a new balance transfer 
interest rate. The letter says any transfer should reach your account by the next working 
day after we receive your payment instruction. It doesnt mention extended timescales if 
additional checks are needed. While this rate was only valid until 4 February 2019, so wasnt 
the deal Ms C took, it wouldve set her expectations as to how long balance transfers take.
Ive listened to the call when Ms C asked for the balance transfer. She was told once your 
transfer has been approved and weve made the necessary security checks the transfer 
should reach your account by the next working day after receiving payment instruction. This 
may take longer if additional checks are required. BOS also told Ms C that, because shed 
recently done a balance transfer, her transfer request was declined. But they then took Ms C 
through an additional level of security which meant the transfer was then approved.
BOSs case notes explain that additional checks were required on the [balance transfer] so 
it can take up to 7 working days for it to be processed under such circumstances and [it] was 
processed in this timescale and we normally advise two working days [but] it can take 7 
working days if any additional security checks are required. When Ms C called BOS, she had an expectation that a balance transfer would take a few 
working days to complete. This was based on the letter shed received in January 2019 and 
her experience of previous balance transfers. And on the call she was also told that, after the 
necessary security checks were done, the transfer should be done the following working 
day. I accept she was also told that, if additional checks were required, the transfer may take 
longer; but because the additional checks were done on the same call, it was reasonable 
that Ms C expected usual timescales to apply.
I wouldve expected BOS, after the additional checks had been carried out, to have told Ms 
C her transfer could take longer and explain this could be up to seven working days. This 
wouldve set Ms Cs expectations as to what would happen.
BOS didnt do this. And they didnt handle the subsequent call very well, nor did they follow 
up with Ms Cs complaint as they said they would. However this doesnt mean the transfer 
was delayed, and that Ms C paid additional interest that could otherwise have been avoided. 
The transfer would always have taken longer because of the additional security checks  
these checks would need to be completed at the outset, otherwise the transfer wouldnt have 
been approved  so Ms C would always have been charged interest by her other credit card 
provider before the balance was transferred. So I dont think BOS should pay this.
BOS have paid Ms C £50 for the poor service she received, and £17 to cover her call costs. 
Ms C says BOS verbally offered her an additional £75 on two occasions, but in their 
complaint response letter of 22 May 2019 they offered an additional £50. While I dont doubt 
what Ms C says, the formal written offer was for an additional £50. 
I think that, when added to the total of £67 BOS have already paid Ms C, this is reasonable 
compensation for the inconvenience Ms C was caused by BOS, and for the additional calls 
she made chasing the transfer and chasing an outcome to her complaint. So I wont be 
asking BOS to do anything more. Its now for Ms C to decide whether to accept the 
additional £50 or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Ms Cs complaint about Bank of Scotland 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman