DRN-3860461
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, declined her claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 for a refund of her purchases of gold and 
silver coins.
What happened
Between 2016 and 2020 Mrs B bought a variety of rare coins from a company whose 
director I will call the dealer. Most of these purchases were each made with a combination 
of credit cards she held with different banks; usually, one of these was her Barclaycard. 
Some of the coins were delivered to Mrs B at her home, with invoices. But many other coins 
were retained by the dealer, to be sold later on Mrs Bs behalf to make a profit for her, and 
no invoices or other paperwork about these coins were provided to her at the time. She says 
that is because she trusted the dealer.
In April 2020 the dealers first company went into liquidation (and it has since been 
dissolved). In December 2020, Mrs B first raised her section 75 claim with Barclaycard (by 
which time it was too late to attempt a chargeback). She asked for a refund of various 
transactions totalling £118,500; later she discovered some purchases she had overlooked, 
and she increased her claim to £124,820. Meanwhile, she continued to buy coins from the 
dealers second company, which he had founded in February 2020. That company also went 
into liquidation in 2022. (This complaint is only about Mrs Bs section 75 claim in respect of 
her purchases from the first company.)
Barclaycard initially told Mrs B that she had not provided enough evidence, as she had no 
invoices for the missing coins, and the dealer had not listed her as one of the first companys 
creditors when that company went into liquidation. Mrs B eventually managed to obtain a 
letter from the dealer explaining that he had not bothered to list his creditors as there had 
been no assets to distribute. He also sent her all of the missing invoices, which she passed 
on to Barclaycard. But this evidence did not change Barclaycards mind.
When Mrs B complained to our service, Barclaycard pointed out that the dealer had not said 
in his letter where the coins were. It said the new documentation provided for each purchase 
was very brief. It argued that not being on the liquidators list of creditors suggested that no 
money was actually due to her.
One of our investigators considered this complaint, but decided not to uphold it. He thought 
that Barclaycards assessment of Mrs Bs claim had been fair. Mrs B asked for an 
ombudsman to review her case. She pointed out that it wasnt her fault she hadnt been 
included in the list of creditors, and she hadnt known that was the case until she obtained a 
copy of the liquidators report. She said she had trusted the dealer, and he had always been 
able to give her a reason why the profits shed been expecting had been delayed. She 
thought she was now being penalised for being too trusting. She said another bank had 
refunded her for two purchases which had not been made with her Barclaycard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am afraid that I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I think that the absence of Mrs Bs name from the liquidators report is neutral, in that it does 
not really assist either party. It could suggest that the dealer did not owe Mrs B any money, 
but it could also mean that the dealer dishonestly concealed his debts  and the coins  from 
the liquidator. It isnt possible for me to determine which it is, and I think that such an 
investigation would be best dealt with in litigation. So I do not make any findings about it, and 
I have not held it against Mrs B. She had no control over whether the dealer gave the 
liquidators her name or not.
However, I think that the invoices which were provided by the dealer after Mrs B raised her 
section 75 claim have only limited value as evidence. I accept that Mrs B bought the relevant 
coins and that she paid for them, in part, with her Barclaycard. But these invoices and 
statements do not prove that she never received the coins, or the value of the coins. So 
I think that Barclaycard was entitled to be sceptical in its approach to handling Mrs Bs claim. 
I appreciate that another bank took a different view and upheld her claim for two other 
orders, but that does not mean that Barclaycard had to too (and the other bank was dealing 
with a refund of considerably less money). Faced with a claim for a refund of a six-figure 
sum, Barclaycard did not have to take Mrs B at her word. On the limited evidence before it, 
I am satisfied that Barclaycards response was rational and fair, and so I cannot interfere 
with it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman