DRN-3387395
The complaint
Mr M complains that One Insurance Limited (OIL) have declined a claim he made under his 
accidental damage policy for buildings and contents. He thinks the claim should be paid.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr M noticed his son had spilt a drink in his bedroom which had gone onto the 
bed, mattress, and carpet underneath. He cleaned it up as best as he could.
In September 2021 he noticed a smell when cleaning his sons room. He lifted the bed, 
which was ottoman style, and noticed mould on the underside, the mattress, and the carpet 
floor. He made a claim under his accidental damage policy.
OIL asked Mr M to complete a claim form and provide photo evidence of the accidental 
damage caused by the spilt drink.
Mr M completed the form and sent it back with supporting photographic evidence. OIL 
assessed the claim  but declined it. They originally said they wouldnt be accepting the 
claim because Mr M hadnt claimed within an adequate time. But they later explained that it 
was because of two specific exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr M disagreed with the outcome of the claim and made a complaint. OIL issued a final 
response letter re-iterating the reasons for declining the claim. Unhappy, Mr M brought his 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. They considered the terms and conditions of 
the policy and were satisfied with the reasons OIL declined the claim.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked for the case to be considered by an ombudsman. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy explain what it considers to be accidental 
damage. It says the following damage is included: we will cover any unexpected and 
unintended damage caused by something sudden and external while you are in the home.
The policy wording then goes on to list the exclusions that could apply. It says the following:
Excludes damage resulting from:
Cleaning, washing, drying, restoring, reproofing, adjusting, maintaining, repairing, or 
misusing the item
Loss or damage that has occurred gradually over time. 
Considering the circumstances of the claim and the policy terms and conditions, I think OIL 
was within its rights to rely on the above exclusions when declining Mr Ms claim. 
I say this because, Mr M has admitted that in May 2021, he noticed thered been a spillage 
on and near the bed which he attempted to clean up. But by September 2021 (four months 
later), the damage had developed into mould and it wasnt until this point that Mr M made his 
claim.
Mould doesnt instantly develop, its damage that occurs gradually over a period of time  so 
I can see why OIL has applied the exclusion about damage occurring gradually.
Mr M also admitted that he cleaned and presumably attempted to dry the affected area after 
the spillage in May. The attempt of cleaning and drying couldve been what caused further 
damage to the area and may have been the reason that mould developed. Because of this, I 
think the exclusion about cleaning etc was fairly relied on by OIL when choosing to decline 
the claim.
I know Mr M feels strongly about his complaint and has since said that the list of exclusions 
means no claim would be covered and he wouldnt have taken out the policy if hed known. 
But Im satisfied the terms and conditions of the policy set out clearly what is and isnt 
included when claiming for accidental damage. And unfortunately, given the circumstances 
of Mr Ms claim, the length of time that has since passed since the incident and the type of 
damage caused  I think OIL has acted fairly and reasonably when applying the specific 
exclusions of the policy detailed above, and ultimately declining the claim.
If Mr M wishes to make a complaint about the mis-sale of the policy, he will need to contact 
the business directly about this in the first instance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman