DRN-3258656
The complaint
Mr C complains Scottish Equitable Plc trading as Aegon (Aegon) altered the retirement age 
on his Section 32 pension plan from 60 to 65 without his consent. He subsequently states 
that he has been forced to transfer his pension to a new provider resulting in him losing his 
protected tax-free cash. He wants to be compensated for the loss of that benefit.
What happened
Mr C held a Section 32 pension plan invested in a with profits fund. The original policy was 
set up to Mr Cs 60th birthday, this reflected the nominated retirement age on the ceding 
policy. Aegon twice wrote to Mr C prior to his 60th birthday explaining his investment would 
be moved to a cash-based fund should he not confirm what his plans were before then. 
Their letter advised him to seek financial advice if he were unsure what action he should 
take.
As the benefits were not taken at his 60th birthday, Aegon revised the retirement age on the 
plan to 65. At the same time, the underlying investments within the plan were switched by 
Aegon from the with profits fund to a cash-based fund.
Mr C started to query why the retirement date on his plan had changed in February 2021. He 
complained shortly after. Around the same time, he requested a transfer of his benefits to 
another provider.
Aegon investigated Mr Cs concerns and rejected his complaint. Aegon stated the alteration 
of the retirement age from 60 to 65 made no impact other than on the underlying funds. They 
said given they had written to him prior to his 60th birthday, he should have been aware they 
would move his funds to a cash fund.
Dissatisfied, Mr C brought his complaint to this service.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She did not think the complaint 
should be upheld and agreed with Aegons findings.  She concluded it was not unreasonable 
for Aegon to amend the retirement age on Mr Cs plan. This allowed them to continue to 
administer his policy.
Mr C disagreed with her findings. He told our Investigator, in summary, the following:
He did not think it reasonable Aegon only informed him of the retirement date change 
after the event. 
He feels the alteration should only have been made with his express consent, which he 
did not provide. 
He explained that Aegon told him on a call the change should not have taken place.
He feels this issue coupled with an earlier complaint about Aegon led him to conclude his 
pension was being mismanaged and resulted in him having to transfer his fund away.
Our investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she did not believe Aegon had 
done anything wrong.
Mr C asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that assessment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been in if the problem hadnt occurred.
Mr C now seeks an apology from Aegon for altering the retirement age on his plan without 
permission. By moving to a new pension provider, Mr C lost the enhanced tax-free cash 
option his Aegon plan held. He also wants Aegon to recompense him for that lost benefit. 
Mr C said that due to the continued and systematic mismanagement of the policy by Aegon, 
he was obliged to instigate a full fund transfer. Thats despite the loss of his protected tax-
free cash lump sum on transfer.
I do not believe Aegon has acted unfairly in its dealings with Mr C. Whilst I appreciate this 
decision may well be disappointing for him, Ill explain why below.
Aegon wrote to Mr C ahead of his stated retirement age on two occasions, six months and 
three months prior to him reaching his 60th birthday. Their letters explained that should he 
choose not to take the benefits from his pension when he reached age 60, the underlying 
with-profit fund would be switched into Aegons cash fund alternative. Aegon have no 
evidence that Mr C contacted them after those letters were issued and ahead of that 
alteration taking place. What Aegons letter failed to mention though was what action they 
would take with determining a new retirement age.
When Mr C failed to make contact following the two letters issued by Aegon, they amended 
the retirement age on the plan from 60 to 65 and switched his with-profits fund to cash. Mr C 
has suggested this impacted his investment strategy and he lost out as a consequence.
Where a consumer reaches an intended retirement age, it is not uncommon for providers to 
de-risk customers plans by switching out of stock market-based funds and in to cash on the 
assumption benefits will be drawn in the near future. Aegon informed Mr C of its intention to 
do so well ahead of his 60th birthday.
Mr C then failed to update Aegon on his wishes by providing them with a new retirement 
date. I dont believe it unreasonable in such cases for them to make measured assumptions 
by altering the plans expiration to a date in the future. Aegon changed it to Mr Cs 65th 
birthday. In the absence of any specific instructions to take benefits, Aegon still need to 
continue to administer the plan and issue regular statements and updates (something the 
regulator would have expected too). Extending Mr Cs retirement age allowed them to do 
this. Aegon have also explained to this service, they had to extend the retirement age on the plan 
for practical reasons. Theyve told us had they not altered the retirement age, the plan would 
no longer show as being live on their computer systems and Mr C would not be able to 
access his records online. By extending the plan for another 5 years, it retained that 
additional functionality for him. 
Whilst Aegons letter to Mr C failed to mention they would alter the retirement age on the 
plan from 60 to 65, its important to understand the impact of that omission. Aside from the 
enhanced tax-free cash option, Mr Cs pension contained no other valuable features, such 
as a guaranteed annuity rate. So, that meant Mr C was able to draw on his benefits from age 
55 onwards without penalty or, he could defer taking benefits until a point in the future. The 
only impact the noted retirement age has on the policy is the default investment strategy 
which, if Aegon is not advised otherwise, will result in them transitioning the investments into 
cash.
Mr C has explained he is unhappy his monies were moved into a cash fund after his 60th 
birthday. In Aegons letter to Mr C which they issued six months prior to his retirement, they 
explained should he prefer his funds to remain invested after his 60th birthday, he should 
complete an online form setting out his wishes.
If he was unhappy at the time or, any at point thereafter about his investment being moved 
out of the with-profits fund, he could have asked Aegon to move his monies in to other fund 
options with them.  
Whilst I appreciate it would have been preferable for Mr C to learn of that change prior to it 
happening, I dont think the consequences of the alteration are significant. I have considered 
what action he may have taken had he learned earlier of the need to extend the retirement 
age on the plan and I cannot think of a plausible reason why Mr C would not have agreed to 
it or any reason why he was financially disadvantaged by the change.
Disappointed with Aegons service, Mr C made a request to move his pension away from 
Aegon. When Aegon received the request to transfer Mr Cs pension, they immediately 
contacted him to highlight his enhanced tax-free cash would be lost if the monies were 
moved elsewhere. We know Mr C was aware of that as he requested further details from 
Aegon who subsequently provided an illustration. He confirmed to Aegon he understood the 
consequences of moving and wished to progress with the transfer anyway. In addition, Mr C 
has also acknowledged in his complaint to this service, he was aware that by transferring, he 
would forfeit the protected tax-free cash within his existing plan. So, I think Aegon gave Mr C 
the information he needed in relation to his enhanced tax-free cash.
Mr C has explained when he called Aegon to query the alteration to his retirement age he 
was advised that the change should not have happened.  Aegon have explained their Call 
Handler should have informed him of the practical necessity of why the change was needed 
and would not have been aware of the specific situation with his plan.
Mr C argues that he had little choice but to transfer given the poor service he says he 
experienced. I make no comment on Mr Cs experiences over the course of the policy other 
than to say Ive seen nothing in the way Aegon dealt with the change in his retirement age 
(which is at the heart of this complaint) to show he had no choice other than to transfer.
I am satisfied Aegon provided Mr C with sufficient notice of the alteration it would make to 
his investment should he not contact them ahead of his 60th birthday. Aegon was clear in its communications with Mr C the enhanced tax-free cash within his pension would be lost on 
transfer. I am also satisfied that Mr C understood this too. 
I do not believe compensation is due to Mr C as Im satisfied Aegon has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner towards him.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman