DRN-4082975
Complaint
Mr J and Mrs M complain that their mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
were not amended in 2004, when they took out a repayment mortgage. They had previously 
had an interest only mortgage with a Flexible Mortgage Plan (FMP). 
The PPI was sold by another business but ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) is now responsible 
for the PPI so Ive referred only to ReAssure throughout this complaint. 
Background 
Mr J and Mrs M initially took out the policies (one for illness and one for unemployment 
cover), in 2000 to cover the payments on an FMP they took alongside an interest only 
mortgage. 
In 2004, Mr J and Mrs M cancelled the FMP and took out a repayment mortgage with a 
different provider. The PPI policies remained in place. 
In 2021, Mr J and Mrs M say they contacted ReAssure for details of the PPI and realised 
that the benefit amount provided by the PPI would not have been sufficient to cover the 
payments on their repayment mortgage from 2004. This is because when they took out a 
repayment mortgage in 2004, the policy wasnt amended to cover their full monthly 
repayments. The PPI was cancelled but Mr J and Mrs M would also like a refund of the 
premiums they paid from 2004 until cancellation as they dont believe the PPI was suitable 
for them. 
ReAssure says that it is not responsible for ensuring the PPI remained suitable for Mr J and 
Mrs M, and when they changed their mortgage in 2004, they ought to have sought advice 
about the policies to decide what to do with them. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint but did not think Mr J and Mrs Ms complaint 
should be upheld. He explained that ReAssure was under no obligation to assess the 
suitability of the PPI in 2004 when they changed their mortgage, but it was instead Mr J and 
Mrs Ms responsibility to either cancel it or amend it. He also explained that, as they had not 
needed to make a claim, they had not suffered a loss. In fact, because the PPI had remained 
unchanged, the premiums they paid were less than what they would have paid if the PPI had 
been amended to cover the full payments under their new mortgage.  
Mr J and Mrs M didnt agree. They explained that they didnt even know if ReAssure would 
have paid a claim if they had needed to  make a claim as they werent sure the PPI 
remained valid after they cancelled the FMP and took out a repayment mortgage. They 
further added that they telephoned ReAssure in 2004 who advised them the policies could 
remain in place and if the premiums needed to increase to cover the full payments under 
their new repayment mortgage, ReAssure would let them know. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me. In my provisional 
decision of 3 April 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding the complaint. I invited 
both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make before I reached a 
final decision. Mr J and Mrs M made some additional submissions which I will address 
below. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Having reviewed everything provided by ReAssure and Mr J and Mrs M, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why. 
When assessing a complaint of this nature, I must have regard to the obligations on financial 
businesses and consumers. After a policy has been sold, the onus is generally on 
consumers to review it to make sure it still meets their needs, to amend it if different (or more 
extensive cover) is required, or to cancel it if it is no longer required. There is no obligation 
on ReAssure to review Mr J and Mrs Ms circumstances and the PPI to ensure it continued 
to meet their needs. If customers are not sure what they need to do, they need to seek 
specific advice to help them decide how to move forward with their existing financial 
products. 
I can see Mr J and Mrs M were sent a letter in 2003 (by their former PPI provider), setting 
out that they either needed to seek independent financial advice regarding the PPI before 
amending them, or to use the providers advice line for specific advice. This is in line with 
what Ive set out above. 
If specific advice is, however, provided to consumers by a business, we would expect the 
advice to be reasonable. So if Mr J and Mrs M had sought advice in 2004, then ReAssure (or 
its predecessor) ought to have checked that the PPI remained suitable for them after the 
change to their financial circumstances i.e. changing to a repayment mortgage. 
When Mr J and Mrs M initially brought their complaint to this service, they told us that in 
2004, when they changed to a repayment mortgage, they had, 
assumed that the policies would be adjusted to cover the entire [third party] mortgage.
They went on to say: 
The 2 insurances were therefore inadequate and not suitable for our needs as they would 
not have covered us for the entirety of the mortgage, only a small percentage. I believe that [ 
third party]/ReAssure had an obligation to make us aware of this fact.
They do not mention having contacted ReAssure (or its predecessor) for separate advice 
regarding this matter. And Ive seen no evidence that ReAssure or its predecessor reviewed 
Mr J and Mrs Ms financial circumstances to assess the suitability of the PPI in relation to 
their new repayment mortgage, and then advised them to keep the PPI in place unamended. 
While it may be that Mr J and Mrs M may have asked some questions about the PPI, such 
as whether it can be kept or sought other information in relation to it, I havent seen any 
evidence that specific advice was actually sought or given at the time. I would normally 
expect to see a business ask for details of Mr J and Mrs Ms new financial circumstances, 
details of their new mortgage (as this was not something ReAssure was involved with), to 
then provide advice. This would usually be followed up in writing with ReAssures recommendations, with any changes to the PPI also being set out. I havent seen any 
evidence such a review took place. 
If ReAssure (or its predecessor) had been asked for advice in relation to this PPI, then Im 
not sure why it would seek to keep the PPI as it is, when it could have charged significantly 
more premiums to cover the repayments on Mr J and Mrs Ms repayment mortgage. The 
monthly payments on the repayment mortgage was significantly more than the payments 
under the FMP  so the benefit needed would be significantly more and therefore the 
corresponding premiums would likely also be higher than what Mr J and Mrs M actually paid. 
Overall, I dont think its likely that ReAssure gave Mr J and Mrs M any further advice in 2004 
relating to the PPI and their new mortgage. And given that it was otherwise under no 
obligation to review their circumstances, Im not satisfied that it did anything incorrect here. I 
therefore do not think the PPI remaining in place unamended was mainly due to failings on 
the part of ReAssure  so I dont uphold this aspect of their complaint. 
Mr J and Mrs M have also sent in copies of the policy terms they still retain for both the 
illness and unemployment cover. I have reviewed these and based on what I have seen, 
nothing suggests the policies became invalid after Mr J and Mrs M cancelled the FMP and 
took out a repayment mortgage. The terms indicate that as long as there was a valid claim 
for illness or unemployment, the PPI would have paid out the benefit  but of course any 
payments would have been limited to the benefit levels agreed when the policies were 
originally set up. There is a section Mr J and Mrs M have referred to with the heading Further 
Mortgage Options which sets out the conditions under which Mr J and Mrs M can take out 
additional policies without providing further medical evidence- but this does mention anything 
that makes their existing policies invalid. 
I would add that Mr J and Mrs M have also referred to a term setting out that the policy 
cannot be surrendered or transferred. However this appears to be in relation to a life 
insurance policy not PPI  which is common. I havent seen anything that suggests their PPI 
wasnt transferrable. 
As the policies remain in place and it seems ReAssure remained on risk of paying claims, I 
dont see any reason why ReAssure should have to refund the premiums paid from 2004 
onwards as Mr J and Mrs M have requested.
Further submissions 
Mr J and Mrs M have raised a few issues in response to my provisional decision which I will 
now address. 
Firstly, theyve noted that, in the section setting out how much their initial advice costs, there 
is a fee for £1.07 each month until the end of the plan. They have asked whether this 
indicates ReAssure was under an obligation to provide ongoing advice. However, my 
understanding is that the cost set out are in relation to the initial advice and arranging the 
plan and ongoing services for the running of the plan. In any event, as set out in my 
provisional decision, the provider did at the time have an advice line that could have been 
used to provide specific advice. But the provider cannot for example periodically review the 
policies to ensure it is still suitable as it would need to know what/if any changes have 
happened before concluding that a policy remains suitable  so providers arent generally 
able to or obligated to re-assess the suitability of the PPI on an ongoing bases. Consumers 
are, therefore, expected to contact them and ask for advice as and when they need it. And 
Ive seen no evidence that this was sought. I would add that I understand Mr J and Mrs M believe that when they called the provider in 
2004, they thought they had sought advice and were told that the provider would let them 
know if premiums needed to be increased. However, the letter subsequently received on 16 
March 2004 simply provides information about their existing plan and reminds them that they 
should read up on their alternative options before surrendering the plan. They had also 
previously been told they could contact the provider for advice. Nothing Ive seen indicates 
advice had actually been sought and given. I dont disbelieve Mr J and Mrs M spoke to their 
provider and requested information about their products  but as previously explained, if 
advice had been sought, I would have expected the provider to have conducted a full review 
of their new circumstances before making any recommendations  rather than telling them 
that theyd be in touch if premiums needed to be increased. And I re-iterate, it was not in the 
providers interests to make such a decision when it could have charged them considerably 
more premiums to cover the full payments under their new mortgage. 
Mr J and Mrs M have also highlighted a declaration in their plan. But this is simply about the 
current application being in relation to a residential mortgage (rather than commercial or 
other types)  and nothing Ive seen here indicates that their policy became invalid after their 
change in circumstances in 2004. 
Ive also noted their comments about the words they chose in their initial complaint to this 
service. I appreciate and accept their comments. However, at the heart of this complaint is 
that I dont think theres enough evidence here that Mr J and Mrs M sought advice about this 
policy at the time (even perhaps if they believed they had). And the provider was under no 
obligation to provide unsolicited advice after their circumstances changed.
From what I can see, the provider gave Mr J and Mrs M information about their policy, told 
them they could seek advice  and it was up to them to pursue further advice if needed. I 
would add, I have considered the possibility that the person they spoke to wrongly advised 
them the provider would be in touch if their premiums would need to go up  but I dont think 
thats likely. How would the provider, for example, know what premiums need to be charged 
(either more or less), unless they conducted a full fact find as to what was needed in 2004 
after Mr J and Mrs Ms circumstances changed. So I dont think its feasible that the provider 
could have simply increased their premiums without completing a fact find and then merely 
let them know. This is something staff even with a basic understanding of financial products 
would likely know. It may be that a representative set out the process for them which 
included informing them of any changes to the premiums after going through the advice 
process. But I dont think its likely that the representative told them to leave the policies as 
they are, and that the provider would let them know if the premiums will be increased without 
needing to obtain details of their new circumstances. 
I want to reassure Mr J and Mrs M that I have thought about their complaint very carefully  
and I understand they have provided me with their best recollection of events.  But I simply 
havent seen sufficient evidence that persuaded me either that ReAssure gave them 
incorrect advice or that their PPI was, in any event, invalidated in 2004 which would enable 
me to order ReAssure to refund the premiums charged since 2004. 
So, having reviewed this complaint again in its entirety, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. With this in mind, I dont uphold this 
complaint. My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman