DRN-2792332
The complaint
Mr A would like to make a complaint about a mortgage repayment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy held with Aviva Insurance Limited.  
What happened
Mr A contacted Aviva at the end of his mortgage in order to cancel his MPPI policy as it was 
no longer required. When he made the call, Aviva wasnt able to locate the policy  only a 
life insurance policy. It wasnt until Mr A made a complaint about this that the policy was 
located. 
Aviva has said that this was because Mr A had contacted the wrong department. 
Mr A complains that as the policy wasnt able to be located at first that this wouldve 
prevented him from being able to make a claim on the policy if hed ever had to. He feels 
that the MPPI policy may not ever have existed  but that he had paid for it for ten years. 
When Mr A brought the complaint to this service, Aviva offered £50 compensation for the 
error. Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that this was a fair way to settle 
the complaint. 
Mr A did not agree. He wanted a refund on the policy premiums, plus interest and 
compensation for the time and stress that this has caused him and his family.
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
Mr A has made a separate complaint about the life insurance policy which will be looked at 
separately, so I wont comment on this policy in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that Aviva needs to do any more than it has already offered to 
do in order to settle this complaint.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr A as he clearly feels that he should be entitled to 
more compensation. But I dont agree. Ill explain why.
When Mr As mortgage came to an end, he contacted Aviva to cancel his MPPI policy as it 
was no longer required. Unfortunately, the department Mr A spoke with couldnt locate the 
MPPI policy he wished to cancel.
Aviva says that Mr A was speaking to the incorrect department, which is why they couldnt 
locate the policy. But it recognised that it couldve been more helpful in helping Mr A and 
apologised for the confusion it caused.
Mr A says that he had to spend time and effort contacting Aviva in order to identify the policy 
and that he is not convinced that the policy was actually in place  and that this has caused 
him stress and worry as to what may have happened if hed ever tried to make a claim on 
the policy. He says this wouldve left him in vulnerable financial circumstances had he ever 
lost his job during the duration of the policy. He feels that he should be refunded the 
premiums for the policy, plus interest, and further compensation for the stress Aviva caused. 
But the policy did exist. And Mr A didnt ever need to make a claim on his policy  so while 
he may have been worried about what might have been  this never came to pass. And I 
cant make an award for something that didnt happen. 
So, while I agree that Aviva has caused Mr A some stress and worry, I do not feel that it 
need do any more than pay Mr A the £50 it has offered to do.
Putting things right
Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Mr A the £50 it has offered.  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint but set no further award than the £50 offered. Aviva Insurance Limited 
should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman