DRN-3176808
The complaint
Mr S complains Chine Financial Ltd made mistakes when acting as his mortgage broker, 
leading to the lender turning down his mortgage application. Mr S also complains that the 
advice given by Chine prevented him from getting another mortgage on a better rate.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, setting out whatd happened, and what I 
thought about that. Ive copied the relevant sections below, and they form part of this final 
decision. 
On 10 February 2021 Mr S contacted Chine to apply for lending of £298,000 to re-mortgage 
his property. The application was to be submitted to the lender, who Ill call H, for approval. 
Initially the application was approved, subject to a valuation. The property was valued at less 
than had originally been input, which meant the amount being borrowed would need to be 
less  so Chine submitted a second application for Mr S. This was turned down  and by this 
time two hard searches had been completed on Mr Ss credit file. So, he complained to 
Chine about these issues.
Chine said when Mr S got in touch on 10 February 2021, they explained the process of 
applying for the mortgage and how itd be paid for. On 16 February they received all the 
documents, and Mr S agreed to an Agreement in Principle (AIP) taking place, meaning a 
credit search would be carried out by H. Chine say this was approved, and they asked Mr S 
to complete the necessary paperwork. The same day, H approved the mortgage application 
subject to a valuation. This was carried out on 19 February, and the valuation of the property 
was less, meaning the maximum loan thatd be offered was less as well. Chine say they 
explained this to Mr S, and he said he was happy to proceed.
Chine processed this on Hs systems, but then the application was turned down due to the 
credit score. They say they spoke to H, who explained there was a system error their end 
which led to the credit search not taking place properly on the first application, and it was 
only when the lower mortgage amount was applied for it was done correctly. Chine said H 
told them they wouldnt overturn their decision and referenced an unauthorised overdraft 
which they didnt know about as a further reason not to consider granting the lending  but 
this wasnt the reason for the mortgage being turned down, it was due to the credit score. 
Chine said theyd provided H with the information Mr S had given to them  and relied on the 
information H had given them. They said it was unfortunate a technical error occurred, and 
that Mr Ss credit file wasnt checked, but that was outside of their control. So, they wouldnt 
be upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Unhappy with this Mr S asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators did so. He felt 
Chine had made some mistakes leading to distress for Mr S. He recommended Chine refund 
them the fee of £495 theyd charged him for their services as compensation  and said 
Chine should speak to H to see if theyd be prepared to remove the second hard search.
Chine didnt accept this outcome. They said the only oversight theyd made was not telling H 
about the overdraft Mr S had. But, added when submitting a mortgage application to H the 
system alerts them as the broker about anything like this, and if the loan is going to be 
reduced. Chine also emphasised that they were told the reason the application failed was 
due to the credit score  and disclosing the overdraft wouldnt have changed anything. Chine 
added theyd since spoken to H, whod since removed the first hard search  and it never 
should have been applied by them in the first place. And, finally, Chine explained the £495 
fee Mr S was required to pay was never received by them. 
Mr S felt the compensation awarded wasnt enough. Mr S also said Chine didnt tell him he 
had the option to go on to a much better rate with his current provider. He says because of 
Chines advice, that he couldnt apply for another mortgage, then hes been stuck paying his 
higher variable rate on his existing mortgage. He said he cant understand why we wouldnt 
think these additional costs should be refunded as well. And he reiterated that because 
Chine didnt complete his application form properly regarding his overdraft, these are 
obvious reasons why the lending was turned down. So, the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision  this includes listening to the calls Mr S 
has had with our service. If Ive not reflected something thats been said in this decision its 
not because I didnt see or hear it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the 
complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question raised unless 
its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
I also wanted to acknowledge Mr Ss comments about how much of an impact this situation 
has had on him  both regarding his health and his finances. Im genuinely sorry to hear that. 
But, I want to make it clear I can only require Chine to pay Mr S compensation if I think 
theyve made errors leading to an impact on him.
The crux of Mr Ss points are that Chines actions have caused him to lose out on a 
mortgage, and theyve prevented him from moving his mortgage to a more favourable rate.
Have Chine caused Mr S to lose out on getting a mortgage from H?
Mr S has said, in his responses to our Investigator, that he thinks Chine not including his 
overdraft information has caused problems with his application.
I can see that during the investigation of this case conflicting information has been given 
about what happened initially when the application was made.The initial response H gave to Chine about the reason for the application being turned down 
was due to the credit scoring not being completed correctly. Later on, H confirmed this as 
being the correct position when they wrote to Chine and said, regarding the application 
submitted by Chine for Mr S on 16 February 2021:
At this point the case was showing as a credit score pass however on reviewing the details 
the search did not bring up any customer details (no credit commitments etc) so looks like it 
hadnt scored him properly  meaning the original submission of the application should have 
been a credit score fail.
Im aware different reasons have been given for why the first application was turned down 
while this was being looked into. But I think its reasonable to accept this explanation as the 
reason H turned down the application  as this explanation was provided by H to Chine after 
their investigation into what happened had been completed.
Chine had an obligation to record all of the correct information and share that with H. I cant 
reasonably say theyve done that, as they didnt include the overdraft information and they 
should have done.
But, I think this information from H is clear and unambiguous  whatever checks they may or 
may not have completed didnt bring up any of Mr Ss details, including his credit 
commitments. That means whether the overdraft was or wasnt mentioned by Chine (or any 
other errors they may or may not have made) on the application they submitted has had no 
impact on the outcome of the lending decision by H.
Its clear there was some confusion about why the second application was turned down, 
when the first application was accepted for a higher amount. Having looked at the internal 
notes provided by Chine I can see they were seeking clarification from H, and did challenge 
them and their underwriters, on the reason for this happening.
As Mr Ss mortgage broker, I dont think they could have done anything more. A decision on 
whether to lend can only be made by the lender, in this case H. What Chine did was 
challenge them on their reasoning for the application not being accepted. I can see they then 
explained this to Mr S  and what they explained to him was what H had told them.
I can see our Investigator explained he felt Chine had made a number of errors. Chine 
accepted theyd made an error about not recording the overdraft on the application  but not 
the remaining points he mentioned. Ive not addressed each of these. And the reason for 
that is because, based on the above, it would seem the correct course of action was for H to 
have turned down the first application. That isnt something Chine knew or could have known 
at the time  nor would anything they did have changed this because the application being 
turned down wasnt as a result of something Chine did or didnt do. So, because of that, I 
dont find them responsible for the impact this had on Mr S  meaning I dont require them to 
pay Mr S the £495 compensation our Investigator recommended.
Have Chine prevented Mr S from moving his mortgage on to a more favourable rate?
Mr S says he was told by Chine because two hard credit searches had now been recorded, 
he should leave it a few months before applying for a new mortgage again. He feels because 
of the mistakes that happened in the application, theyre responsible for the two hard credit 
searches being applied. Mr S also says more recently that he became aware Chine should 
have told him he could have spoken to his existing lender and got himself on a better rate 
than the one hes been paying.Chine say they wouldnt have expected H to have recorded two different credit searches  
because the applications were made so close together. So, they couldnt have known this to 
tell Mr S about it. They also point out they didnt make the mistake with the first application 
as well. Regarding telling Mr S about speaking to his existing lender to get a better rate they 
say they did  but at this time Mr S was firmly focused on the issues with H and wasnt 
prepared to listen to them.
Ive significant sympathy for the situation Mr S found himself in here. Through no fault of his 
own he ended up with two hard credit searches being applied to his credit file. I can see H 
told Mr S theyd remove the first search on 5 March 2021 due to errors, but the second 
search would remain unless Chine asked them to remove it.
Again, I need to carefully consider the impact on Mr S  in the context of whether I think 
Chine did anything wrong that led to that impact. If Chine werent responsible for what 
happened, then I cant fairly require them to take any action.
Ive already found that Chine werent responsible for the initial error. Had things seemingly 
happened as they should have done, H wouldnt have accepted the first application. This 
would still have led to one hard search being carried out on Mr Ss credit file  but only one. 
Which is the position Mr S credit file is now in.
Mr S has also expressed concerns he wasnt told by Chine that the second application would 
lead to a second hard credit search being carried out. I can understand why hes making this 
point, as he says this is whats led to all of the issues hes had. Chine have said they 
wouldnt have expected a second hard search to have been carried out.
I agree with that. Generally, when a second application is made in such a short time after (in 
Mr Ss case, three days) a second search wouldnt usually be carried out. So, I dont think 
Chine could reasonably have known that at the time they were talking to Mr S  so I dont 
think its unreasonable they didnt tell him this was a possibility. Thatd mean he should be 
left with only one hard search. This is the position he finds himself in now. So, I wont be 
upholding this element of Mr Ss complaint.
Id also add that based on Mr Ss testimony, he was told the reason not to apply for another 
mortgage for a few months was because he had two hard credit searches on his credit file. 
The second application was made on 22 February 2021, and I can see Mr S was told on 
5 March 2021 by H that one of the searches was being removed. So, within a fortnight the 
reason Mr S says he was told not to apply for a new mortgage wasnt an issue anymore  as 
there was only one search. Ive not seen any testimony showing he queried this with Chine 
or anyone else after H removed one of the searches to see if it made a difference to the 
advice Chine had given him about applying elsewhere. And Chine have told us they didnt 
know the first search had been removed so couldnt have told Mr S about it. 
I have noted Mr Ss argument he was told by Chine to leave it and not apply elsewhere. And 
I understand his point about relying on the advice he was being given. But, hed already 
expressed his unhappiness at the way things were being managed for him. The advice itself 
to not apply elsewhere while two credit searches were present is something I think is 
reasonable advice. But, once the first search had been removed by H, I think Mr S could 
have queried this with Chine, H or another provider  but Ive not seen he did that. 
Turning now to his concerns regarding Chine not telling him about changing on to a different 
product with his existing lender. Mr S says they should have and didnt, leading to him 
paying more for his mortgage now than he needed to  and Chine say they did try to tell him, 
but he wasnt prepared to listen to their advice. Chine have said they dont have call recordings they can provide to prove what happened. 
So, in situations where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, I have to 
decide what I think is more likely than not.
I cant know whether they did or didnt  as theres not enough evidence to prove either way. 
But, setting that aside, Ive also thought about what I think Mr S is likely to have known at the 
time of applying for his mortgage. When raising this point to our service, Mr S said I was 
remortgaging for the reasons youve mentioned but also because I had gone onto a variable 
rate with my current mortgage.
So, Mr S had gone on to a variable rate with his current mortgage  and knew this at the 
time of contacting Chine. Given that, it seems more likely than not to me that he was made 
aware of this by his existing lender  who would have told him about his other options or, at 
least, said to call them if he wanted to discuss his options. Thatd have made Mr S aware he 
could have spoken to his existing lender if he wanted to.
But, even if they didnt say these points, I dont think any advice given by Chine would have 
prevented Mr S from speaking to his existing lender given the concerns he says he had 
about Chines advice. Mr S knew enough about the mortgage process to know he could 
approach a broker to see if he could get a new mortgage. So, it seems fair to say he also 
should reasonably have been aware he could have spoken to his lender about the issues he 
was having  or speak to another broker to get another opinion.
With that in mind, Im satisfied Chine arent responsible for two credit searches being applied 
(the first of which has been removed by H), and their advice wouldnt have prevented him 
from exploring his options with his existing lender.
Summary
Overall then, although I think Chine have made at least one mistake on Mr Ss original 
mortgage application, I dont find its led to any detriment to Mr S. Because of that, I wont be 
telling them to pay £495 compensation our Investigator recommended. And, as Mr S is now 
left with one search, which is correct, I wont be asking Chine to speak to H about removing 
it from his credit files.
Because Ive found that Chine havent made mistakes leading to detriment to Mr S, I also 
wont be telling them to pay the increased mortgage payments hes been paying.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S replied, and Ive summarised his response in my own words. He said he couldnt 
understand why Id not recognised that Chines mistakes led him to having confusion and not 
trusting them  and that itd cost him time. Mr S felt the impact of this had to be 
compensated, and it was wrong it wasnt. Mr S felt it wasnt fair Chine werent being held to 
account for anything. He said our Investigator had said hed listened to a call between Chine 
and H and had been told that changing the loan to value would mean a second hard search 
would be reported  but he wasnt told about that. As hed not been told about it, then he 
was denied the opportunity to decide what to do. 
In summary, Mr S said he was confused by how I was addressing his complaint and was 
concerned I wasnt recommending compensation. 
Chine said they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have replied, Ive now been able to finalise my decision.
Ive firstly thought about Mr Ss comments he wasnt told about the second search being 
recorded - and being denied the opportunity to decide what to do about this.
As Ive set out above in my provisional decision, I agree with Chines position that they 
wouldnt have expected a second search to have been recorded. The call Mr S is referring to 
happened after the second application had been made. So, in not expecting a search hard 
search to have been made (which I agree with) and not being told about the expectation 
from H a second hard search would be recorded until after the second application had been 
made  Chine couldnt have told Mr S about that possibility in advance. So, although I 
understand Mr Ss concerns, I dont think Chine need to do anything further on this point. 
In respect of Mr Ss frustration about how Chine have handled his application overall  I do 
agree theyve made at least one mistake (not recording the overdraft as Ive mentioned 
above). But, overall, I dont think any mistakes Chine have made have led to detriment for 
Mr S. From what I can see, theyve processed his application, and then relied on the 
information given to them by H about why the second application got turned down following 
the valuation.
I do accept Mr S has been impacted by whats happened, experiencing quite significant 
frustration as his application being turned down when the second application was made. But 
that isnt something I can hold Chine responsible for  nor do I think it was clear, at the time 
of the second application being made, why this had happened which is where I think much of 
Mr Ss frustration stems from. Following that decision by H, Chine have provided Mr S with 
updates which were based on their experience of handling mortgage applications, and what 
H were telling them.
Overall then, although I do accept Mr S has experienced significant frustration in this 
mortgage application, I dont find Chine are responsible for that. So, its because of that I 
wont be awarding Mr S any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman