DRN-3206517
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Pinnacle Insurance Plc didnt accept a claim made on his mortgage 
paymentCover insurance policy  a type of income protection insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
Mr M took out the policy many years ago. In March 2020 - due to the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic - Mr M was unable to work in his self-employed profession. He made a claim 
under the unemployment section of the policy. That claim wasnt accepted because he 
hadnt formally ceased to trade as defined by the policy. 
Pinnacle subsequently said it wouldnt be asking self-employed people like Mr M to cease 
trading to claim the unemployment benefit because he intended to return to the same job 
after Covid-19 restrictions had been lifted. However, it said he needed to establish that he 
met the other requirements of the unemployment definition under the policy, for his claim to 
succeed.
Pinnacle concluded that Mr P hadnt been able to establish that hed been actively seeking 
work, so the claim still wasnt accepted.
Mr M didnt think that was fair. So, he brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into what happened and didnt think Pinnacles decision not to accept the claim based 
on the information Mr M had given it was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mr M disagreed and requested an Ombudsmans decision. So, his complaint has been 
passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr M was self-employed. So, as well as satisfying other criteria, under the policy 
definition of being unemployed/unemployment, Mr M needed to have ceased 
trading, as defined by the policy. Although Mr M wasnt able to meet this criterion, 
Pinnacle ultimately said Mr M didnt need to have ceased trading for the 
unemployment benefit to be paid  so long as the other criteria were met.
The definition of being unemployed included the criterion that Mr M was available 
for and actively seeking work and being able to provide evidence of this. Pinnacle 
says Mr M didnt provide evidence that hed been actively seeking work. From 
looking at the information he was able to provide Pinnacle, I dont think it has 
unreasonably or unfairly concluded that Mr M hadnt met this criterion. Mr M was only 
able to say that he contacted one establishment to request an application form but 
heard nothing back.
I appreciate what Mr M says about the job market  particularly during the earlier part 
of 2020 (in the months after the first national lockdown in March 2020) and 
subsequent lockdowns later in 2020 and early 2021. I also understand what he says 
about having to look after his son when schools closed at certain times in 2020 and 
2021 - and that this may have made jobs more difficult to apply for. However, I dont 
think Pinnacle has acted unfairly by requesting some evidence that he was making 
enquiries and actively seeking work, even if it was to fit around his other personal 
commitments at the time.   
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman