DRN-3979107
The complaint
Mr T complains about the incorrect information provided to him when making a mortgage 
application with Scottish Widows Bank Plc
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions of the investigator for largely the same reasons. 
Ill explain why. 
Scottish Widows has accepted it made a mistake when providing Mr Ts broker with 
information about the overpayment year as part of the mortgage. Mr Ts broker was told the 
mortgage year would run from 1 June to 31 May, but this was incorrect as the mortgage year 
for the product ran from the date the mortgage completed. So, for Mr T this meant his 
mortgage year ran from 21 April to 20 April. 
Mr T made an overpayment in May 2022 but was told that he wouldnt be able to make a 
further payment until after 21 April 2023 as per the terms and conditions of his mortgage. He 
says he was surprised as he planned on making a further payment before that date but was 
now unable to because he would be liable for the early repayment charge. I appreciate that 
this would have been frustrating for him especially because of what hed been told following 
the mortgage application process. Mr T says he should be allowed to make a further 
overpayment without being penalised. 
Where a business has provided misinformation like this, our general approach is to put the 
consumer in the position they would have been in, if the misinformation hadnt been made. 
We dont always expect the business to honour the misinformation. So as Scottish Widows 
dont have set overpayment years, but the overpayment years are based on the date of 
completion Mr T would never really have been entitled to make two overpayments in the 
period he wanted to with Scottish Widows. 
I need to consider if Mr T would have done things differently had he been given the correct 
information, but Im not persuaded he would have. I say this because Mr T had already 
agreed the borrowing he wanted to take and while I can see he was seeking clarification on 
the year the overpayments could be made, I havent seen anything to suggest he would not 
have taken the product or gone with a different lender if hed been given the right 
information. 
Mr T told us there were other lenders that offered the possibility of him being able to make 
two overpayments during this period. But Mr T had decided to take a product with Scottish 
Widows even though he said its terms on this point werent clear with it, so I think its more 
likely hed already decided this was the product he wanted possibly based on other factors 
the Scottish Widows mortgage product offered.
Mr T also said he may have taken a lower borrowing if hed been given the right information 
and that may be the case now in hindsight. But from the evidence provided to us Mr T had 
already agreed the mortgage borrowing prior to querying the overpayment information and 
nothing from the evidence suggests Mr T was at the time considering borrowing a lower 
amount. So on balance I think he would still have taken the borrowing for the amount hed 
initially decided to take. 
Whilst Mr T was given misleading information and should be compensated for that, for the 
reasons mentioned I dont think it would be reasonable to ask Scottish Widows to do more 
than it has already offered. And, when considering everything, including the impact of the 
loss of expectation for Mr T from Scottish Widows actions, I think the £50 compensation it 
has offered him for the misinformation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman