DRN-1869033
The complaint
This complaint is about an equity release mortgage which, until recently Mr and Mrs H held 
with Liverpool Victoria Life Company Limited (LV). Theyre unhappy at having to pay 
accrued interest and an early repayment charge (ERC) when they sold their property (thus 
redeeming the mortgage) and bought a new property that LV had said wasnt acceptable 
security.
 
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
in detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr and Mrs H took the mortgage out in 2014, on the advice and recommendation of a 
third-party broker. The terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly repayments are 
required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be repaid if the last surviving borrower 
goes into full-time nursing care or after their death. It can be repaid voluntarily before either 
of those events have happened, but then an ERC is payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance, and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Mr and Mrs H recently decided to move. However, when they asked LV about transferring 
the equity release mortgage to the new property, it declined, saying that the property type  
a retirement home less than three years old  wasnt acceptable security under its lending 
policy. 
Mr and Mrs H went ahead with the move, securing a new equity release mortgage with a 
different provider. But this meant ending the mortgage with LV, which resulted in them 
paying around £50,000 of accrued interest that had rolled up since the mortgage started, 
plus an ERC of around £7,000. Mr and Mrs H believe thats unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Mr and Mrs H have referred to the ERC as a penalty. I can understand why they might feel 
penalised in the general sense but the word has a specific meaning in a contract, In law, a 
penalty is a cost applied when a contract has been broken; here, the ERC is a term that 
allows one of the parties (Mr and Mrs H) to end the contract early, so it cannot be a penalty.
In asking for a decision from an ombudsman, Mr and Mrs H have pointed to the mortgage 
conditions, saying they imply clearly that house moves are accepted occurrences. In fact, 
the position is little more nuanced than that. As a starting point, no one is entitled to borrow 
money; even where a lender has lent before, its not obliged to do so again. But a lender 
must treat customers fairly. In the context of an application for lending, that means assessing 
it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria. 
Lenders criteria are commercially sensitive and not usually made public. Also, generally 
speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial 
judgement on whether (and how much) it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that 
position here. 
The key reference point here is the point of sale documentation from 2014. The mortgage 
offer sets out  in terms consistent with LVs regulatory obligations  that the outstanding 
balance can be transferred to a new mortgage on a different property. But it also sets out the 
caveat that the proposed new property must be acceptable security to LV. For 
completeness, I note that a similar narrative is included on the application form for the 
mortgage that Mr and Mrs H submitted to LV.
What is or is not acceptable security is a matter for LVs commercial judgement and it 
doesnt form part of a mortgage contract; not least because lenders criteria change from 
time to time to reflect changes in the economic and regulatory climate. Rather, it forms part 
of LVs lending criteria. As I said earlier, lenders arent expected to make their lending 
criteria public, although I note that LV does do so with the particular restriction that applies 
here.
I understand why, on hearing of LVs restriction on acceptable security, Mr and Mrs H 
decided that continuing the purchase with a different lender was less disruptive than starting 
again to find a property on which LV could lend. Ultimately, the decision to redeem was 
Mr and Mrs Hs choice, and its possible they avoided other abortive costs by doing so. But 
they made that choice knowing that it would mean theyd have to pay the accrued interest 
and the ERC.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Dr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman