DRN-4095836
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont 
refund the money it lost in a scam.
Ms B and Ms A, who are directors of S, bring the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened
S had used a supplier Ill refer to in this decision as P for some years. In May 2022 S and P 
communicated about balances to settle and P noted that it owed S £5,000. S then received 
an email purportedly from P that set out a new proposal for the payment of £5,000 to S. The 
email also said that the sender would update its bank details (so S could pay for an order) as 
an audit was being completed on the account S had previously used and the account 
couldnt receive any funds. Ms B and Ms A didnt know at the time, but Ss email account 
had been hacked and this email and a subsequent email confirming the account details to 
make payment to had been intercepted by a scammer.  
On 14 June 2022 funds were transferred from Ss bank account to Wise and Ms B then 
transferred 100,000USD (£83,007.83) from Wise to the new account details provided. One 
of the directors of S reported the scam to Wise on 23 June 2022, after the genuine company 
P confirmed that it hadnt sent the email with amended payment details. Ms B and Ms A say 
that the fake emails were very similar in content to the genuine emails they had previously 
received, and they didnt notice the slightly different ending to the email address. The fake 
emails were also allegedly from the person at P they had dealt with for around six years and 
the scammers referred to the £5,000 P owed to S, so they had no reason to suspect 
anything was amiss. 
Wise said it wasnt responsible for Ss loss. It referred to its terms and conditions and said it 
cant get involved in disputes between senders and recipients. Wise also said that it was Ms 
B and Ms As responsibility to ensure the legitimacy of any given transaction. Whilst Wise 
attempted to recall the lost funds it hadnt received a response from the recipient. Wise 
accepted though that it hadnt provided adequate support or communication while it was 
investigating the complaint and paid S £200 in recognition of this. 
Ms B and Ms A, on behalf of S, were unhappy with Wises response and brought a complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in full, and 
that interest should also be paid. This was because the scam payment was unusual as it 
was high value and to a new payee. The investigator didnt think liability should be split for a 
number of reasons including the fact the fake email address was very similar to the genuine 
company, as was the content of the email (which also referred to an offer the genuine 
company had made). He felt the amount already paid in respect of the service provided was 
fair. 
S accepted the investigators findings, but Wise did not, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider. In summary, Wise said:
- Its unfair to hold Wise liable as a payment processor when the funds originated from 
Ss bank account. This bank was in a much better position to understand Ss normal 
account activity.
- Before the scam transaction S had only made six transactions over the period of a 
year and a half so Wise didnt have significant account activity to compare the scam 
transaction with. 
- Its not unusual to use Wise for large transfers and S had a business account so 
larger transactions are commonplace.
- S used Wises services as expected  to make large international payments with 
currency exchange (to USD).
- If Wise had intervened the scam wouldnt have been uncovered for the same 
reasons the investigator gave for not splitting liability. Ms B would have advised Wise 
that she was paying a known and trusted supplier and the change in payment details 
wasnt unexpected. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the customers account. And a customer will then be responsible for 
those transactions that they have authorised. 
Its not in dispute here that Ms B authorised the payment. She accepts she made it herself, 
as instructed to by the scammer. So, while I recognise that she didnt intend the money to go 
to a scammer, the starting position in law is that Wise was obliged to follow her instructions 
and process the payments. So S isnt automatically entitled to a refund. 
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice at the time, also set out an 
expectation for account providers to consider the interests of their customers and treat them 
fairly. And I think this included monitoring accounts to look out for unusual activity and trying 
to protect customers from fraud and financial harm. So Ive also thought about whether Wise 
did enough to try to keep Ss account safe.
Having considered previous activity on Ss account Im satisfied that Wise ought to have 
intervened and asked Ms B or Ms A questions about the reason for the payment. I say this 
because I consider the transaction stood out as unusual. It was for a much greater amount 
than any previous payment on the account and was made after the account hadnt been 
used for a period of around fourteen months. 
From November 2020 S only paid two recipients  P and another. Between November 2020 
and January 2021 S made a series of payments to another party with the maximum 
transaction being for nearly £38,000. S started to pay P in February 2021 but had only made 
two small payments before the scam  in February and April 2021. The next payment was 
the £83,007.83 scam payment. In the circumstances, Im satisfied the scam payment stood 
out as unusual. 
I accept that Wise accounts can be used for one off large transfers but dont think that 
means Wise shouldnt monitor accounts for signs of unusual activity that might indicate a 
customer is at risk of financial harm. 
I disagree with Wise that any intervention by it wouldnt have uncovered the scam and 
prevented the payments being made. Given Wises knowledge of email intercept scams of 
this nature I consider that Wise ought reasonably to have asked Ms B or Ms A how the 
payment details were received. On being advised the payment details were sent by email (and with its knowledge that the payment details had changed from previous transactions) I 
think Wise should have given a clear warning about email intercept scams and how to avoid 
falling victim to them. The advice ought to have covered calling P on a known number (not 
the number provided in the email setting out the new payment details) to check the payment 
details are correct. Had Wise have taken this step, the scam would have been uncovered 
and the loss prevented. Wise are the experts here and should have been alert to this type of 
scam. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Ms B and Ms A, on behalf of S, should share responsibility 
for the loss. I dont think it would be fair to hold S partly responsible in this case though. S 
received an email from a regular supplier it had built up a relationship with. The email was 
from the person at that business Ms B and Ms A usually dealt with and there was nothing 
unusual about the content of the email to alert them to the fact that something might be 
wrong. Importantly, the email also demonstrated an understanding of Ss relationship and 
dealings with the genuine company. The fact Ps bank details changed also wasnt unusual 
as this had happened before. And the fake email address was very similar to the genuine 
one. In the absence of any form of warning from Wise about email intercept scams I dont 
consider Ms B acted unreasonably in making the payment to the account the scammer 
provided details of. 
Wise has suggested that Ss bank should be approached. This service has considered a 
complaint about Ss bank. I cant provide any details about that complaint here, but I can 
reassure Wise that S wont be reimbursed twice for the same loss. In any event, the transfer 
from Ss bank to Wise was a me-to-me transfer so Ss bank would have less reason to be 
concerned. 
Given that I am upholding this complaint in full I dont need to consider whether Wise did 
enough to recover Ss lost funds but for completeness Ill discuss this briefly. The scam was 
reported on 23 June 2022, but Wise didnt contact the bank that received Ss funds until 29 
June. I think Wise should have done so sooner but that the delay hasnt made a difference 
here. This is because the receiving bank never responded to Wises request to return funds 
and likely wouldnt have done if Wise had got in touch as soon as the scam was reported. As 
the payment wasnt made to a non-UK bank there wasnt anything more that Wise could 
have done.
Im satisfied that the £200 Wise has offered in respect of the service it provided is fair. If 
Wise hasnt made this payment already it should do so now. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Wise did enough to protect Ss funds and believe that had it 
intervened appropriately Ss loss could have been prevented. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I require Wise Payments Limited to:
- Refund £83,007.87
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple from the date of the 
transaction to the date of settlement (less tax if properly deductible). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman