DRN-4342382
The complaint
Mr W complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS). 
What happened
In August 2022, Mr W acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with VWFS. 
The car was about four years old and had travelled 17,890 miles when it was supplied to Mr 
W. The cash price of the car was £15,188.75. Mr W part exchanged another vehicle which 
had some negative equity on it. So, the total amount financed on this agreement was 
£15,188.59 payable over 48 monthly repayments. 
In February 2023 Mr W complained to VWFS about the quality of his car. Mr W said in 
November 2022 he started experiencing various electrical issues with it. He said his car has 
lost power on about two occasions and both were within six months of the car being supplied 
to him. Mr W said he took the car to a garage that was recommended by the dealership who 
ran a diagnostic and couldnt find any data on the power control module (PCM). Mr W is 
concerned that the data was deleted by the dealership or that it doesnt exist in the first 
place.
Mr W said this situation has caused him extreme stress and worry. He said his wife had 
recently given birth and was having to use a taxi to get around. Mr W says he wants to end 
the agreement and return the car without any penalties.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service for investigation prior to VWFS completing their 
investigation. However, on 11 August 2023 VWFS issued their final response, which they 
didnt uphold. VWFS explained they reached their decision as no fault was found with the 
car.
Following VWFS final response and having reviewed all the information on file, our 
investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. Our investigator 
concluded that as there was no expert evidence to show a fault existed when the car was 
supplied, he couldnt say it wasnt of satisfactory quality.
VWFS accepted this recommendation. However, Mr W didnt. So, he asked that his 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. VWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
Mr W has raised concerns about the way VWFS have handled the complaint against them. 
For example, in his complaint form Mr W points out VWFS gave him conflicting information, 
and that there was a delay when assigning to him a case handler. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity in its own right. Nor is it one of the specified non-regulated activities that 
Im able to deal with under our compulsory jurisdiction (DISP Rule 2.3.1R). And so, Im 
unable to look into the specifics of this.
My focus in this decision is on the quality of the goods that was supplied to Mr W by VWFS 
through the hire purchase agreement.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that VWFS supplied Mr W with a used car that had travelled 17,890 
miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level 
of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
signs of wear and tear due to its usage. Having said that, the car was priced at over 
£15,000, which isnt insignificant. It also wasnt a particularly old vehicle. So, I think it is fair 
to say that a reasonable person would expect it could be used free from any major issues for 
a reasonable period of time.
From the information provided Im persuaded there was a fault with the car. Although Ive 
seen no diagnostics or expert reports advising of a fault, I find what Mr W said to be 
compelling. The images and videos provided by Mr W persuades me that hes experienced 
issues that are possibly connected to the illumination of the engine management light. 
Having considered the car had a fault, Ive considered whether it was of satisfactory quality 
at the time of supply. 
Satisfactory quality
The dealership advised after inspection of the car, that they found zero faults in the PCM 
and were unable to confirm any defects during testing. 
When Mr W brought his complaint to our service his main concern was that the PCM had no 
data recorded on it and that he was told it was a possibility that it had been wiped. Mr W was concerned that either the dealership had tampered with it in some way to erase the data, or 
that the PCM was not recording information.
Mr W also believed the car had an electrical fault which had caused it to lose power on 
occasions and was affecting the EML and daytime running light. 
I acknowledge the images sent in by Mr W showed an illumination on the dashboard, 
however, although this persuades me that something is wrong with the car, Im unable to say 
what the issue is, how its developed or whether it renders the car to be of unsatisfactory 
quality.
Mr W also shared a video of the car being checked by a mechanic, although no faults were 
confirmed. The daytime running light was highlighted as requiring further investigation, but 
no commentary as given as to whether it was inherently faulty or connected to a wider 
electrical issue. In addition to this, Ive also seen no evidence of the car losing power.
I recognise Mr Ws strength of feeling that the issues would have been developing when he 
acquired the car, however, as Mr W was able to travel around 7,000 miles from the point of 
supply, I think its reasonable to say the car was performing at the point it was supplied to 
him.
Having also reviewed the MOT history for Mr Ws car, although I recognise the MOT checks 
are not particularly intrusive, I cant see that that there were any advisories or fails since Mr 
W acquired the car.
As Ive seen no evidence which provides further details about what Mr W has said, for 
example in the form of an expert report or diagnostics, confirming what the fault is and that it 
was likely to be developing at the point of supply, Im satisfied that on balance its 
reasonable to conclude that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to him.
As Ive concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, I dont 
require VWFS to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman