DRN-2993301
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a driveway he paid for through an agreement with 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi).  
Mr M has been represented throughout this complaint but for ease, and because Mr M is 
named on the finance documents, I will refer only to him in this decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr M made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the work to the driveway and landscaping 
should have been of satisfactory quality. If it wasnt then theres been a breach of contract 
and Hitachi should uphold Mr Ms section 75 complaint and put things right.
Hitachi have now accepted the findings of the inspector who provided his view on the 
condition of the driveway. I think Mr M was entitled to expect the driveway not to sink and 
crack in such a short time period or for the manhole to have been covered up. I dont think 
the driveway has proven to be durable and the relevant legislation asks us to consider that 
when deciding if the goods were of satisfactory quality. I dont therefore think the driveway 
has been of satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business to carry out a repair. Only 
if this repair fails is the consumer entitled to reject the goods and, as no repair has been 
attempted, I think Hitachi should be allowed to complete one.
I can understand that Hitachi would expect that repair to be carried out by the original 
supplier. But I think its clear the relationship between Mr M and the supplier has broken 
down and in those circumstances I dont think it would be fair to expect Mr M to allow the 
supplier to carry out further work on his property.
So, Hitachi should arrange to have the drive repaired to a satisfactory standard.
Mr M has also been inconvenienced by these issues. Ive seen, for instance, that hes had to 
wait too long for a resolution and has been visited unannounced by an inspector. The 
business have offered £800 compensation in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand that Mr M has proposed an alternative resolution, but the relevant legislation 
explains that the business should be given an opportunity to repair the fault. So, in those 
circumstances I dont think they need to provide a refund or remove the driveway and it 
wouldnt be fair to ask Hitachi to make changes to the finance agreement.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to:
repair the driveway to a satisfactory standard through an alternative supplier and at 
no cost to Mr M;
pay Mr M £800 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman