DRN-3035622
The complaint
Mr G complains on behalf of the estate of his late grandmother that TSB Bank plc will not 
allow him to access the funds in her accounts.
What happened
Mr Gs paternal grandmother had two accounts with TSB. After she died, Mr G obtained a 
letter of administration on the basis that she had died intestate. He asked TSB for the money 
in the accounts.
However, Mr Gs mother told TSB that she was named in her late mother-in-laws will as the 
executrix, and she asked TSB to give her the money. Mr G insists that the will is a forgery. 
His mother has not been granted probate, but there are ongoing court proceedings between 
him and his mother. TSB says it will not pay any money out until the dispute has been 
resolved by a court (other than three payments it has made to third parties, which related to 
the funeral expenses and the cost of the grave and headstone).
Mr G complained to TSB and then to our service. He said that since he has a letter of 
administration, he unequivocally represents the estate and is entitled to receive the money 
TSB is holding. He says that there is no reason for TSB not to pay the money to him 
immediately, and that the ongoing court case with his mother is irrelevant. He asked for 
compensation for the delay.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said TSB had acted reasonably by holding 
on to the funds until the court case is concluded. Mr G asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that TSB has done nothing wrong. I will explain why. But before I do 
that, I will deal with Mr Gs eligibility to bring this complaint, since there has been some 
uncertainty over this point.
Mr G is not eligible to complain in his own right. He brings this complaint as the 
representative of his grandmothers estate. (She would have been eligible to complain about 
TSB if she was still alive and if TSB was denying her access to the money in her accounts.) 
I do not need to investigate whether the will is genuine or forged to decide whether Mr G is 
entitled to represent the estate. Mr G has been granted a letter of administration, which 
I have seen, and I have also seen letters from the Probate Office which confirm that the 
letter of administration remains valid, notwithstanding the legal dispute about the purported 
will. So I am satisfied that the letter of administration is sufficient authority under the law for 
our service to entertain Mr Gs complaint on behalf of the estate.
That position may change in the future, if the court decides that the will is valid and the 
Probate Office revokes the letter of administration. But that has not happened yet, and it 
might never happen at all. I dont think it is necessary for me to wait and see what happens 
before deciding what to do with this complaint. That could take a while, and our service has 
a duty to resolve cases quickly. Meanwhile, I think that authority to represent the estate is no 
less valid just because it is contingent on an event which may or may not happen. So at time 
of writing, I think that Mr G can bring this complaint and that I may consider its merits.
However, I think that TSB is entitled to take a more cautious view of the matter. That is 
because it has a duty to protect the money in its customers accounts, and that includes 
deceased customers. If it released the funds to either of the people who are claiming them, 
only for a court later on to decide that the other person had been entitled to the funds all 
along, then TSB would be at risk of a further complaint to our service, or a legal action in 
court. So I think it is reasonable of it to want to be careful, and to wait and see. (The fact that 
I have not waited does not affect my view of TSBs decision to wait; I dont think it is relevant. 
I am not responsible for safeguarding a five-figure sum of money.)
I could stop here. But I cannot refrain from observing that the question of the validity of the 
will appears to be entirely moot. The beneficiaries of the will are the same people who would 
inherit the estate under the rules of intestacy. In other words, it makes no difference whether 
Mr G or his mother ends up obtaining the funds, provided that whoever gets them complies 
with the law and ensures that the funds are distributed correctly. I would encourage Mr G 
and his mother to try to settle the court case as soon as possible, rather than dragging the 
matter out any longer.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision, on behalf of the estate, before 12 October 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman