DRN-3645161
Complaint
Mr M is unhappy with Sainsburys Bank Plcs decision to close his credit card account 
without notice and to load a fraud marker against his name.
Background
This case turns on three different properties to which Mr M has a connection. Ill refer to 
these as Addresses A, B and C.
Mr M applied for a credit card with Sainsburys Bank. On his application, he said that he was 
living at Address A. Around one month after taking out the credit card, he changed his 
details online and said that he was now residing at Address B.
The quick change of address prompted Sainsburys Bank to carry out more detailed checks. 
It was concerned to learn that Mr M wasnt registered to vote at Address A and that he had 
an outstanding mortgage in connection with Address C. He hadnt mentioned that address at 
all as part of his application. Mr M explained that he had been living with family at Address A. 
Significant renovation work meant that he couldnt live at Address C at the time. Address B 
was rental accommodation that Mr M moved into shortly after taking out the card. 
Sainsburys Bank was concerned by the irregularities with the information Mr M had 
submitted. It chose to close his account without giving notice and loaded a Cifas marker 
against his name. Mr M was unhappy with this and so he complained. Sainsburys Bank was 
satisfied it had made the correct decision. Mr M was unhappy with that and so he referred 
his complaint to this service.
It was looked at by an Adjudicator who upheld it. The Adjudicator said that Sainsburys Bank 
couldnt justify loading a Cifas marker. He also said that, while it was free to close Mr Ms 
account with notice, its decision to do so without notice was motivated by its decision to load 
a Cifas marker. For that reason, he thought it had acted unfairly. He recommended 
Sainsburys Bank pay Mr M £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience this had 
caused him.
Sainsburys Bank disagreed with the Adjudicators opinion. It said that:
- Mr M must have known that there were records connecting him to Address C, such 
as the mortgage. He should therefore have used this address when making an 
application for a credit card.
- Mr M was likely concealing the fact that he had a mortgage on Address C because 
he thought that, if he did so, his application for a credit card would be looked upon 
more favourably.
Because Sainsburys Bank disagreed with the Adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question I must consider here is whether Sainsburys Bank acted fairly and reasonably 
in loading a marker with Cifas. Its a member of Cifas which means its agreed to abide by 
the National Fraud Database Principles. Those principles set a high standard that a firm 
must meet if it wants to load adverse information against a customers name. 
It says that in on order to do so: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted  [and]  The evidence must be clear, 
relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently report the conduct of 
the subject to the police.
The onus is on Sainsburys Bank to demonstrate that this standard has been met. Ive 
considered the evidence provided by both sides carefully and Im not persuaded that it has 
done so here. 
I accept that it was concerned to discover apparent discrepancies between the information 
Mr M provided on his application and the information it found when conducting its own 
searches. However, Mr M has provided a logical and coherent explanation as to how these 
discrepancies arose.
While Sainsburys Bank doesnt have to prove beyond all reasonable doubt that Mr M 
committed fraud by submitting his credit card application the way he did, the Cifas standards 
require that it has more than mere suspicion. In the circumstances of this case, it hasnt met 
the threshold required to load a fraud marker.
 
Ive also considered its decision to close Mr Ms account. Ive reviewed the terms and 
conditions of the account. Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of the Adjudicator 
that the prescribed circumstances in which its free to close a customer account without 
notice arent applicable in Mr Ms case. 
It follows that it acted unfairly when it closed his account without giving notice. Hes told us 
he suffered some distress and inconvenience as a result of its decision to do so. The 
Adjudicator recommended that Sainsburys Bank pay him £300 in recognition of that and Im 
satisfied thats a fair sum.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. If Mr M accepts my decision, 
Sainsbury's Bank Plc needs to:
- Remove the Cifas marker without delay; and
- Pay Mr M £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused by closing 
his account without notice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 James Kimmitt
Ombudsman