DRN-1033055
 
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the time taken by AIG Life Limited to consider his claim for 
terminal illness benefit under his term assurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P holds a term assurance policy with AIG. The policy offers advance payment of the sum 
assured if he's diagnosed with a terminal illness before the policy ends. The policy benefit 
increases on each policy anniversary and is due to run until July 2021. 
Mr P was sadly diagnosed with advanced stomach cancer in March 2019. He was advised 
the cancer was incurable and that his prognosis was likely to be a year or less. He submitted 
a claim to AIG. 
AIG considered the claim but said it was too early to reach a conclusion. It explained it 
needed to understand Mr P's response to the various treatment options that were being tried 
before deciding if he met the policy definition. 
Mr P complained that AIG were causing unnecessary delays in considering his claim and so 
referred the matter to our service. 
After the complaint had been referred to our service, AIG reviewed its claims handling and 
accepted it could've been more proactive in communicating with Mr P and explaining what 
information was still outstanding. It offered him £500 compensation for the distress it had 
caused. 
Our investigator considered the complaint, but he didn't uphold it. While he acknowledged 
that Mr P was very seriously ill and his prognosis was poor, he didn't think AIG had acted 
unreasonably by asking for more medical information before it agreed to pay the claim. 
The investigator explained that the policy definition required both the treating consultant and 
AIG's consultant medical officer ('CMO') to be satisfied that life expectancy was no more 
than twelve months. While the treating consultant had said Mr P's life expectancy was a year 
or less, two CMOs had explained why they felt the prognosis may be better than twelve 
months depending on his response to chemotherapy and surgery. In the circumstances the 
investigator didn't feel AIG had acted unreasonably by asking for more medical evidence 
before admitting the claim. He acknowledged that AIG's communication with Mr P hadn't 
been good enough. It hadn't kept him sufficiently updated and it hadn't explained what it was 
doing to further investigate the claim. But he felt the £500 compensation AIG had offered 
was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman's final decision. He felt his treating consultant 
had been clear that his prognosis met the policy definition. He felt AIG's CMOs had grossly 
underestimated the severity of his cancer. He also felt he was being penalised for seeking 
treatment to alleviate his symptoms, even though it wouldn't change his diagnosis or 
prognosis. As there's been no agreement the case has been passed to me to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mr P, which is made worse given his current state of health. I want to assure him that I didnt 
take this decision lightly. I understand this is an incredibly difficult time for him and his family. 
While I dont want to add to his distress, I cant say AIG has treated him unfairly. Ill explain 
why. 
assessment of the claim
The policy sets out that for a terminal illness claim to be paid, the following definition must be 
met in full: 
Terminal illness
An advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness where, in the opinion of an attending 
consultant and our Consultant Medical Officer, life expectancy is no more than 12 months
I should explain that in considering this complaint its not for me to reach a medical opinion 
on whether Mr P met the above definition. Instead, I have to consider whether AIG assessed 
the claim fairly and reasonably in light of the medical evidence and opinions it was presented 
with. Having carefully considered all the available evidence, Im satisfied that it did. 
While Mr Ps treating consultant, who Ill call Professor H, has stated on more than occasion 
that his life expectancy is less than a year, for the claim to be paid the CMO must also be in 
agreement.  So I dont think it was unreasonable for AIG to seek the opinion of its CMO 
before admitting the claim. 
The CMOs opinion was promptly sought after the specialists report was received. The CMO 
accepted that Mr P had been diagnosed with an incurable disease, which would significantly 
reduce his life expectancy. But he noted Mr P had just started a fourth cycle of 
chemotherapy and was due to undergo a scan afterwards to assess how effective it had 
been. He advised that if Mr P responded well to chemotherapy his life expectancy could be 
improved by months. As the policy is only designed to provide benefit in the event Mr Ps life 
expectancy was shown to be no more than 12 months, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
AIG to await the scan results before it accepted the claim. 
Unfortunately the scan didnt take place when it was expected to, and so AIG sought the 
opinion of a second CMO to help it decide if the claim should be admitted. As thered been 
no new evidence to demonstrate that Mr P definitely met the policy definition, I think it was 
fair and reasonable for AIG to seek a further opinion on whether the claim could reasonably 
be paid at this stage. 
The second CMO was in agreement that Mr Ps prognosis could only be reasonably 
assessed once his response to treatment was known. The CMO also noted that Mr Ps life 
expectancy would likely be improved if he was referred for surgery. I note in a later report 
Professor H also commented that surgery is unlikely to be curative, although it may help 
improve his survival and there is evidence that operating improves the chance of 
survival. In view of the CMO's opinion and the evidence from Professor H I think it was 
again fair and reasonable for AIG to postpone any claims decision until Mr P had undergone surgery, as it was unclear if he met the policy definition until the results of the surgery were 
known. 
While I appreciate that Professor H stated on more than one occasion that Mr Ps life 
expectancy was no more than 12 months, his responses to AIG werent detailed and didnt 
address the CMOs questions about how treatment may impact life expectancy. As the policy 
definition required the agreement of both the treating specialist and CMO, I cant say AIG 
was unreasonable in postponing its claims decision until the CMOs questions had been 
addressed. 
I feel its also important to note that while Mr Ps claim has been assessed the value of his 
policy has actually increased. I think this further demonstrates that there hasnt been any 
cynical attempt by AIG to delay the payment of a claim, because if a claim was soon to be 
accepted Mr P would now receive a higher benefit than he would have if the claim had been 
accepted at an earlier date. 
I understand that since the complaint has been with our service more medical evidence has 
been received that has led AIG to decline the claim. This is outside the scope of this 
complaint, so I havent considered it. But if Mr P is unhappy with the outcome of the claim he 
can raise his concerns with AIG and if necessary could refer a new complaint to our service. 
Mr P should also be aware that even if his claim doesnt meet the policy definition at this 
stage, the policy is due to run until July 2021, so if theres any change to his health he can 
submit a new claim to AIG for consideration. 
compensation for delays
AIG has accepted that it failed to provide Mr P with the level of service he deserved. While 
Im satisfied it was proactive in assessing the claim and requesting the relevant information 
from Professor H, it didnt keep Mr P updated on what was happening with his claim and it 
was largely left to him to chase AIG for updates. 
I can imagine it must be very stressful for any consumer seeking to make a claim of this 
kind.  But I consider that any customer service failing wouldve been more acutely felt given 
Mr Ps state of health and how it important it was to him and his family that his claim was 
paid. So I agree that AIGs failure to keep him regularly updated would have caused him a 
significant degree of trouble and upset. But I consider that AIGs offer of £500 compensation 
fairly reflects the impact on Mr P, and is broadly in line with the type of award I would have 
made had AIG not made any offer. So I wont be asking AIG to pay anything more. 
In summary, while I have every sympathy for Mr Ps situation, I cant say that AIG unfairly 
delayed the assessment of his claim. AIG could have communicated with him better than it 
did, but its now offered a reasonable sum of compensation to address this failing. I 
understand that Mr P has recently accepted this sum.  
 
 
Putting things right
As AIG has made a suitable offer of compensation for it's claim handling, I'm not asking it to 
do anything more to put the matter right. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I'm not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2019.
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman