DRN-4214793
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about poor customer service by more 2 life Ltd trading as Standard 
Life Home Finance (referred to here as Standard Life) during an application for an lifetime 
equity release mortgage.
To settle the complaint, Mrs M wanted Standard Life to apologise, compensate her for 
distress and inconvenience, reimburse her legal costs and cover the difference in any 
interest rate over 3.64% she is offered by any other lifetime mortgage company.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs M being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In April 2022 Mrs M applied for a lifetime mortgage with Standard Life, through her own 
independent mortgage broker. She wanted to borrow £1.175m, a figure that was based on 
an estimated property value of £3.2m. 
As part of the application process Standard Life instructed an independent surveyor to 
inspect the property, and a valuation was carried out on 26 April 2022. The surveyor thought 
the property should be valued at £2.1m. The solicitors acting for Standard Life identified an 
issue in the lease with an escalating ground rent. Because Mrs M was also the freeholder, 
this was resolved by a Deed of Variation.
On 13 July 2022 a mortgage offer was issued for a loan of £1.175m. The offer was valid for 
42 days from that date. This showed the valuation of £2.1m. However, this was an error, 
because the maximum loan-to-value (LTV) Standard Life would allow was 36.75% for this 
application, based on Mrs Ms age and the property valuation. This would only provide for a 
maximum loan of £771,750. 
Standard Lifes records show that on 15 July 2022 there is a note that the broker queried the 
offer, saying it was incorrect. The broker later clarified that he assumed the valuation of 
£2.1m was a typing error. A new Key Facts Illustration (KFI) was issued on 15 July 2022 for 
a loan of £771,750, based on the valuation of £2.1m.
The valuation was challenged by the broker, because this was the first time he or Mrs M had 
been aware of it. Standard Life referred back to the surveyor, who was able to justify his 
valuation of the property.  The broker provided what he said were comparables, but these 
were properties sold within the previous ten years. 
On 19 July 2022 Standard Life explained to the broker that it would need comparables from 
the last six months, for a similar type of property of a similar age and size and within 3km of 
the property, but preferably within 800m. If these could be provided, Standard Life said it 
would forward them to the valuer to see if there was any change to the valuation.
On 29 July 2022 and 12 August 2022 Standard Life chased the broker for an update. A 
response was received on 12 August 2022, but this was a formal complaint, rather than the 
broker providing the information Standard Life needed in order to ask the surveyor to revisit 
the valuation. 
The complaint was acknowledged by Standard Life on 17 August 2022, and a final response 
letter was issued on 21 September 2022. Standard Life acknowledged that there had been 
some legal issues relating to the required Deed of Variation which had resulted in some 
delay. As a result of this the solicitors had closed the case on 11 June 2022. However, once 
the legal issues were resolved, the mortgage offer was issued. 
Standard Life didnt agree that the surveyor had acted incorrectly or that the valuation  
which was for the purposes of an equity release mortgage, rather than an estate agents 
valuation for sale  was inaccurate. 
Because of delays caused by the solicitors in relation to the legal issues. Standard Life 
offered an ex gratia goodwill payment of £150 for this.
Dissatisfied with Standard Lifes response, Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened and having done so, he thought the complaint 
should be upheld.
He explained that Standard Life should have told Mrs M about the valuation. Because it 
didnt do so, Mrs M wasnt aware until the offer was issued that the property had been 
valued at £2.1m until the mortgage offer was issued. The investigator was satisfied that 
there had been no error in relation to the valuation. 
The investigator noted that the offer issued on 13 July 2022 was made in error, and didnt 
think Standard Life should be held to this.  However, he thought that Standard Life should 
issue a revised offer based on the interest rate, valuation and loan amount detailed in the 
KFI issued on 15 July 2022. He thought that Standard Life should give Mrs M 42 days to 
accept this.
In addition, the investigator thought Standard Life should increase its offer of compensation 
to a total of £300. Standard Life agreed to pay compensation, but couldnt agree to issue 
another mortgage offer based on the 15 July 2022 KFI. It said that the interest rate was no 
longer available, and a new offer would be at the prevailing rate, in addition to which a new 
valuation would be required. 
In any event, Mrs Ms broker had failed to provide the comparables needed to revisit the 
valuation. As a result, no new offer had been issued and the application had been closed.
However, in an attempt to settle the complaint, Standard Life offered total compensation of 
£500.
Mrs M didnt accept this. Shes repeated the points previously made about not knowing 
about the valuation until July 2022, but also said that it wasnt until the end of August/early 
September 2022 that these issues came to light, and that over the six-month period since 
the valuation nobody had mentioned that the property had been downvalued. Mrs M also 
said that neither she nor her broker received a second offer or illustration.Mrs M says that she wasnt able to source another product, because by August 2022 interest 
rates had increased. Mrs M believes that the product shed applied for from Standard Life 
was so heavily oversubscribed that Standard Life could not cope and were unable to 
process things efficiently.
Provisional decision of 27 June 2023
I issued a provisional decision in which I reached the following findings.
First of all, Ive noted the timeline Mrs M has given in her response to the 
investigator. Although she said she wasnt aware of the valuation until July 2022, she 
later says this was late August/early September 2022, and that it was six months 
after the valuation (which had been done on 26 April 2022).
The valuation should have been available on the portal for the broker to see a week 
after it had been done  so by 3 May 2022 (2 May was a Bank Holiday). The 
mortgage offer showing the £2.1m valuation was issued on 13 July, which is 10 
weeks after 3 May. So it is incorrect to say there had been a six-month delay before 
Mrs M knew about the valuation.
I agree that if Mrs M had known about the valuation on 3 May 2022 rather than 15 
July 2022, her broker could have looked for another product. It was during this period 
that the legal work relating to the Deed of Variation was being done, so that work 
would have been necessary with any other lender too.
I am satisfied that the valuation was carried out by a Member of the Royal Institution 
of Chartered Surveyors. Standard Life was entitled to rely on his expert opinion. I am 
also satisfied that Standard Life was willing to accept a challenge to the valuation. 
However, the comparables provided by the broker werent acceptable. 
Rather than provide acceptable comparables so that Standard Life could refer these 
to the surveyor, instead the broker (presumably on Mrs Ms instructions) made a 
complaint. As a result, the broker didnt progress the appeal against the valuation, 
and so the application was closed as abandoned. Im not persuaded this is the fault 
of Standard Life, which was, I find, prepared to reconsider the valuation if the broker 
had provided the information Standard Life had been asking for since 19 July 2022. 
Im also not persuaded that Standard Life should issue a new mortgage offer based 
on the KFI dated 15 July 2022. Im satisfied that the rate is no longer available, and 
given that Mrs M wanted to clear her existing mortgage of more than £850,000, the 
amount Standard Life was prepared to lend on its own valuation wouldnt have been 
sufficient for this purpose in any event.
Mrs Ms broker proceeded on the basis of challenging the valuation, rather than (it 
appears) seeing if an alternative product could be sourced. But when asked for 
further information to support the challenge, the broker didnt provide this. It was for 
this reason that the application didnt proceed any further. In the circumstances, I 
cant find any basis on which it would be fair or reasonable to direct Standard Life to 
issue a new mortgage offer based on the 15 July 2022 KFI.
Standard Life has accepted that there were delays, and offered £500 for this, which I 
think is fair, reasonable and proportionate in all the circumstances. Im not intending 
to order any additional redress.Both Mrs M and Standard Life have responded to confirm they accept my provisional 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed my provisional decision, and as both parties have accepted the outcome, I can 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached.
Putting things right
I direct more 2 life Ltd trading as Standard Life Home Finance to pay Mrs M £500 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct 
more 2 life Ltd trading as Standard Life Home Finance to settle the complaint as set out 
above. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman