DRN-1581692
 
The complaint
Miss H (through her representative) complains about misleading information from Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) when her junior ISA (JISA) was opened. 
What happened
Miss H's parents opened a JISA for her in 2013. Miss H says they were told they could 
control the account on her behalf until she reached age 21. Miss H's parents didn't want her 
to know about the account until then.
But the account matured when Miss H reached 18. She says her parents wouldn't have 
opened the account if they'd known this, or they would've put more money into it before she 
reached 18.
Halifax didn't uphold Miss H's complaint. It said the maturity date of age 18 was one of the 
terms of the account, and there was no evidence to show Miss H's parents had been told 
any different. 
Halifax accepted Miss H's father had been given some incorrect information when he'd 
called to raise his complaint and it paid £35 in connection with this and to cover his call 
costs. But it didn't consider it had done anything else wrong.
Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. He concluded the 
maturity date of 18 was an inherent feature of the account, and that this information was 
likely to have been provided to Miss H's parents when the account was opened. 
Miss H (through her representative) didn't agree with the investigator's conclusions, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities - that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Miss H's account was opened by her parents in 2013. She says they were told they would 
be contacted before she reached age 18, so that they could move the money to another 
account of their choice until she reached age 21. Miss H also says her parents weren't given 
any information about the account, and that they haven't been sent anything from Halifax 
while the account was open. They had to attend a Halifax branch to get an account balance 
and confirmation of payments in.  
The difficulty I have is that I can't be sure what was discussed between Miss H's parents and 
Halifax when the account was opened. I'm also mindful that Halifax didn't give her parents 
any advice about the account. That means it had to give them enough information about the 
account so that they could make an informed choice about opening it.
The type of account Miss H's parents opened was only available to under eighteens. That 
was a requirement of Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs, rather than Halifax. 
Halifax has also provided details of its administration procedures for this type of account. 
These show that a parent or guardian can be the registered contact for the account, until the 
child reaches eighteen. Its also possible for the child to be the registered contact after the 
age of sixteen. 
But irrespective of whether a parent or guardian or the child is the registered contact, the 
account belongs to the child. And Halifaxs procedures show that it writes to the child before 
they reach eighteen, to tell them what will happen once the account matures. 
With these points in mind, on balance I think it's unlikely Halifax would've told Miss H's 
parents they could keep control over the account until Miss H reached age 21, or that it 
would write to them (rather than Miss H) when the account was about the mature.
So without anything else to support what Miss H has told me, I don't think I can fairly and 
reasonably say that Halifax gave her parents misleading information about the account.
Miss H says her parents didnt receive any information from Halifax while the account was 
open. But I understand theyd asked for annual statements not to be sent, so I think this may 
explain why they had limited contact from Halifax.
From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded to uphold the complaint so I won't be asking Halifax 
to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman