DRN-3843676
The complaint
Mr P complains about the contact received from Town & Country Legal Services LLP (T&C) 
in relation to a debt it was seeking to collect. 
What happened
Mr P had an account with another business (E) that instructed T&C to contact him to discuss 
repayment in 2019. On 13 September 2022 T&C spoke with Mr P and he explained a debt 
advice service was acting on his behalf. Mr P also complained that the decision to approve 
his loan was irresponsible. On the same day, T&C received notice from Mr Ps debt advisors 
that said he was party to breathing space from his debts at that time. 
As T&C has been acting as a collections agent and wasnt party to Mr Ps original application 
it referred his complaint to E to deal with. On 11 October 2022 E advised T&C that Mr Ps 
complaint about irresponsible lending hadnt been upheld. T&C says it sent Mr P an email 
and text message requesting contact as it wanted to discuss the outcome of his complaint. 
Mr P called T&C the next day and was advised he was contacted in error. T&C issued a final 
response on 13 October 2022 and apologised for contacting Mr P and any upset caused. 
T&C didnt offer any compensation or provide a detailed explanation as to why contact had 
been made during the breathing space period. 
A short time later, T&C received notice from E that it had decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint 
and the account was returned. 
Mr P referred his complaint to us and explained T&C hadnt complied with a Data Subject 
Access Request (DSAR) hed raised. An investigator looked at what had happened. They 
didnt ask T&C to do anything else and thought it had dealt with Mr Ps complaint fairly. Mr P 
asked to appeal and said T&Cs actions had caused serious mental health problems and 
impacted him severely. Mr P also said he didnt think T&C had provided a reasonable 
explanation for the contact hed received and that he felt harassed.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps told us he didnt want T&C to complaint to E on his behalf. But when Mr P spoke with 
T&C in September 2022 he asked to make an irresponsible lending complaint. As T&C didnt 
lend to Mr P and was only ever instructed to collect the outstanding balance, it wasnt 
responsible for the decision to lend. In line with the rules T&C and E operate under, the 
complaint was referred to the original lender to deal with. I understand Mr P wanted to make 
his own complaint, but I havent been persuaded T&Cs decision to refer his case to E was 
unfair in the circumstances. 
Mr P has also raised concerns about the way T&C completed a DSAR. T&C says it followed 
the correct process and forwarded its submissions to E to include with its DSAR response. 
Ive looked at the process T&C follows and Im satisfied it acted in line with them. Given 
T&Cs role as debt collector, Im satisfied it was reasonable for it to provide its submissions 
to E to include with its response. I havent found any evidence the way T&C dealt with Mr Ps 
DSAR was unreasonable. 
I can see Mr P is most concerned at the contact he received from T&C while subject to 
Breathing Space as part of the governments Debt Respite Scheme. Mr Ps explained that 
being contacted by T&C during the breathing space period caused a lot of distress and 
seriously impacted his mental health. Mr Ps explained that he doesnt think it was fair for 
T&C to have contacted him whilst the breathing space was in place. But in its file submission 
to this service, L&Cs told us the guidance for breathing space says it can contact customers 
in certain situations, even when a breathing space arrangement is in place. 
Ive looked at the guidance given to businesses. It can be viewed at the following website: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/debt-respite-scheme-breathing-space-
guidance/debt-respite-scheme-breathing-space-guidance-for-creditors#what-to-do-during-a-
breathing-space Section 3.9 says business can contact customers during the breathing 
space period to respond to a query or complaint made by a customer. So whilst I agree no 
collections activity was allowed during the breathing space period, the guidance did allow 
T&C to contact Mr P about his complaint. 
T&C has provided a copy of its email and text message. I can see they ask Mr P to get in 
contact about his case. But there was no request for payment or any details about the 
outstanding debt. Im satisfied that T&C was contacting Mr P about the complaint hed made 
rather than chasing him for payment. And that sort of contact is permitted under the 
breathing space guidance set out in the link above. 
I know Mr P wanted a more detailed explanation. I hope the above provides the details he 
wanted. From an impartial point of view, I dont think T&C acted unfairly by contacting Mr P, 
although I understand how concerned he was and how the situation made him feel. 
I note T&C apologised for contacting Mr P and any distress that was caused. Having 
considered everything Mr Ps told us and the circumstances of his complaint, I havent been 
persuaded T&C acted unfairly. I know my decision is likely to disappoint Mr P but as I 
havent found T&C acted unfairly Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman