DRN-3946393
The complaint
Mr A and Miss M complain about their home emergency policy with UK Insurance Limited, 
trading as Churchill Home Insurance (UKI). 
UKI are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions 
of their appointed agents. As UKI have accepted they are accountable for the actions of their 
agents, in my decision, any reference to UKI includes the actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr A, Miss M and UKI, and has been 
ongoing for some time. In my decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching 
the outcome that I have.
Mr A and Miss M had a home emergency insurance policy with UKI. They made a claim 
against their policy. UKI were unable to source some of the parts needed, appointments 
were missed and Mr A and Miss M were left without hot water for some time. As UKI were 
unable to source the parts needed, Mr A and Miss M arranged a repair through a third party. 
UKI declined to reimburse Mr A and Miss M. After they complained UKI offered £65 as 
compensation for the service provided. Mr A and Miss M remained unhappy and referred 
their complaint to our Service for an independent review. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and UKI reimburse Mr A and 
Miss M. As UKI didnt accept, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Have UKI fairly and reasonably considered this claim  inline with the policy terms and have 
UKI treated Mr A and Miss M fairly overall?
As UKI were unable to source the parts needed, Mr A and Miss M arranged a repair through 
a third-party company (B2) who serviced/maintained boilers in their area and had a suitable 
part in stock for the repair.
UKI have declined reimbursing Mr A and Mrs M as they say the replacement part wasnt an 
exact match  and therefore they wouldnt be able to provide the necessary guarantees or 
warranty. UKI have referred to the following term:
Conditions and losses not covered:
We won't pay for
replacing any system or appliance if spare parts can't be found after a 
thorough search
Whilst this may be inline with the policy terms, I dont consider it to be a fair or reasonable 
application of the terms. 
They also told our Service:
Parts available online would be refurbished or used and we do not recommend 
fitting parts from disreputable sources as this can cause further damage and would 
void any warranty the customer would otherwise be eligible for.
Based on reviews on all the main trade websites, theres nothing at all to support that B2 are 
disreputable and Mr A and Miss M have since confirmed that their system has been working 
perfectly since the repair.
UKI have been selective in choosing which parts of the terms to quote. For example, on 
page 32 of the terms, it is stated:
The spare or replacement parts we use: 
 may not be from the original manufacturer 
 may not be a like-for-like replacement.
Whilst I accept that the replacement part is not an exact match  the main difference being 
the lower discharge temperature, Im more persuaded by the testimony provided from B2 
whove stated that the lower discharge temperature of 92 degrees Celsius instead of the 
previous 95 degrees Celsius potentially makes it safer. 
I would understand the logic of the argument put forward by UKI if the discharge temperature 
on the new part had been raised  but it wasnt. In addition, UKI arent being asked to 
provide a guarantee or warranty for the repairs. On balance, theres nothing to support that 
the risk to UKI has increased because of the part fitted.
Ultimately, Mr A and Miss M took out this policy in good faith to help protect them should a 
situation arise where they needed to make a claim. Its not the fault of UKI - nor Mr A and 
Miss M that the part needed for the repair was unavailable within UKIs repair network. But 
that shouldnt mean that Mr A and Miss M lose out  given they arranged a reasonable 
alternative repair. 
Ive seen no persuasive supporting evidence that Mr A and Miss M have prejudiced UKIs 
position with the course of action theyve taken here. Therefore it follows that its unfair and 
unreasonable of UKI to refuse to reimburse Mr A and Miss M for their costs. 
Ive also noted that in an email dated 15 November 2022 to our Service, Mr A told us that in 
phone calls with UKI on 1 and 3 September 2022, he was told that hed be reimbursed (up to 
£500) should UKI be unable to complete a repair. Whilst call recordings would potentially 
support Mr A and Miss Ms position, UKI havent provided any. But, regardless of whether or 
not this was said - this doesnt change the finding Ive reached above. UKI previously made an offer of £65 in recognition of the service theyd provided and various 
issues with the initial appointments. I find this (alongside my direction to reimburse Mr A and 
Miss M for the repair) to be a fair, reasonable and proportionate resolution to this complaint.
Putting things right
UK Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill Home Insurance now need to:
pay Mr A and Miss M the cost of the third party repair (£386.40); and 
pay Mr A and Miss M interest, at a rate of 8% simple per annum. This should be 
calculated from the date they paid the third party repairer (subject to reasonable 
proof) until the date settlement is made. This is to compensate Mr A and Miss M for 
being out of pocket.
For completeness, UK Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill Home Insurance should also 
arrange payment of the £65 offer they made - if theyve not already done so. The evidence 
on file suggests it may have already been paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. UK Insurance Limited, trading as Churchill 
Home Insurance should now follow my direction, as set out under the heading Putting things 
right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman