DRN-2800994
The complaint
Mr A complained that Buffa Loans Ltd acted irresponsibly when it gave him unaffordable 
loans.
What happened
Mr A took out three loans as follows:
Loan 
No:Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidMonthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 18/11/2019 31/01/2020 3 £500.00 £223.00
2 14/02/2020 30/04/2020 3 £500.00 £224.16
3 13/07/2020 Outstanding 6 £500.00 £148.39
Mr A said that he had needed to take extra loans to cover the cost of his loans from Buffa 
and this resulted in him having a five figure overdraft. 
When he complained to Buffa it didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It said its 
affordability and creditworthiness checks showed that all the loans were comfortably 
affordable for Mr A. So Mr A brought his complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr A and Buffa told us about these loans. 
Overall, our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about 
Mr As circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Buffa to ask Mr A for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Buffa had any information which shouldve prompted it to start 
verifying what Mr A had said in support of his loan applications.
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr A had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Buffa shouldve alerted Buffa 
to think he was having money problems. So he didnt uphold Mr As complaint. 
Mr A disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. Mr A mainly said that he believed the third loan was irresponsible lending. He 
thought if Buffa saw his credit file showing a maxed out overdraft, multiple short term loans 
and maxed out credit cards it would see it was irresponsible to lend.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Buffa provided Mr A with high-interest loans intended for short-term use so it needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Buffa was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr A before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Theres no set list 
of checks that are proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to 
be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. Ive carefully 
considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and what this all means 
for Mr As complaint. 
Loans 1 and 2
Ive come to the same view as our adjudicator about loans 1 and 2. Ive looked at the 
information Buffa recorded for Mr A, including income and expenditure details from the time 
and the credit checks it carried out. I agree that there isnt enough overall to say Buffa 
shouldnt have provided these loans. And as Mr A hasnt raised any objection to the 
adjudicators recommendation in relation to the first two loans, I dont think that I need to say 
more about them. 
Loan 3
Ive taken into account that this was Mr As third loan application and he hadnt had any 
significant breaks in between loans. He was also arranging to pay this loan back over a 
longer period  this had the effect of reducing the amount of his monthly repayments. On the 
other hand, he wasnt increasing the amount of his borrowing and hed made all his 
repayments on loans 1 and 2 on time. So I dont think Buffa had any strong reason to think 
at that stage Mr A was showing any particular signs of financial difficulty.
Before lending to Mr A, Buffa asked Mr A for information about his financial situation. 
The figures hed declared and the information Buffa collected appear to support Buffas 
lending decision. Mr A had declared take home pay of £3,900 and outgoings of around 
£900.This included an amount of £450 Mr A had said he was paying towards his other credit 
commitments  leaving him with disposable income of £3000. 
Buffa also carried out credit checks before agreeing to lend. The credit report it obtained 
shows that Mr A had 13 active credit accounts at the time of application  this was one more 
than when hed applied for loan 2. There were also 16 settled accounts on his credit file within the last 12 months, no defaults showing and no history of any county court 
judgements or bankruptcy.
Buffa felt its credit checks indicated that Mr A was still utilising finance but settling within 
contractual terms and that there was nothing in the way he conducted his credit accounts to 
suggest stress on his finances or that he was struggling with the repayments. 
I think the information Buffa had gathered suggested Mr A had ample disposable income to 
be able to pay the monthly repayments for loan 3. But Buffa also needed to be satisfied that 
the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr A and Ive thought carefully about the conclusions 
Buffa drew from the information it had gathered  and in particular, what it deduced from its 
credit checks on Mr A.
Buffa could see that Mr A appeared to take out payday loans and use his credit cards for 
cash advances  both very expensive ways to borrow money. And I think Mr As use of 
credit looked to be potentially at odds with what Buffa might reasonably have expected to 
see for someone who appeared to have such a high disposable income. 
But I think its fair to say that the information Buffa gathered about the way Mr A managed 
his credit did appear to show that overall Mr A was managing his money well and making 
use of credit without showing any evident signs of financial difficulty. There could have been 
any number of reasons why Mr A mightve needed quick access to extra funds  despite his 
substantial salary. And I think that Buffa gave Mr A fair opportunity to provide relevant 
information about his spending and it was entitled, at this early stage in their relationship, to 
rely on the information he provided. 
On balance, I dont think it was unreasonable for Buffa to lend  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had gathered, to suggest Mr A wouldnt be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way. I dont think proportionate checks in these 
circumstances wouldve required Buffa to probe any more deeply into Mr As finances or ask 
Mr A to prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he 
had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances.
In other words, I wouldnt reasonably expect Buffa to have asked to see the bank statements 
that Mr A has sent me. So although these show information that suggests Buffa possibly 
didnt have a proper understanding of Mr As actual financial situation at the time, if this 
wasnt information that Mr A told Buffa about, then Buffa couldnt have known about it and 
I cant fairly say that Buffa shouldve known about it. 
Its worth remembering that a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, 
or some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So, this may explain any 
differences between what Buffa saw and what Mr A feels his actual position was at the time.
Despite what Mr  A has told me about his actual financial situation, I dont think there was 
anything in the information that Buffa had recorded for Mr A, or anything else that it 
shouldve been aware of, which wouldve made Buffa think this loan wasnt sustainably 
affordable for Mr A when he took it out.  So thats why Im not upholding Mr As complaint 
about loan 3.
Im very sorry that Mr A found repaying this loan difficult  but this seems to have become a 
problem for him only when Mr A lost his job. 
I do accept that in reality Mr As financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the 
information he provided or the other information Buffa obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont 
think that Buffa did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr A. 
I appreciate that this outcome is going to disappoint Mr A but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman