DRN-2665534
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of a commercial and 
residential landlords insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F made a claim after their rental property suffered fire damage in December 
2019. AXA accepted liability. 
Initially there was a disagreement between the parties about the strip out works, though this 
was then resolved. Mr and Mrs F then wanted an independent surveyor. AXA didnt agree to 
this initially, but eventually did. The independent surveyor was appointed shortly before the 
strip out works took place. 
A joint site visit took place in April 2020 with the independent surveyor and AXAs loss 
adjusters surveyor. A few days later, AXA agreed to the prepared scope of works, which 
then went out to tender. In early May 2020, AXA received the tender report and authorised 
this. The repairs started on 13 May 2020 and were completed on 3 July 2020. 
Mr and Mrs F complained to AXA about its handling of the claim. They thought AXAs initial 
refusal to cover the cost of an independent surveyor caused unnecessary delays. They also 
said AXA didnt provide them with details on how to make a claim for alternative 
accommodation for their tenant. 
AXA said it didnt think an independent surveyor had been needed, and only agreed to this in 
order to progress the claim. Though it accepted that it hadnt communicated as well as it 
shouldve, and so it offered Mr and Mrs F £350 compensation for this. Unhappy with AXAs 
response, Mr and Mrs F brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He agreed with AXA that a 
surveyor hadnt been necessary. He didnt think AXA had caused any avoidable delays, but 
he did think its communication couldve been better. The investigator thought the 
compensation AXA had offered was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only provided a short summary above of what happened as the investigator included a 
lot of detail about this when he issued his informal findings. 
Mr and Mrs F wanted AXA to cover the cost of an independent surveyor to manage a scope 
of works, the tender process, and oversee the repairs. They say this was within their policy 
and they shouldnt have had to request this.
The policy does allow for the cost of surveyor fees, though it says this is for fees necessarily 
incurred with AXAs written consent. And so as our investigator has explained, Mr and Mrs F 
werent automatically entitled to an independent surveyor. First, a surveyors fees would 
need to be considered necessary by AXA, and then AXA would need to give its consent.
AXA agreed for a surveyor to be appointed to produce a schedule of works, but Mr and Mrs 
F also wanted that surveyor to manage the tender process and project manage the repairs. 
AXA didnt think this was necessary as it thought it would overcomplicate matters and cause 
unnecessary delays. 
Taking into account the damage to the property, and the length of time needed for the 
repairs, Im minded to agree with AXA here. Also, there was a loss adjuster acting on AXAs 
behalf and a loss assessor acting on Mr and Mrs Fs behalf - I think between those parties 
they couldve arranged the quotes and overseen the repairs without the need for a surveyor.
The only reason AXA eventually agreed to cover the cost of an independent surveyor for the 
tender process and to project manage the repairs was because Mr and Mrs Fs 
representative didnt want the claim to progress without one. That was up to AXA, but I dont 
think they needed to cover the cost. And so I dont find them at fault for any delays to the 
claim as a result of the time taken to resolve this matter. Though I also dont think this did 
cause any particular delays, since the independent surveyor was appointed before the strip 
out works took place in any event. 
Mr and Mrs F have also raised concerns about the lack of information they were given by 
AXA in relation to making a claim for alternative accommodation for their tenant. 
The policy says that AXA will pay the costs of reasonable alternative accommodation for 
tenants while the property cant be lived in. 
At the end of December 2019, AXAs loss adjuster offered to arrange alternative 
accommodation for the tenant, but this wasnt needed as the tenant was staying with family 
members. 
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs Fs representative asked AXAs loss adjuster about the loss of 
rent cover, and the loss adjuster confirmed the policy didnt include this. Mr and Mrs Fs 
representative then contacted AXAs loss adjuster in February 2020 to make enquiries about 
an alternative accommodation claim, but by that point Mr and Mrs F no longer had a tenant 
as their former tenant had signed a new tenancy agreement elsewhere. 
As Mr and Mrs F didnt incur any alternative accommodation costs for their former tenant, 
that means that AXA isnt required to pay this aspect of their claim. As above, the policy 
doesnt cover loss of rent.
Mr and Mrs F think that AXAs loss adjuster deliberately didnt tell them that theyd need to 
have paid their tenants alternative accommodation in order to make a successful claim, and 
that this was because the loss adjuster wanted to save money. I havent seen any evidence 
to support that. Also, Mr and Mrs F had a representative acting on their behalf who was an 
insurance professional  he was in contact with AXAs loss adjuster shortly after the incident, 
and couldve asked about the practicalities of Mr and Mrs F making an alternative 
accommodation claim if he didnt understand how this worked.Though I do think AXAs loss adjuster couldve been clearer in their responses to Mr and 
Mrs Fs representative about the alternative accommodation claim from February 2020, and I 
think one of their emails in particular was badly worded. 
In terms of delays, Mr and Mrs Fs representative wanted AXAs loss adjuster to provide a 
cost breakdown of their contractors quote for the strip out works. AXAs loss adjuster 
refused to provide this information as it said it was commercially sensitive. This caused 
delays.
As our investigator has explained, insurers will often benefit from agreed rates with 
contractors that are below the market price. Insurers dont need to provide details of that 
information to consumers. Here, AXA provided Mr and Mrs F with the scope of works (which 
Mr and Mrs F didnt dispute) and the final cost of this, which I think was sufficient. 
The policy allows AXA to have control of the settlement of any claim. AXA was willing to 
arrange for its contractor to do the work, but Mr and Mrs F wanted to appoint their own 
contractor. AXA agreed to this, but Im satisfied it didnt need to pay more than the quote it 
had received from its own contractor. Though in the end, Mr and Mrs Fs contractor agreed 
to match that quote anyway. 
There were some delays in arranging a joint site visit with the two parties surveyors. It 
seems this couldve gone ahead in March 2020, but Mr and Mrs Fs representative didnt 
want to move the meeting back by an hour in order for this to take place. Then later AXAs 
surveyor was self-isolating due to Covid-19. AXAs loss adjuster therefore arranged for a 
different surveyor to visit the property, which was reasonable.
AXA did make some errors. It didnt always communicate with its loss adjuster, which 
caused confusion for Mr and Mrs F. I also understand that it didnt always return Mr and Mrs 
Fs calls and emails, which added to their frustration. Though I think a lot of the confusion 
was around the fact that both AXA and Mr and Mrs F had representatives acting on their 
behalf, but Mr and Mrs F and AXA continued to correspond directly as well. 
AXA has paid Mr and Mrs F £350 compensation for this, and I think that was reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as I think AXA Insurance UK Plc has 
paid fair compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman