DRN-4054565
The complaint
Mr T complains about the standard of service and settlement payment offered by AXA 
Insurance UK Plc (AXA) following a claim under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ts catalytic convertor was stolen from his car in early December 2022. He says he 
contacted AXA straight away, in the morning, and was told his car would be collected. This 
didnt happen. Mr T says he had to make further contact with AXA until eventually his car 
was collected later that evening to be stored. He says the standard of communication and 
service from AXA was very poor. Mr T also says his car was damaged when it was 
transported. 
Mr T says his car was subsequently inspected and AXA told him it was a category-N total 
loss. It offered him a settlement payment, which he didnt agree to. After further 
consideration AXA confirmed its final settlement offer in a letter dated 10 January 2023. It 
offered £2,725 less £350 for the policy excess. Mr T says this was lower than the advertised 
prices hed seen for similar cars. He also says he wasnt offered a courtesy car, which meant 
he was without transport. 
In response to Mr Ts complaint AXA acknowledged it failed to provide clear updates about 
the initial collection of his car. It says it expects its agent to communicate more effectively. 
AXA says this caused delays and confusion. But it says its valuation didnt factor in the dents 
thought to be caused when the vehicle was collected. So, this didnt impact on the valuation. 
AXA offered Mr T £600, including £25 for a delay in handling his complaint, to acknowledge 
its poor handling of his claim. 
Mr T didnt think the compensation offered was enough and disagreed with AXAs valuation 
of his car. He decided to refer the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold his 
complaint. He says the settlement offer AXA offered was fair and calculated in line with how 
our service expects this to be done. He acknowledged AXAs handling of the claim couldve 
been better but thought its offer of £600 compensation was fair. 
Mr T didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but I 
will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can see that Mr T contacted AXA when the theft of his catalytic convertor occurred at 
around 11am. He says he was told at around 4pm that the car couldnt be collected that day, 
and the recovery agent didnt work over the weekend. As this was on a Friday it meant there 
would be a delay until the following week. Mr T says he contacted AXA again and was told 
another recovery company would collect his car. He called at 7pm and found out no 
collection had been arranged. After further calls to AXA, and its agent, Mr Ts car was 
collected at around 9pm that day. 
I can understand that this was a frustrating experience for Mr T. The theft of his catalytic 
convertor must have been upsetting. The situation was made worse by AXAs handling of his 
claim, which clearly also caused him inconvenience. AXA acknowledges there were 
confusion and delays in arranging the collection of Mr Ts car. In these circumstances Id 
expect it to offer compensation for the impact these failings had on him. I can see AXA did 
provide Mr T with compensation as a result of these issues. I think this was fair. 
Once Mr Ts car was collected, AXA arranged an inspection by an engineer. From his report 
the engineer confirms the repair estimate at £3,294.78 with the car valued at £2,118. In the 
report the engineer confirms the car was a category-N total loss. This means it can be 
repaired and returned to the road. But AXA had chosen not to because the cost of repairs 
meant it was uneconomical to do so. Given the cost of repairs exceeded the estimated 
market value, I dont think AXA acted unfairly here. 
Ive thought about Mr Ts view that AXAs valuation of his car was too low based on 
advertised for sale prices hed seen. 
I understand Mr T wants the best offer he can get following the total loss decision. But 
having read his policy terms, the policy provides the market value in the case of a total loss. 
This is defined in the policy booklet as:
The cost of replacing the Insured Car with one of the same make, model, age, mileage, 
specification and condition at the date of accident or loss.
We dont provide valuations for vehicles but rather we look to see whether the insurers offer 
is reasonable. In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations 
from the motor trade guides. 
These guides are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be
persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales 
figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take all other available 
evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Mr T says he cant find similar cars advertised at the price AXA offered him. Ive looked at 
the links he provided showing cars for sale. The cars showing have been sold. However, I 
have looked at other similar cars for sale. These vary in price from around £2,000 up to 
around £6,000. At the higher prices the cars shown are younger with significantly less miles 
that Mr Ts car. 
Although Ive looked at this information, we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive 
as these are essentially asking prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the 
trade guides are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices.
Our investigator thought AXAs settlement offer was fair and reasonable. Ive checked
how he arrived at this conclusion. I can see he looked at the valuation information AXA 
provided. It used the correct make, model, age, mileage, and date of loss. 
Our investigator obtained valuations from three of the trade guides using the same 
information for Mr Ts car. These gave valuations of £1,815, £4,161, and £2,725. I can see AXA obtained a similar figure to the higher of the valuations our investigator found. It 
discounted this valuation as an outlier given the significant difference between this and the 
other two valuations. 
Valuing second-hand vehicles isnt an exact science so Id expect there to be a range of 
values where different trade guides are used. I agree that its reasonable to exclude the 
higher of the valuations as an outlier. Based on this AXA offered a settlement payment that 
falls within the range of the trade guide valuations for Mr Ts car. 
Im sorry Mr Ts catalytic convertor was stolen, and this resulted in his car being a total loss. 
But I dont think AXA treated him unfairly when relying on its policy terms and making the 
offer it did. Because of this I cant reasonably require it to increase its settlement offer.
Ive thought about Mr Ts comments that he wasnt provided with a courtesy car. 
His policy terms say:
A courtesy car is not available in respect of total loss claims or where the vehicle is stolen 
and unrecovered, or for accidents occurring outside the UK.
In these circumstances I think the policy terms are clear that a courtesy car wont be 
provided. 
Having considered all of this, I dont think AXA treated Mr T fairly regarding the poor 
standard of communication and claim handling when he first reported his loss. AXA 
concedes damage may have been caused to Mr Ts car by its recovery agent. It has also 
acknowledged its agent may have told Mr T incorrectly, that this incident wouldnt show as a 
fault claim on his policy. I agree that this shows Mr T didnt receive the standard of service, 
and level of communication he should reasonably expect. This caused him frustration, 
inconvenience, and some distress. 
Having said that AXA has paid £600 compensation to acknowledge these issues. I think this 
is fair in the circumstances. So, I cant fairly ask it to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman