DRN-3499971
The complaint
Miss D complains that National Westminster Bank plc (NatWest) failed twice to remove a 
default from her credit file having agreed to do so. She would like more compensation than 
NatWest has paid.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:_
Theres no dispute that , following a complaint to our service , NatWest agreed to 
remove a default in 2017 but didnt do so. Nor did it remove it in February 2022 as it 
also later agreed to do. I understand this has now been sorted.
I understand NatWest  has paid Miss D £150 compensation for its mistake. I think it 
was reasonable to pay some compensation as it twice didnt do what it agreed to do, 
and Miss D had the inconvenience of putting in a complaint to resolve this.
I have noted Miss Ds comments that she doesnt feel the £150 paid is sufficient. She 
has told us because of the default on her credit file she lost the opportunity of getting 
a mortgage and as house prices have now risen,  she feels she has lost out 
financially due to NatWests actions. 
Miss D hasnt given us any evidence to show any mortgage applications were 
rejected. Or that any such rejections were due solely to the default with NatWest. 
Mortgage lenders typically look at a range of factors when deciding on mortgage 
applicants . I would be surprised if one default from one organisation was the sole 
reason for rejecting an application. But  without any evidence to show NatWest was 
solely responsible for failed mortgage applications I cant reasonably ask NatWest to 
pay additional compensation. 
As Miss D hasnt evidenced any actual loss from NatWests actions, I believe the 
£150 compensation paid is appropriate for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman