DRN-2916549
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-operative Bank) provided poor service 
when he went to withdraw funds from his account in branch, and hes unhappy theyve made 
the decision to close his account.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr H deposited two cheques over the counter in his local branch on 3 November 
2020.
The next day he went to the branch to make a cash withdrawal against the funds 
hed paid in.
When he was making his withdrawal request, Mr H says he was asked questions 
from bank staff about his reasons for the withdrawal. They initially declined his 
withdrawal request but allowed him to withdraw the funds the next day.
Later, Mr H received a letter in the post from Co-operative Bank advising him that 
they would be withdrawing their banking facilities due to his behaviour in branch.
Mr H was unhappy with this and raised a complaint to Co-operative Bank, saying that 
having to sort out a new bank account caused him stress and inconvenience and 
hed like them to reverse their decision. 
Co-operative Bank considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. It said that Mr H 
had failed to provide sufficient answers initially in branch but after it had carried out 
further checks, it allowed him to withdraw the funds. It says this was in line with their 
procedures and trying to ensure that Mr H wasnt being a victim of scam.
Regarding the account closure, Co-operative Bank say the branch manager made 
this decision based on Mr Hs threatening behaviour in branch. It maintained that the 
account closure would be going ahead.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt uphold it. He said Co-
operative Bank had followed their own processes and were able to take the decision 
to end their banking relationship with Mr H.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators findings. He said that hed satisfied the banks 
questioning and that hed asked the advisor at the bank to look at the information 
being provided to her.
So, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, and Ive explained why below.
My role is not to consider overturning Co-operative Banks decision to close the 
account. Ive looked at whether theyve fairly exercised their right to do so.
Co-operative Bank have a duty of care to their customers to ensure that theyre not 
being a victim of a scam when making large cash withdrawals. So, Id expect their 
staff to have questioned Mr H when he went in to make his withdrawal.
Id also expect the branch staff to only release the funds when they were satisfied 
with the answers Mr H was providing and any additional checks they had to carry out. 
I appreciate Mr H says he did provide sufficient answers to the questions he was 
being asked, but the decision to authorise the withdrawal doesnt lie with him, its the 
branchs responsibility.
The branch allowed him to withdraw the funds the following day. The branch staff 
who dealt with Mr H felt threatened by his behaviour, so much so they had to call the 
police. Co-operative Bank say they dont tolerate this behaviour from their customers 
and made the decision to end their banking relationship with Mr H. They can 
withdraw their banking facilities to Mr H at any time, much as Mr H could ask to close 
his account with them.
Im satisfied that Co-operative Bank gave Mr H 30 days notice of their intent to close 
his account. Im persuaded this is reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen no evidence which would suggest Co-operative Banks actions have been 
carried out unreasonably. So, I dont consider that it needs to do anything differently 
on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman