DRN-2309030
The complaint
Mr S says TFS Loans Limited shouldnt have accepted him as a guarantor on a loan and in 
doing so it acted irresponsibly.
What happened
A borrower was approved for a £7500 guarantor loan in November 2015. The total amount 
repayable was £16755, to be repaid in monthly payments of £279.25 for 60 months. Mr S 
was approved as the guarantor for this loan.
Mr S says he was not in a financial position be a guarantor and TFS asked for very little 
information. He wants to be removed as the guarantor.
 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He concluded TFS failed to 
complete proportionate checks and had it done so it ought to have realised Mr S could not 
afford to be the guarantor on this loan. 
TFS disagreed with this outcome, saying it did carry out proportionate checks. Mr Ss credit 
file showed he was very low risk and he has not been called on to make any payments. His 
credit profile remains the same and his mortgage payments have reduced so hes in a better 
position now than he was in 2015. 
As agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on are set out on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ss complaint. In relation to
the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice, which applied at the time, there
are four questions which frame our approach in cases such as this one. These are:
1. Did TFS obtain Mr Ss properly informed consent before binding him to the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement?
2. Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr S to satisfy itself 
that he was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not?
- If so, did it make a fair decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
3. Did TFS complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the 
borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that the borrower would have been able to 
do so?
4. Did TFS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
For reasons that will become apparent further on I have not addressed all these questions. 
Instead, Ive started by considering whether TFS completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks on Mr S. The rules and regulations when TFS lent to Mr S required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what was 
owed in a sustainable manner given he was equally liable with the borrower for this debt. 
This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability check.
TFS had to think about whether repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties 
or adverse consequences for Mr S. In other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the 
repayments on Mr S.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit applied for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that 
the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make
repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
TFS says it carried out a credit search, and completed an income and expenditure
assessment for Mr S. It asked for payslips to verify his income, checked the existing credit 
commitments on his credit file and asked what share of the mortgage he paid. It notes his 
credit score showed he was very low risk with a very low level of indebtedness. From these 
checks it found Mr S had enough disposable income to meet the payments should he 
become liable to make them. It therefore concluded the loan repayments wouldve been 
affordable.
I dont agree that these checks were proportionate. Mr S was agreeing to guarantee the 
repayment of £16755 over a five-year period. TFS took no steps to understand his ongoing 
living costs such as council tax, utility costs, food or transport at the time of the application. 
Better checks shouldve been completed to get a fuller understanding of Mr Ss financial 
circumstances before deciding if the loan would be sustainably affordable for him should he 
need to make the repayments.
I have looked at Mr Ss bank statements in the months leading up to the loan. I am not 
saying TFS had to do this, but it is a way for me to understand now what better checks 
would most likely have shown the lender at the time of the application.  
As our investigator set out the bank statements show Mr Ss total expenditure exceeded his 
income. And looking just at what can be fairly categorised as ongoing living costs plus 
existing credit commitments totalled just under £1300 a month. So Mr S did not have the disposable income TFS assumed. Rather the sum of his salary and benefits (£1357.92) just 
stretched to cover his existing expenditure. Had the lender carried out proportionate checks I 
think it would have realised there was a high risk Mr S would not be able to meet his 
obligations as guarantor and cover the repayments if the borrower became unable to.
I considered carefully the comments TFS made in response to the investigators view but 
they do not change my conclusion for the reasons set out above. Any improvement in Mr Ss 
financial position since the loan application is not relevant to this analysis  and I would add 
that I find this is assumed by TFS as it hasnt evidence of his overall financial position, just 
the change in his mortgage payment.
It follows I think TFS should not have accepted Mr S as the guarantor of this loan. Given this 
is my conclusion I wont comment on the other questions I set out as I dont think that any 
findings that I may make will materially affect Mr Ss position. 
Putting things right
To settle Mr Ss complaint, TFS Loans Limited should:
release Mr S from any obligations he has under the Guaranty and Indemnity 
agreement, and then terminate it;
refund any repayments Mr S has made, if any, towards the loan with 8% simple 
interest* from the date of payment to the date of settlement; and
remove any information recorded on Mr Ss credit file as a result of the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint. TFS Loans Limited must now put things right as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman