DRN-2503535
The complaint
Mr L says Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr L bought the PPI in 1998 whilst applying for a new credit card. Our adjudicator who
looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold shouldnt be upheld.
Mr L has already received some money back for the commission Barclays received from
selling him the PPI. However, he still thinks he was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and
disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to
uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
I began by assessing whether I thought Mr L agreed to the PPI. Everything Ive seen points,
quite strongly in my view, to the PPI being something he wanted at the time. I note, for
example the original 1998 card application was by post and the application form presented
two options about having PPI. Mr Ls form was ticked to against the yes option. I note this
option also explained that there would be a charge and that the premiums would be applied
to his account.
Theres good evidence he was aware of the cover because he cancelled it around a six-
months after taking it out. However, he re-started the PPI in November 1999. I see he
subsequently made a claim on the PPI in 2002 upon losing his job. So, Im afraid all these
things strongly imply he agreed to the cover, knew he had an option and had an ongoing
awareness of his right to successfully claim if the circumstances ever arose.
I think Barclays properly obtained his consent
Mr L says the PPI wasnt something he needed because he had sick pay with his job. Our
adjudicator made certain assumptions which Mr L thinks is unfair. However, these events
took place well over 20 years ago. We know the first PPI wasnt an advised one because it
was completed by post  hed have filled this out and selected the PPI in his own time. 
But the second sale is less clear; Barclays is prepared to concede it recommended the 
policy and it was therefore an advised sale. Actually, I dont think any of this matters 
because I think the policy was suitable for Mr L anyway. 
This is because Ive looked at Mr Ls situation and I think he was eligible for the
cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of
policy. Looking at the work he did, I think any sickness protection he had with his job would
have been relatively good, but this doesnt make the PPI unsuitable.
We know he chose the PPI, even after having cancelled it once before. It would have
shown up regularly on his statements and Ive seen nothing suggesting Mr L questioned
this. The PPI policy also paid out 10% of his outstanding credit card balance for up to a
year and, of course, we know now that he did make such a claim. This wouldve been in
addition to any other means Mr L had at that time. I also see that the cost was around 70p
per £100 outstanding on the card, which I think would have been affordable for Mr L.
So, I think this policy was suitable for him. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but I think the evidence shows he chose the policy and would
have known it wasnt something he needed to have. This means Im not upholding his mis-
sale complaint.
Barclays has already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because when the policy
was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of
the PPI premium) It should have told Mr L about that. Because it didnt, that was unfair. To
put that right, Barclays has already paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of
the cost of the PPI to Mr L. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman