DRN-3632832
The complaint
Mr M complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs treatment of him.
What happened
Mr M says he entered into a Debt Management Plan (DMP) with an organisation I will call 
S. He says Lloyds told him it was closing his account as his payment offer was too low and 
so he increased it. But says Lloyds keeps telling him he has broken the terms of the 
agreement as the payments havent been made on the first on the month. Mr M says S takes 
the money on the first of the month and sends it to Lloyds on the 7th. He says Lloyds has 
acted unfairly and would like it to apologise as well as leaving him alone.
Lloyds says it agreed the repayment plan with S and that payments would be received on 
the first of the month. It says it didnt make a mistake by writing to Mr M telling him the plan 
had been broken in circumstances where it didnt receive the money on the agreed date. 
Lloyds says it cant speak to S about the changing the date, but Mr M can or speak to it 
about the date.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the repayment plan had an agreed date of the first of the month which was not kept 
to. And in those circumstances Lloyds didnt make a mistake by telling Mr M that it had been 
broken.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says he received a letter in February 2022 that didnt 
contain any information and questions why other creditors havent written to him like Lloyds 
has done over the date issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint, but I hope 
that Lloyds and Mr M can agree that the date of the repayment can be changed. I appreciate 
Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and make clear to him that I cant consider 
complaint points that Lloyds hasnt had a change to investigate. I also cant fairly comment 
on what Mr Ms other creditors have done about the repayment date issue.
Im satisfied having looked at Lloyds records that the agreement date was set for the first of 
the month. So, I dont think Lloyds made a mistake or acted unfairly by writing to Mr M telling 
him the agreement had been broken when it received payments some days after the first of 
the month. I appreciate Mr M made the payments to S on the first of the month and 
appreciate that S was then responsible for making the payments to Lloyds. But I cant fairly 
hold Lloyds responsible for what took place and think its for Mr M and or S to agree with 
Lloyds a new repayment date. I think Lloyds has made clear that it cant speak to S about 
this issue. And whilst I cant fairly order Lloyds to agree a new date, I cant see any reason 
why it would not do so in order to receive Mr Ms payments.
It is not clear what the up to date position is and if the payment date has now been 
amended. But I cant fairly order Lloyds to apologise to Mr M for what took place when Im 
satisfied it correctly told him the agreement had been broken. And I cant fairly hold Lloyds 
responsible for S agreeing a date if it couldnt comply with it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman