DRN-3508353
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money she lost from what she 
believed was a scam.
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances surrounding this complaint, so I wont repeat
them in full here. But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties I understand
them to be as follows.
In December 2020, Mrs W received a knock on her door, from somebody holding a piece of 
roof felt. They told Mrs W the felt was from her roof and it was damaged and needed fixing. 
They said it would cost £1,200 for the work to be carried out. Believing everything to be 
genuine and thinking her roof needed to be repaired, Mrs W agreed for the work to be done.
  
Soon after, Mrs W was told that further work was needed on the roof and that this would cost 
£12,000 to put right. Mrs W has told us at the time, tiles had been removed and with half the 
roof missing she felt that she had no option but to agree to the additional work.
Mrs W made an initial payment for the work in cash, followed by three bank transfers to 
account details she was given by the person. Overall, the following transactions were made 
from her Barclays account;
2 December 2020 cash £1,100
3 December 2020 transfer through mobile banking £   890
3 December 2020 transfer through mobile banking £5,000
4 December 2020 transfer through mobile banking £4,950
Mrs W has said that, soon after shed made the payments, she received a call from the 
receiving bank (the bank to which the money was sent). Shes said she was told to speak to 
a family member as the receiving bank believed Mrs W may have been the victim of a scam. 
Mrs W has told us that following this she contacted a professional roofer to look at things 
and damage to her roof was discovered, which cost her £740 to put right. 
Mrs W raised the matter with Barclays, and it issued its final response, in February 2021, not 
upholding the complaint. In summary, it said that when it had spoken to Mrs W she had 
confirmed that work had been carried out, but that she had been overcharged. So Barclays 
considered that this was a buyer-seller dispute. Barclays added that when Mrs W had made 
the payments it had made her aware of the risk of scams and given relevant warning 
messages. Barclays did recognise it had made an error in adding incorrect details to a claim 
letter it had sent to Mrs W and paid £150 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused.
 
Unhappy with Barclayss response, Mrs W then brought her complaint to our service and
one of our investigators looked into it. Our investigator invited Barclays to reconsider its 
position. This was because she thought Mrs W had been the victim of a scam, which she 
said was supported by information from the police, to who Mrs W had reported the matter, 
indicating they also considered that Mrs W had fallen victim to a scam. Barclays said that 
although the police had said this was a criminal matter, it doesnt provide confirmation that 
this was a scam. It added that it had reached out to the receiving bank, who said it had no 
record of speaking to Mrs W. It said Mrs W had work carried out and had only told the bank 
that the work had fallen below standard, adding that it had no evidence that the work carried 
out would not have cost the amount she paid. Barclays also didnt consider the payments 
Mrs W had made were out of character. Overall Barclays said its stance hadnt changed and 
it requested a formal view. 
Following this our investigator issued her view. In summary, she thought that Mrs W had 
been the victim of a scam, so Barclays should have considered the matter under The 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). In summary, she considered what had 
happened carried the hallmarks of a rogue trader scam. She said shed spoken to the roofer 
who had repaired the roof. Theyd said they didnt believe it was the work of a genuine roofer 
and had said that any work on the roof would have cost no more than £1,000. It was the 
belief of both the professional roofer and the police that Mrs W had been the victim of a 
scam, with the police adding that it was moving to the next stage in its process, being for an 
arrest warrant to be issued. Our investigator also noted that Mrs W was 77 years old, with 
people in Mrs Ws age range often being targeted for this type of scam.
 
Our investigator went on to say she thought Mrs W had a reasonable basis for believing she 
was making a payment for a legitimate service and that she didnt think Barclays had 
demonstrated it had provided effective warnings. She also thought, at the point Mrs W was 
making the payment for £5,000, on 3 December 2020, Barclays missed an opportunity to 
prevent the scam. Overall, our investigators view was that Barclays should repay Mrs W the 
money she lost (less the cash payment as this was not covered by the code), along with 
interest.
Mrs W agreed with our investigators view. Barclays didnt respond, so the case has now 
been passed over to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same outcome as that of our investigator and for similar 
reasons. Im not satisfied Barclays has shown that Mrs W shouldnt have received a refund 
under the CRM code and I also think it missed an opportunity to bring the scam to a halt 
sooner. Ill explain why;
Firstly, Ive thought about Barclays opinion that this should be considered a buyer seller 
dispute, as some work was carried out, albeit to a poor standard. Having reviewed the 
evidence we have, including video evidence from the roofer (who subsequently repaired the 
roof). Im satisfied the person Mrs W paid had no real intention to complete the work Mrs W 
paid for. 
I say that as the video evidence clearly shows that there are holes in the roof and parts of 
the roof have been removed. Im persuaded that the activity that has been carried out on the 
roof falls substantially below what one could fairly put down to just poor workmanship. It is 
typical of these types of scams that fraudsters will do something, on the pretence that they 
are carrying out some kind of work, but this is solely for the purpose of extorting more 
money from their victims. From what Ive seen Im persuaded that was the case here.
 
Alongside this Im mindful that what was happening here carried many of the hallmarks of 
this type of scam. Mrs Ws age is relevant here, with people of Mrs Ws age often being targeted. And it is typical of this type of scam that victims are cold called, with the fraudsters 
often armed with pieces of roof (tiles / felt) that they show their victims when telling them 
their roof needs repairing. It follows that a price is given for a small amount of work, that very 
quickly escalates. All of which happened in the circumstances of this case. 
Alongside this, I think its also relevant here that both the police and the professional roofer, 
seem in little doubt that Mrs W has been the victim of a scam. When considering all of this in 
the round, on balance, Im persuaded that Mrs W was subject to a fraudulent act and that 
her claim should be considered under the provision of the CRM Code.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish
that*:
- The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning.
- The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case
Ive carefully considered Barclayss representations that Mrs W ignored effective warnings.
But these do not persuade me to reach a different view and I dont think Barclays has 
established that it can rely on this exception. 
Did Barclays provide an effective warning to Mrs W?
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the
scam.
Barclays has said Mrs W was provided with the following warning before proceeding with her 
payments;
Were continuing to increase the protection we offer you, but its also important for you to
protect yourself. Once a transactions gone through, its difficult to recover your money. Well
never ask you to move your money to a safe account, nor will the police, HMRC or any 
trusted organisation.
Stay safe from scams. Check the tradesperson is legitimate by researching and reading
reviews, and ask them for testimonials and evidence that theyre licensed. This will help 
protect you from scammers who start work with no intention of finishing. Shop around for a 
fair price and consider paying by instalments.
Fraudsters can intercept emails and invoices from genuine tradespeople and change the
account details and name to their own, so speak directly to your payee to verify their details.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, as a minimum, an effective warning needs to be 
understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also provide information that 
gives customers a better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded and should 
include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect themselves from APP scams. The CRM Code sets out minimum criteria that a warning must meet to be an effective 
warning. In very broad terms, it requires that a warning will be capable of countering the 
typical features of the generic scam type identified during the payment journey. 
I appreciate that the warning Barclays gave, in part, references paying for building work, and 
advised to check the tradesperson was legitimate by researching and reading reviews. But 
the warning opens by talking about safe account scams and mentions HMRC and the police, 
none of which applied to Mrs Ws situation. And the tradesperson element of the warning 
goes on to refer to making a payment in the context of email intercept scams, which again 
didnt relate to the circumstances Mrs W found herself in. I dont consider the warning is 
specific enough to the circumstances of the type of scam Mrs W was falling victim to.
I also dont think the warning goes far enough to make the risk really obvious to customers. It 
doesnt bring to life what this type of scam looks like, nor does it talk about the prevalence of 
this type of scam. For example  it doesnt explain that fraudsters will often cold call their 
victims and say that work is required and then, soon after, claim further, much more 
expensive work is needed.
 
The warning also doesnt clearly set out the consequences of not taking the suggested steps 
in the warning. For example, setting out that the transaction will be irrevocable, and likely 
mean the funds cannot be recovered. So overall, Im not satisfied Barclays warning met the 
requisite criteria here.
Overall, I dont consider the warning given was an effective warning as defined by the CRM 
Code. It follows that Barclays has not established it can fairly apply the exception to 
reimbursement relating to ignoring an effective warning.
Did Mrs W have a reasonable basis for believing the payments she made were genuine?
I also think Mrs W had a reasonable basis for believing the payments she made were for a
legitimate purpose. I say that because;
- The fraudster appears to have manipulated the situation by putting Mrs Ws roof in a 
worse state and using this to persuade Mrs W that further work was required. Mrs W 
wasnt aware of how rogue trader scams worked and hadnt previously been a victim 
to this type of scam. She genuinely thought her roof needed to be fixed. Considering 
her age and the time of year (being in winter), and in the absence of a warning 
explaining how these types of scams played out, it is understandable why she 
proceeded without any suspicion or cause for concern.
- The fraudster had damaged Mrs Ws roof and presented to her parts of it as proof 
that it needed repairing, faced with this I can understand why she reasonably thought 
the roof needed repairing. 
- Ive thought carefully that Mrs W didnt carry out any further checks before 
proceeding. But the initial cost Mrs W was given for the work was £1,200 and given 
what Ive said above, in that Mrs W thought she urgently needed the work done, I can 
understand how she reasonably may have taken this to have been an acceptable 
price and proceeded. 
Overall, Im persuaded that Mrs W didnt lack a reasonable basis for belief that the money 
was being sent for genuine roof repairs when she made the payments, so I dont think 
Barclays can fairly or reasonably rely on this exception to not refund Mrs W under the CRM 
code.Could Barclays have done anything else to prevent the scam?
Finally, Ive thought about whether, moving away from the CRM Code, Barclays couldve
done anything else to prevent Mrs W falling victim to the scam.
Having thought carefully about this and considering what was good industry practice at the
time, I think Barclays, considering the frequency and amount of the payments should have
been alerted that this consumer was potentially at risk. Had the bank intervened I think it,
more likely than not, that these concerns would not have been alleviated and it could fairly 
and reasonably have taken further steps, which if it had of done would more likely than not 
have prevented the scam.
When considering Mrs Ws account activity in the six months leading up to the scam, I dont
think the first two transactions (£1,100 cash withdrawal and transfer for £890) Mrs W made 
to the fraudster, albeit a reasonably large sized cash withdrawal and a payment to a new 
payee, would have appeared so unusual or out of character that I could fairly or reasonably 
have expected Barclays to have intervened. But at the point, on 3 December 2020, when 
Mrs W makes a payment for £5,000, considering the amount is increasing, and so soon after 
Mrs W had withdrawn a large amount of cash and set up a new payee, there was enough 
going on that Barclays ought to have had concerns that Mrs W may have been at risk of 
financial harm and ought to have intervened. I think this is supported by Barclays itself, as I 
can see from the evidence it has provided that it noted the payment was out of character 
compared to Mrs Ws usual spend and it was deferred by its fraud detection system. 
Had Barclays intervened at this point, as I think it ought to have done, I think it would have
made the difference and I think the fraud would have come to light. I say this as Mrs W 
hadnt been coached by the fraudster on what to say if her bank had of intervened, as can 
often be the case with scams, so I think she would have answered any questions Barclays 
put to her freely.
I think she would have explained she had been cold called by somebody offering to repair 
her roof, but had now been told that further work was required, which was much more 
expensive. I dont think the answers Mrs W would have, more likely than not, given to 
Barclays, would have done anything to relieve it of concerns it ought to have had that Mrs W 
may be at risk. I think its reasonable to expect professional financial businesses to be alive 
to the fact that rogue trader scams were, and still are prevalent, and the circumstances that 
Mrs W is likely to have explained, with a small roof repair being offered out of the blue, 
followed by further work, carried common hallmarks of this type of scam.
As Ive mentioned, Im also mindful that Mrs W was in her late seventies at the time of the 
payments, and I think this is a relevant factor here. Mrs Ws age profile is one that is 
disproportionately targeted by fraudsters, particularly for this type of scam, and this is 
something that has been recognised by the industry for a long time.
For clarity, my thoughts that Barclays ought to have prevented the scam from continuing
from the point she is making a payment for £5,000 on 3 December 2020, have a limited 
impact on the outcome of this complaint, given Ive decided Mrs W shouldve been
reimbursed under the provisions of the CRM Code. The impact relates to the interest
payable only.
Im mindful there is some contrary evidence regarding how the scam was uncovered. Mrs W 
has said that she received a call from the receiving bank warning her, but Barclays has said 
that the receiving bank has no records of this call. Where there are conflicting views, such as 
here, I would typically make a finding based on the balance of probabilities. But in the specific circumstances of this case, I dont consider that how Mrs W came to believe she had 
been scammed impacts my overall decision. So I havent made a finding about this specific 
point.
 
I do acknowledge the main perpetrators here are the fraudsters, but overall I dont think
Barclays went far enough and an opportunity was missed to uncover the scam. Im
persuaded Mrs W met her requisite level of care and I dont believe Barclays has
established it was able to choose not to refund her under the CRM Code and alongside this
I think it missed an opportunity to prevent the payment from being made.
In the circumstances, I think it should have refunded Mrs W fully under the provisions of the
CRM Code.
Putting things right
 I think its fair that Barclays should now;
- refund the money Mrs W lost (excluding the initial cash withdrawal of £1,100)
- pay interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on the transaction for £890 (less any 
tax properly deductible) from the date Barclays declined Mrs Ws claim under the 
CRM to the date of settlement.
- pay interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on the transactions for £5,000 and 
£4,950 (less any tax properly deductible) from the date of the transactions to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman