DRN-1636094
 
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr E and Mrs E bought a regular premium MPPI policy in June 1994. They purchased the 
policy during a meeting with an advisor from Halifax in one of its branches. The mortgage 
ended in May 2000.
Mr E and Mrs E say they were told they had to have MPPI as a condition of the mortgage. 
They also say the policy should have covered both of them so was an unsuitable product. 
They think Halifax mis-sold the policy to them.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr E and Mrs Es complaint. As they dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr E and Mrs Es case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mr E and Mrs Es complaint because of the following reasons:
Mr E and Mrs E say they were told they had to have MPPI as a condition of having 
the mortgage in 1994. 
 
I acknowledge everything Mr E and Mrs E have said. I cant be sure exactly what was 
discussed between them and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that 
the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections of what happened 
can fade over time.
 
Halifax hasnt provided any sales documentation from the time the policy was sold. 
Thats not surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other 
cases Ive seen. 
 
Without anything else to support what Mr E and Mrs E have told me, and based on 
what I know of sales conducted by Halifax during that time, I cant safely conclude that Halifax didnt make them aware that the policy was optional. I've not seen 
enough to safely make that conclusion.
 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr E and Mrs E during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed 
that this was the case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr E (as the sole policy 
holder), it had to ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for his needs. 
 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mr E based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr E says he would have been able to claim 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay 
and he had £8000 worth of savings but the MPPI policy would have paid in addition 
to any provisions he and Mrs E would have had and for longer. So the benefit would 
have been of use to Mr E during a difficult time as he could have used his provisions 
to pay for other expenses. I think, on balance, Mr E had a need for this cover based 
on his circumstances at the date of sale, for any extended period of unemployment or 
sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting term 
that would make the policy unsuitable for him either.
 
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mr E and Mrs E took out but even though it has provided information detailing 
the cover and how much it cost, I cannot be sure that these costs were disclosed to 
Mr E and Mrs E in a clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they 
were disclosed clearly I dont think Mr E and Mrs E would have done anything 
different and decided against having the policy for the reasons that I have already 
given for the policy being suitable.
 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr E and Mrs E wouldve been affected by any of these.
 
Finally, Mr E and Mrs E have said the MPPI policy should have covered both of them and 
that the policy was not a suitable recommendation for them. I acknowledge their comments 
and have carefully considered them. But I do agree with the adjudicator, that they have not 
lost out because of the way in which the policy was set up as they have not needed to make 
a claim over the time they held the policy. 
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mr E and 
Mrs Es complaint. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr E and Mrs E's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman