DRN-3790871
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Nationwide Building Society handled his chargeback claim. 
He says he was told that he would receive a full refund but this didnt happen.
What happened
Mr M booked flights and accommodation and paid using his Nationwide credit card.
Mr M says he was unable to board his flight due to staffing issues of the flight provider at the 
airport. He called Nationwide and asked whether he would be able to get refund for the flight.
Mr M says he was told that he could get a full refund. On the basis of this information, he 
booked another flight.
Mr M later raised a chargeback dispute with Nationwide but his claim was declined.
Mr M complained to Nationwide. In response, Nationwide apologised that Mr M had been 
given incorrect information and said he should not have been advised that he would receive 
a full refund, as any chargeback claim would be decided by Visa and there was no 
guarantee of a refund. Nationwide paid compensation of £100 to Mr M.
Mr M remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said she didnt think there were reasonable 
prospects of success for a refund under the chargeback claim.
Mr M didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide wasnt the supplier of the flights and accommodation. But where good or 
services are paid for with a payment card, the card issuer (Nationwide) may be able to 
request a refund under the chargeback scheme. The scheme provides a mechanism for 
resolving disputes where, for example, the service paid for isnt provided or isnt provided 
with reasonable care and skill.
Mr M is unhappy because Nationwide advised him that he would receive a full refund. He 
says that in reliance on this advice, he booked and paid for another flight.
Nationwide doesnt dispute that it gave misleading advice. It has acknowledged this in its 
final response and has paid £100 compensation to Mr M.
Ive thought about whether the advice given by Nationwide amounts to a misrepresentation. 
In order to find that theres been a misrepresentation, Id need to be persuaded that 
Nationwide made an untrue statement of fact, and that this was the reason for Mr M entering 
into the contract (i.e. booking another flight)
I cant be certain of exactly what was discussed between Mr M and Nationwide. But even if 
Nationwide did advise Mr M that he would receive a full refund, I dont think this statement 
was the sole or main reason why Mr M decided to book another flight. This is because Mr M 
has told this service that the accommodation abroad was still available to him and he was 
meeting family there. In my view, Mr M wouldve booked another flight in any event. 
Therefore, Im not persuade that theres been a misrepresentation. 
I appreciate that Mr M is unhappy that his chargeback claim was declined. So, Ive also 
considered this.
A chargeback can only succeed if theres been a breach of contract. So, in this scenario, a 
breach of contract might include things such as the flight being cancelled, or the flight being 
delayed/. Based on the information Ive seen, the flight went ahead on time. So, I cant say 
theres been a breach of contract. I dont think a chargeback claim wouldve had any 
prospect of success here.
In conclusion, I agree that Nationwide gave misleading advice, but Im not satisfied that this 
amounts to a misrepresentation. I think the compensation already paid to Mr M for poor 
customer service is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman