DRN-3845627
The complaint
Mrs M complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial 
Services (BMW) have treated her unfairly in issuing a default notice on her account and potentially terminating the agreement. 
What happenedMrs M took out a hire purchase agreement with BMW in 2020 for a car. She had some 
problems with payment deferrals and missed payments in 2020 and 2021 which she complained about separately to BMW. Those were dealt with on that separate complaint, so I wont be considering those here. 
In July and August 2021 BMW asked to discuss a plan for the arrears on the agreement with 
Mrs M, but no meaningful discussions took place. BMW confirmed they were unable to extend her agreement and advised her to review the options theyd provided to exit the agreement. 
Due to some confusion, BMW agreed to remove some adverse information on her credit file 
for August 2021, but she was told she needed to have contacted them to set up a payment plan or take other action to deal with the arrears by 26 August 2021. 
Mrs M emailed them in September 2021 saying she couldnt downgrade the vehicle, which 
was one of the options previously discussed, as shed been told there were issues with her evidencing affordability from her bank statements.
BMW tried to contact her in December 2021 to discuss the arrears, unsuccessfully. In 2022, 
BMW were considering terminating the agreement, but Mrs Ms previous complaint was with our service, so they held off to await an outcome on that. They spoke to Mrs M in March 2022 and she told them she wasnt willing to pay anything towards the arrears until the results of her complaint to our service were received. 
In August 2022, BMW issued a default notice on the agreement. A few days later they spoke 
to Mrs M. Her previous complaint with our service had concluded by this point. Mrs M asked to extend her agreement, but they explained this wasnt possible. Mrs M explained she was on maternity leave and not in receipt of full maternity pay and was in receipt of benefits. 
BMW explained that if Mrs M couldnt agree a way to repay the arrears, then she would need 
to voluntarily terminate the agreement, but said Mrs M declined this as she needed the car. She raised a complaint about the service she was being provided. 
BMW issued their final response letter (FRL) on 12 September 2022. In it, they said that they 
hadnt been able to do anymore with regards to part exchanging the car previously as she hadnt contacted them in the relevant timescales, and that with no resolution to the arrears and so much time having passed, they had issued the default notice. They explained her options at this time, which based on that fact shed told them about her reduced income, were to voluntarily terminate the agreement, or potentially sell the car to repay the agreement in full. 
This was partly based on Mrs M refusing to complete an income and expenditure check or 
share these details with BMW. Because this meant they couldnt assess her affordability for any payment plans, they didnt think it would be fair to consider this option. They also reiterated that she couldnt extend her agreement further. 
BMW gave her until 16 September 2022 to proceed with an option to exit the agreement, or 
they would have to terminate the agreement and take steps to recover the vehicle.
Mrs M called BMW on 16 September 2022 to discuss things. She was advised that she 
should escalate her complaint to our service if she wasnt happy. Mrs M emailed BMW on 17 September 2022, to raise concerns mostly related to her previous complaint about the arrears. She also called them on 26 September, and it was again explained that to come to any sort of arrangement with her, she would have to share income and expenditure details with BMW, so they could assess her affordability. Mrs M agreed to complete an income and expenditure form if it was provided by post, as she said her printer wasnt working. 
Alongside this, on 22 September 2022, Mrs M brought her complaint to our service. An 
investigator here investigated it and did not uphold it. They explained that we could not consider the circumstances of the arrears, as that had already been looked at for a previous complaint. All we could consider now was whether BMW had treated her fairly in issuing the default notice and in then looking to terminate the agreement. 
They explained that in their view, she hadnt engaged with BMW about coming to an 
arrangement to deal with the arrears, and that BMW were obliged to ensure payment arrangements were affordable and in the best interests of a customer. As they hadnt been able to do this, they had treated her fairly in the decision to default the agreement in August 2022.  
Mrs M disagreed with this view and asked to escalate the complaint for an Ombudsman to 
make a final decision. She said that BMW finance hadnt been fair with her, and they had defaulted her account without giving her affordable options. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs M was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
I empathise with Mrs Ms situation, but as all parties have explained, we can only consider 
the current issues with regards to the defaulting of the agreement. We cant revisit her concerns about how these arrears happened, because that complaint has already been dealt with previously.
BMW have shown that they have made numerous efforts to engage with Mrs M to find a way 
to deal with the arrears. Mrs M doesnt feel theyve provided affordable options, but she hasnt engaged with their requests to show that she can afford to make payments to deal with the arrears. 
Under the FCA guidelines, BMW are required to show that theyve treated Mrs M with due 
consideration and forbearance . One of the things that this means is that to treat her fairly, 
they have to be able to show that any arrangements to deal with arrears are affordable to her and wont create further financial problems. Mrs M has told BMW that shes on maternity leave with reduced income. Shes declined to provide evidence of what her income is however, or what her outgoings are. 
In these circumstances, BMW risk treating her unfairly by allowing her to potentially get into 
further financial difficulties, and potentially negatively impacting her credit file more than this agreement already has. 
Mrs M is concerned that she isnt being given affordable options to deal with the arrears, but 
unfortunately, the reality is that without proving she can afford any payments, BMW have no choice but to assume that the only affordable options to deal with the arrears will be to terminate the agreement, recover the car, and sell it to try to clear the money owing on the agreement.  
Ive great empathy with Mrs M, but unfortunately, if a car is no longer affordable, the fairest 
thing to do is for a business to terminate the agreement and recover the car, to ensure the customer doesnt get into further financial difficulties through keeping the agreement going. She is in arrears on the agreement, and whilst shes making her normal monthly payments, shes not showing that she can also pay off the arrears. 
Mrs M has pointed to the fact that shes been able to make all her contracted monthly 
payments since the dispute over the arrears. But as the agreement continues, BMW need to know how she will also pay the arrears. And whilst Mrs M has declined to share her income and expenditure details with them, theyve been unable to deal with this. 
Mrs M wants to extend the agreement, but BMW have said they cant do this. In making this 
decision, BMW are entitled to consider the fact that they dont know how this will be affordable to Mrs M. Shes said that she shouldnt have to prove affordability again, as this only needs to be done at the beginning of the agreement. But shes asking to change the terms that the agreement was set up with, so as a responsible lender, Id expect to see BMW wanting to check any changes were affordable. 
BMW are also entitled to consider the impact on themselves and the agreement. For 
example, extending the agreement further will lead to the car being older at the end. The agreement has already been extended with a payment deferral, and so they are having to consider whether extending it even further will reduce the value of the car to a point that it then becomes unviable for them commercially. 
They agreed a schedule which meant they would get the car back after four years if Mrs M 
chose not to make the optional final payment. Thats already been extended once, and if its extended further, the car will be older and worth less when its returned. Its not unreasonable for BMW to also consider this sort of detail and there is no requirement for them to extend the agreement further just because Mrs M prefers to do this.  
The complaint was brought to us in September 2022, and its possible that the situation has 
progressed since then. But for the purposes of the complaint that was raised, I am satisfied that BMW have treated Mrs M fairly in issuing the default notice on the agreement in August 2022, and in looking to terminate the agreement. Theyve followed relevant guidance and given Mrs M ample time to decide how to deal with the arrears. Mrs M hasnt engaged with them about whether she can afford to address the arrears on the 
account, despite many attempts to discuss this with her. I am satisfied that BMW have treated her fairly and with due consideration and forbearance when they decided they needed to issue the default notice and potentially terminate the agreement. I wont be asking BMW to do anything further.    
My final decisionI am not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Paul CroninOmbudsman