DRN-3274347
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says was misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around May 2018, Mrs D was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to 
talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After 
being visited by a representative of P, Mrs D decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In September 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mrs Ds behalf under section 
75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs D to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was documented as £10,920 to mislead Mrs D, as when 
the interest was added the total cost was actually £15,580;
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) would provide enough income to cover the finance agreement 
repayments costs.
Shawbrook issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs D or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
However it offered £200 compensation for its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs D and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
the salesman had never shown Mrs D the quotation;
Mrs D had never signed the quotation, and she does not recognize the signatures 
which appear on it and does not believe them to be her signatures;
a copy of the quotation had never been sent to her to read in her own time;
being satisfied with what she had been told in the sales meeting, Mrs D had not 
thought it necessary to ask for a copy of the quotation afterwards;
other customers have reported similar sales tactics, so Mrs Ds claims were credible;
where a person is unaware that a representation is false, the fact that they could 
have found out it was false by taking reasonable care is not a defence in law.1
1 Citing Chitty on Contracts (32nd edition), paragraph 7-043 (corresponding to para. 9-051, 34th ed.).
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs D paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs D could claim against Shawbrook, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs D and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged representations made 
by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact alongside Mrs Ds recollection of the sale.
The CMC continues to question whether the quotation document formed a central part of the 
sales process with P when Mrs D agreed to enter into the contract for the system. I have 
carefully considered the points made by the representative along with those made by 
Shawbrook on behalf of P. Having done so, I remain satisfied that the quotation did form a 
central part of the sales process when Mrs D agreed to enter into the contract.
Shawbrook has provided evidence that it sent its welcome pack, which includes the quote to 
Mrs D by email on 21 May 2018, three days after the date it was signed. It was sent to the 
correct email address. Shawbrook has also provided a screenshot, which it obtained from P, 
showing that it was electronically signed. So Im satisfied that Mrs D signed it and a copy 
was sent to her; she has probably just forgotten it, having complained more than two years after the sale. It may be the case that she does not recognise her signature because, being 
e-signed, it is distorted from her usual handwriting.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Cost of the system
Im satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Mrs D makes it clear that the overall cost 
of the system is £15,580. This sets out that the cash price of the system was £10,920, the 
total amount of credit is £10,820, the deposit was £100, the total charge for credit is £4,660, 
and it goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £15,580.
As the quote provided by P is clear that there would be a monthly loan repayment due, as 
set out in the table below, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the credit 
agreement, made it clear that it would cost Mrs D more than the cash price as she had 
decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan.
FIT payments
Mrs D has alleged that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or 
self-funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P and 
considered whether this supports what Mrs D has said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs D could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs D could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £141.61.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs D could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £249.42 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs D, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as 
£713.59. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs D entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of £130.71. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £129.00, but the difference  £1.71  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the ten year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment of £130.71, to give an average difference between the monthly 
return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative 
figure for every year of the loan period. (I would normally present the table here, but my copy 
is not of good enough quality to do so in this case.)
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs D could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that she was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
I am reinforced in that conclusion by the graph below, which also appears in the quote. It 
clearly shows that throughout the loan period, the monthly payments would always exceed 
the expected FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs D that the system would self-funding.
Ive considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from 
the system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the £1.71 
discrepancy in the monthly payments).
The graph above makes it clear that the system would not begin to make a profit, taking the 
loan interest into account, until year 15. Im of the view that this makes it clear that the 
system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. I think the quote is clear that there would be a 
difference between the expected income and monthly loan repayments.
However, I do accept that Mrs D was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote has a graph detailing the performance over 25 years. 
This shows that by year 12 the overall benefits that Mrs D could expect to receive would 
have exceeded the cash price of the system.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the performance of the system over 25 years. 
This shows that by the end of year 12 the overall benefits that Mrs D could expect to receive 
would have exceeded the cash price of the system (£10,920), and that by the end of year 15 
the overall benefits would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement (£15,580).
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs D that the system would pay for itself by 
the end of year 12, and would pay for the loan by the end of year 15, as supported by the 
table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what 
induced her to enter into the contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would 
amount to a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs D. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,136 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mrs Ds FIT statements and can see that her system, on average, has 
generated 2,577 kWh a year. This is significantly more than estimated by P at the point of 
sale (by about 20 percent), so Im satisfied that the system is performing better than 
expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mrs D hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs D could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs D entered into the contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs D to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mrs D to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for 
its delay in responding to her complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman