DRN-3785362
The complaint
Ms H has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to her purchase of some 
solar panels.
Ms H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Ms H bought solar panels for her home in October 2018. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and so that business is liable under the Act for the acts and omissions of 
the installer. On behalf of Ms H, the CMC says:
the installer misled her into believing that the panels would be self-funding, but they 
werent;
the quote said that the panels would generate 1,675 kWh a year, but when they were 
subsequently installed the MCS certificate said they would only generate 1,591 kWh;
by either measure, the panels have failed to generate as much as Ms H was told they 
would;
the installer failed to tell Ms H that the panels would deteriorate over time and so 
would gradually produce less and less electricity;
the installer did not explain that the income from the panels would fluctuate 
depending on the time of year; and
the installer did not tell Ms H that the panels may need cleaning, or that some parts 
might require maintenance or have to be replaced when they failed.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Ms H and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC did not agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It argued that as Ms H 
was an eye-witness to what happened at the sales meeting, and the salesmans direct 
testimony had not been obtained by Ikano, Ms Hs evidence ought to be preferred.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. I will explain 
why.
Misrepresentation: was Ms H told the panels would be self-funding?
I do not accept that Ms H was told that the panels would make enough to cover her loan 
payments. That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and 
the estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach 
the cost.
The contract is dated 9 October 2018, which is 13 days before the panels were installed. 
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right are two figures indicating a range; the 
high end is £217.01. I think this figure is conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. To 
the left it says that the finance amount is £5,400, payable over ten years. This document was 
signed by Ms H immediately below those figures, and so I am satisfied that the installers 
salesman did bring this information to her attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Ms H could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come 
to £540 each year. That is more than twice the stated benefit figure for the first year. Again, 
I think this is clear and easy to understand.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Ms H about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
The CMC has reminded me that the law is that it is not a defence to a claim for 
misrepresentation to show that the misrepresentee could, with due diligence, have 
discovered the true facts. I agree, but that is not the basis on which our adjudicator and 
I have rejected this complaint. Rather, I have found that the salesman did not mislead Ms H. 
It does not seem likely to me that the salesman told her the panels would pay for themselves 
at the same time as asking her to sign a piece of paper that said they would not.
For that reason, although I have not heard directly from the salesman, I do not accept the 
CMCs submission that Ms Hs own evidence is the only evidence about what was said at 
the meeting. The contract is also evidence about that.
Misrepresentation: the different generation figures
No explanation has been given for why the generation figure in the MCS certificate is 
different to the one that was given in the quote. However, 1,591 kWh is 95% of 1,675 kWh, 
so I am not persuaded that Ms H would have chosen not to buy the panels if she had been 
told the lower figure at the point of sale.
However, I have assumed that the higher figure was used for estimating the benefits shown 
on the sales contract. 95% of £217.01 is £206.15. This seems to me to be too small a 
difference to have misled Ms H into thinking that the panels would pay for themselves, and 
so my conclusion in the previous section has not changed.
Under-performance
Ms Hs meter reading on 10 March 2022 was 5350.99 kWh. That gives an average 
generation figure of 1,584 kWh a year. That is almost precisely the figure given in the MCS 
certificate, and 94.6% of the figure which was given in the quote (1,675 kWh). So I am 
satisfied that the system is performing as it should.
Deterioration over time
The quote included a section titled Predicted System Performance. Here, under the 
heading Some things you need to know it said: The predicted output assumes 
degradation at 1% loss per year. So Im satisfied that the installer told Ms H about this.
Variation of performance over the year
Given that solar panels derive energy from sunlight, I think it is rather obvious that their 
performance will vary throughout the seasons. So I dont think there is anything in this point.
Maintenance
I am not persuaded that a salesman not specifically saying that equipment might need 
cleaning or other maintenance actually amounts to a misrepresentation. However, I note that 
the installation handover pack states (in the section titled Our Proposal) that Where there 
is a need to claim on a manufacturers warranty within the first 10 years we will make the 
claim from the manufacturer on your behalf and we will replace the faulty equipment free of 
charge So I think Ms H was told about this.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman