DRN-4053819
The complaint
Ms W complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has misplaced or 
misappropriated a pension contribution she paid in 1987. She would like the current value of 
the contribution transferred to another pension plan. 
What happened
Ms W says she made a pension contribution to a group retirement annuity contract (the 
Scheme) with Provident Mutual (now Aviva) which was administered by her insurance broker 
in 1987. Her employment contract required her to make a certain level of pension 
contribution and her employer would then re-imburse two thirds of the contribution on 
evidence of payment. Ms W says shed made contributions to various pension providers 
over the years through the same broker without issue. For the 1987/88 tax year her broker 
suggested splitting the contribution between two pension providers, with £4,060 to be 
invested in the Scheme with Provident Mutual. 
The broker forwarded Ms W self-employed contribution certificates (SEPC), generated by 
Provident Mutual and the other provider. The SEPC were required by HMRC for tax relief on 
the contributions to be granted. Ms W says both tax relief and her employers re-
imbursement towards the contributions were successfully obtained. Ms W says she raised 
queries with the broker about a policy document from Provident Mutual and was advised, 
that, as the broker administered the Scheme such documents were not issued. 
Ms W subsequently emigrated but retained her various UK pension plans and says she 
recently decided to consolidate these into a SIPP arrangement for inheritance planning 
reasons. Coming across the original records for the payment to Provident Mutual, Ms W 
contacted Aviva. It made various enquiries over several months and located a membership 
register for the Scheme. This contained a partial entry for her against a membership number 
of 85. But said it was unable to locate any policy for her. It suggested that the policy had 
either never been set up, refunded or might have been transferred out. 
Ms W complained about the lost contribution and poor record keeping. Aviva rejected her 
complaint, saying it couldnt locate the policy having conducted a thorough investigation of 
our systems. Ms W provided further documents from her records relating to the contribution, 
but Aviva didnt change its decision. 
Ms W referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it. 
He said the key evidence was the SEPC, which specifically states the contribution and date 
it was paid. He said he felt it was more likely than not that the policy was set up. But that he 
couldnt speculate on what had happened after this as there was no evidence. He said that 
Aviva was only required to keep records for six years or for as long as they remained 
relevant and needed. He said the contribution may have been refunded to her or any policy 
subsequently transferred which Ms W may have forgotten about. He said there was no 
evidence of an error, and he didnt think Aviva needed to compensate Ms W.
Ms W disagreed and made a number of points: 
1. She said our investigator said he couldnt speculate about what had happened after 
the policy was set up. But then did so in favour of Aviva by saying the contribution 
may have been refunded or the policy transferred, despite there being not one shred 
of evidence to support that speculation.
2. She said there was evidence of Provident Mutual making errors over the date the 
contribution was paid. And in the handwritten records of the Scheme, where an 
abbreviation (U/L) had been entered only against Ms Ws name and none of the 
other members (more than eighty people). Which no one had been able to identify or 
explain the meaning of. She said this should not have been allowed to be entered or 
remain in such a vital document as a pension membership register. She said these 
two errors showed a lack of due care and diligence. 
3. That the records which had been produced, would only have been generated had a 
contribution been made, which Provident Mutual/Aviva appear to have lost, kept for 
their own benefit or otherwise misappropriated those funds. 
4. She said repeated reference to the absence of an obligation to keep records for more 
than six years was a red herring given the longer-term nature of pension investments 
and such an obligation shouldnt be turned into a shield against malfeasance. And a 
pension provider which chose not to keep records needed to assume the risks of 
doing so and not pass those risks onto investors, who have kept records. 
5. In terms of the potential early refunding of the contribution Ms W disagreed that the 
documents and correspondence she held in addition to the SEPC didnt add anything 
to the evidence. These demonstrated that neither she, her broker, or HMRC had 
been notified by Provident Mutual of any issue with the contribution or refund of it. 
The broker was a Trustee of the Scheme and would undoubtedly have known about 
any problem and was involved in subsequent calculations carried out for Ms W to 
maximise payment of pension contributions before she left the UK. 
6. If the contribution had been refunded at a later date, as also speculated, she said she 
would expect some entry to be made against the Scheme records, but Aviva had 
confirmed that the entry about her joining the Scheme was the only reference to her 
in the entire 256 page file. 
7. In terms of her forgetting about a refund, she said she did not rely on memory but 
kept carefully maintained records. This included details from inception of the other 13 
pension contributions she had made in the same way between 1986 and 1989. Had 
there been a refund she would have retained a record of it. And she would have not 
called for a refund as at no time had she had a requirement for the funds, which were 
invested for old age or for an inheritance for her heirs which is why she had 
consolidated her other pensions into one SIPP and hadnt drawn on any of the funds.
8. She said that Provident Mutual had lost or misappropriated the contribution, and had 
failed to account to her for her money, was consistent with the evidence and did not 
rely on unsupported speculation. 
As Ms W didnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision I issued my provisional decision on 1 March 2023, I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint. 
It isnt possible to know exactly what has happened here. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that 
is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances
I am mindful about not further adding to the speculation about what might have happened 
without having some basis for that opinion. This includes some thoughts about the U/L 
abbreviation on the Scheme membership register which might point to some different system 
being used in respect of Ms Ws contribution. I raised this and some other queries with 
Aviva. But despite being given significant time to respond, it hasnt fully done so. 
Taking all the evidence into account and what I think is most likely to have happened Im 
persuaded by Ms Ws arguments. The arrangement of the Scheme in question is relatively 
unusual and the records Aviva has discovered lack detail and predate much of the financial 
services regulation now in place. But Ms W herself has very good records. And taking all the 
evidence together I think Ms W did make the contribution. And I think it is highly unlikely that 
it was refunded and also unlikely that it was subsequently transferred. 
Several theories have been proposed by Aviva to explain what has happened. Ill consider 
these in turn.
Avivas conclusions
It says it has conducted a thorough search of its records and theres no evidence of the 
policy.
Aviva has concluded that the policy must have either been refunded, or more likely 
transferred away many years ago. It states that it is unlikely to have detailed records going 
back more than seven years after a plan was terminated, due to FCA and data protection 
requirements. 
It agrees Ms W has good records, and says it seems unusual that she didnt query not 
receiving annual statements in the past. 
The contribution was paid and refunded
There is confusion here about payment dates which Ms W has noted herself. The counter 
cheque she drew from her bank for the combined contribution of £5,800 payable to her 
broker is dated 30 November 1987. This is the day after the date entered on the SEPC. This 
seems irregular and it would be Provident Mutual that generated the SEPC rather than the 
broker. It may be that the broker registered Ms Ws membership in order to catch the 
November month end, with the premium to follow a few days later. As this didnt happen with 
the smaller contribution sent to a different provider, which was invested a few days later. 
Despite this irregularity I think the SEPC and correspondence both before and several 
months after this are strong evidence that the contribution was made. The SEPC was an 
important document, effectively a tax relief certificate from the pension provider proving that 
a contribution had been paid, to enable tax relief to be claimed from HMRC. Consequently, refunding this type of pension contribution was far from straightforward and required the 
agreement of HMRC. That would certainly involve Ms W and most likely her accountants. It 
would have impacted her subsequent tax planning arrangements before she left the UK.  
Ms W says this wasnt the case and she has shown detailed records about her financial 
affairs including subsequent HMRC correspondence which indicates the contribution amount 
in question was paid to the satisfaction of HMRC. And it was considered in HMRC 
correspondence over unused pension relief for Ms W to top up her contributions before she 
left the UK in 1989. This strongly suggests it hadnt been refunded. And as Ms W has said if 
the policy was refunded, I would expect the Scheme membership register to be updated 
accordingly. 
So, Im satisfied the contribution was paid and, on balance, wasnt refunded.
Was the policy transferred
I accept Aviva has limited records and if the policy had been transferred many years ago it 
might not hold records about that any longer. But based on the evidence that is available I 
think it is unlikely the policy has been transferred. 
Ms W emigrated in 1989 and still resides outside the UK. She says she didnt, until recently, 
transfer her other pension arrangements. There was another plan with Provident Mutual 
which Aviva has found some records of. It says this was terminated on 15 May 2013. It is 
interesting that it still has some records of this arrangement  one that was conventionally 
arranged directly with Provident Mutual rather than through the auspices of the 
broker/trustee as for the missing Scheme. 
There is some evidence indicating Ms Ws membership of the Scheme as late as 2009 when 
she received at letter, which at the time, meant little to her. This was from SBJ Benefit 
Consultants Limited, who had taken over the trusteeship from her broker in 2005. Ill 
consider this evidence further below. 
I think it is unlikely that Ms W would have decided to transfer this Scheme in isolation, retain 
no records about it and then forgotten doing so. This would be inconsistent with the 
methodical manner she appears to manage her other financial affairs. As Ms W has 
provided copies of letters about the Scheme from her broker, the application she completed, 
a copy of the cheque used to pay the two contributions at the time and letters to and from 
HMRC over the same. 
Avivas investigation 
Ive considered Avivas investigation. Initially this seemed most thorough, particularly in the 
email summaries compiled by the staff involved. These raise a number of pertinent 
questions about Ms W contribution, what might have happened to it and the operation of this 
type of Scheme. The summary seems well judged and balanced. 
But I havent seen any proper clarification on the internal queries raised which enabled Aviva 
to conclude in its final response to Ms W that:
that after a full and thorough investigation of our systems it had been unable to 
locate the policy
 and as such that was the end of the matter. Amongst the queries that were raised in the summary email were the mechanics of the 
SEPC being issued, the operation of this type of Scheme, and that:
Actuarial,  have said that it appears that the policy was not set up (though they do 
not explain what basis this is on).  
And the letter Miss W received from SBJ Benefit Consultants Limited, mentioned above, 
which supports her membership of the Scheme as late as 2009, is discussed but then 
dismissed. I think without proper explanation. The letter dated 1 January 2009, advised her, 
as a client, that it will be taken over by another business in a few days. Ms W says shed had 
no dealings with SBJ before this and didnt subsequently. 
In its investigation Aviva confirmed that SBJ had become the Trustee of the Scheme from 
2005. But the investigation notes conclude that I think this is in relation to one of the other 
investments set up through her broker. But no explanation of why or what this arrangement 
could be is given. If Ms W had never joined the Scheme or had transferred out, Id expect 
the Scheme records to be updated and wouldnt expect the Trustees to be sending this type 
of correspondence to former members.
The U/L abbreviation in the Scheme membership register
The notation by Ms Ws name on the pension Scheme membership register is U/L and 
there has been speculation as to what this means. I think it is important as it potentially 
explains how her contribution could have been lost. 
I think U/L does stand for the commonly used abbreviation in the pension industry for unit 
linked. It describes the type of underlying investment to be held  a unitised investment fund 
rather than the traditional conventional with profit investments that were more common in the 
1980s. 
I think this for the following reasons:
As Ms W has pointed out she completed an application form dated 29 November 
1987 headed:
 PROPOSAL FOR A UNIT LINKED RETIREMENT ANNUITY 
 and the investment is to be 100% in the Managed fund.
In its letter to Ms W of 16 November 1987 her broker (and administrator and trustee 
of the Scheme) recommends she split her total pension investment of £5,800 
between unit linked managed funds and conventional with profits funds in line with 
her existing portfolio. It further recommends Provident Mutual for the unit linked 
investment in view of its recent outperformance during the October 1987 stock 
market crash. 
The letter continues that the broker had negotiated the Scheme with Provident 
Mutual, and summarises some benefits of the arrangement including (my emphasis 
in bold):
The contract now allows investment into Provident Mutuals Unit Linked Funds 
I think this is significant because in 1987, a unit linked investment was still a fairly novel way 
of doing things for traditional life and pension providers like Provident Mutual. It may be the 
broker Scheme had been in place for a number of years and all other members were invested in with profits, hence the U/L annotation in the Scheme register solely against Ms 
Ws entry.
 
And its likely this involved some different type of record keeping requirement or procedure. 
The brokers recommendation letter mentions another benefit of the Scheme being:
On retirement, policyholders are granted more favourable annuity rates
A conventional with profit arrangement offering a guaranteed annuity rate might well have 
required some input from Provident Mutuals actuarial team in terms of calculating a 
minimum fund value at retirement date and so on. That would not be applicable to a unit 
linked policy where no guarantees about future fund value would be provided. That might 
explain the comment in Avivas own notes:
Actuarial,  have said that it appears that the policy was not set up
 And it might be that such a unit linked investment required establishing and recording in a 
different manner to the rest of the members of the Scheme and might explain why Ms W 
didnt receive annual statements.
I raised these points with Aviva. It did provide some further internal emails relating to the 
investigation. These confirmed that no answer to the internal queries had been found and 
there was no evidence the plan was set up. It referred my further queries about guaranteed 
benefits and the charges that would have been applied on this level of premium to its 
actuarial department. 
But Aviva did agree that if the plan was unit linked, then actuarial might not have been 
involved at the time. And that it may well have been held on a different system. But is said it 
had searched all records and found no trace of the plan. 
As no response from the actuarial department has been provided and in the absence of 
further evidence or comment from Aviva my thoughts at this stage are as follows:
1. The contribution was paid
2. It wasnt refunded
3. It wasnt transferred
4. The nature of the investment into a unit linked fund, was a sufficient departure from 
the operation of the rest of the Scheme administered by Ms Ws broker and Provident 
Mutual, it called for a different administration channel or route. And unfortunately, the 
ongoing administration of the investment fell between the cracks in these different 
systems
5. And if the plan was never set up properly it might explain why no record of it existed
6. This would also explain why no annual statements were provided to Ms W
So, I think on the balance of probability the contribution was paid and not transferred and the 
most likely explanation for the loss is that it wasnt properly set up at outset. And despite the 
absence of annual statements there was no reason for Ms W to be concerned about any 
problem given that multiple other arrangements put in place for her by the same broker all 
operated successfully. 
As I think Aviva has made an error and likely lost the contribution Ms W paid, it is fair that 
she be put back in the position she should be in. 
Putting things rightWhat I think Aviva should do is calculate what the single premium contribution of £4,060 
invested on the date entered on the SEPC into the Provident Mutual Managed Fund and its 
successors would now be worth and what the current transfer value of this policy would have 
been. 
Aviva should establish what charges would have been applicable at the time.
These may be some sort of allocation rate, which was variable depending on the size of the 
premium paid. At lower premiums the allocation rate could be less than 100%, in effect a 
straight up-front charge. Followed by a bid offer spread, typically 5%. Aviva should confirm 
what the charges are in the calculations. 
The notional current transfer value of Ms Ws policy should be paid into her SIPP to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Aviva is unable to calculate a notional value, Aviva will need to determine a fair value for 
Ms W's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index. Ive chosen this benchmark as Ms W at the time would have wanted capital 
growth and was investing in a unit linked policy. I think she would have been prepared to 
take some risk given being still many years away from retirement.
This benchmark doesnt make allowances for charges, so unless Aviva can provide 
evidence of different charges, average annual charges of 1% per year should be assumed. 
If Aviva is unable to pay the compensation into Ms W's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Ms W wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms W's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected retirement age. Ms W lives abroad and I dont know whether she is a 
UK resident for tax purposes or will be when she retires. 
If she is or will be, its reasonable to assume that Ms W is likely to be a higher rate taxpayer 
at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 40%. However, if Ms W would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 30%.
If she isnt, she likely would still have to pay some tax abroad. This might be less or more 
than in the UK. I invite Ms Ws comments around her tax position, i.e. whether she is still a 
UK tax resident or might become one again in retirement and if not what tax shed be 
expected to pay on UK pension income in the country where she currently lives which I will 
consider. Im mindful this might be complicated and not easy to answer. For this reason, Im 
currently minded to allow the UK income tax reduction of 30% as set out above. 
If either Aviva or Ms W dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, they must let us know 
as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified, and Ms W receives appropriate 
compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this assumption once any final decision 
has been issued on the complaint.Pay Ms W £300 for the distress and frustration this matter has caused her.
As I said above its possible the plan had guaranteed annuity rates. If so, these rates would 
have been likely somewhat higher than current annuity rates. If it had guaranteed annuity 
rates and Ms Ws plan value was now more than £30,000, she would need advice to transfer 
it to a SIPP as upon transfer this annuity rate would be lost. If Ms W was considering an 
annuity, I would be minded to ask Aviva to reinstate the policy with any applicable 
guaranteed annuity rates and allow her to take this annuity.
However, given what Ms W has told us about her plans to transfer to a SIPP and her wider 
financial circumstances Im assuming she doesnt intend to take an annuity whatever the 
annuity rate. And she doesnt rely on the income from this plan. So, the above is based on 
this assumption. However, if I misunderstood and Ms W has concerns around this, she 
should let me know in response to this decision.
I asked both parties to now send me any further information or comments they would like me 
to consider.
Response to provisional decision
Ms W agreed with my decision, and made a number of points in respect of how the matter 
should be put right:
1. She confirmed her preferred option would be to transfer the value of the Scheme to 
her existing SIPP and that she had no interest in buying an annuity.
2. That the payment and acceptance of the contribution by Aviva in 1987 had created a 
vested right that didnt depend on it having set aside and invested any physical pot 
of money and that this contractual obligation should be honoured, enabling a 
transfer to be made. 
3. She confirmed she wasnt a UK tax resident and that her tax advisers had confirmed 
that the payment of a contribution for her by Aviva, if possible, potentially had tax 
implications in her country of residence as well as reporting requirements which 
would incur costs.
4. That her tax advisers had confirmed the payment of the appropriate value to her 
directly would also have both reporting and tax implications which would incur further 
costs. 
5. And that a direct payment would also not meet her primary objective of continuing to 
invest her UK pension arrangements. 
6. She said she had incurred tax advice costs of around £375 in establishing the above 
details.  
Aviva also accepted my provisional decision. It said it would make a transfer payment to Ms 
Ws SIPP as her preferred option on her acceptance of my final decision. It said it didnt think 
any GAR applied on the Scheme as it had located a document that said that any pension 
would be determined by investment conditions at the time. It said it thought Ms Ws 
professional costs seemed high and that it would comment further on these, but it hasnt 
done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.As set out in my provisional decision I think the contribution was paid and wasnt refunded or 
transferred and that errors in the setting up of the policy resulted in it being misplaced. So, 
its fair that Ms W be now put as closely as possible into the position she should have been 
in but for the error.
Aviva has agreed to arrange a transfer to Ms Ws UK SIPP. This best meets her ongoing 
financial planning objectives and minimises other tax considerations arising from her non-UK 
tax residency. So, I think this is a fair outcome.
Because Aviva hasnt confirmed if it is able to calculate the value of the actual plan to make 
the transfer, Ive set out an alternative option below. Which I think is fair in the circumstances 
if it cant.  
Ms W says she has also had to consider taxation issues in her country of residence and 
incurred professional costs of around £375 in doing so. The tax issues around any redress 
payment being made to her personally or as a contribution, are complex. Ms W has provided 
an overview of them, and I agree they are sufficiently complex to make expert advice 
essential. So, whilst our service doesnt usually award professional costs, I think it is 
reasonable to do so here. Thats because I think these costs were only incurred due to the 
error made. And any taxation issues needed to be considered to ensure fair redress was 
paid if Aviva was unable to pay a transfer into her UK SIPP, as it has subsequently 
confirmed it can.
I also think Ms W has suffered distress and frustration over what has happened, and it is fair 
that Aviva pays compensation for this. 
Putting things right
Using the charges applicable to the Scheme, Aviva should calculate what the single 
premium contribution of £4,060 invested on the date entered on the SEPC into the Provident 
Mutual Managed Fund and its successors would now be worth and what the current transfer 
value of this policy would be. This is the notional value.
If Aviva is unable to calculate a notional value, Aviva will need to determine a fair value for 
Ms W's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index. Ive chosen this benchmark as Ms W at the time would have wanted capital 
growth and was investing in a unit linked policy. I think she would have been prepared to 
take some risk given being still many years away from retirement.
This benchmark doesnt make allowances for charges, so unless Aviva can provide 
evidence of different charges, average annual charges of 1% per year should be assumed. 
It should then transfer the notional or fair value calculated to Ms Ws existing UK SIPP in the 
normal manner. 
Aviva should provide Ms W with a simple calculation of how it has arrived at the notional or 
fair value calculated. 
Pay Ms W £375 towards her professional costs for taxation advice around matters relating to 
redress. 
Pay Ms W £300 for the distress and frustration this matter has caused her.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to calculate the notional, or if not possible, the fair 
value of Ms Ws pension contribution as explained above and pay this as a transfer to her 
UK SIPP. 
I further direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Ms W £375 towards her professional 
costs for taxation advice around matters relating to redress. 
I further direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Ms W £300 for the distress and 
frustration caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman