DRN-3080513
The complaint
Mr B complains about the support he received from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS) during his time of financial difficulty due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr B entered into a 48 month personal contract purchase agreement (PCP) for 
a used car. The cash price of the car was £33,315. An advance payment was made of 
£11,400 which was made up of a part exchange and a cash deposit. The monthly 
instalments were £312 followed by an optional final payment of £13,822.
On 27 April 2020, Mr B contacted VWFS to advise due to the Covid-19 pandemic his salary 
would reduce by 20% therefore he would experience financial difficulty meeting the monthly 
instalments. He requested a three month payment deferral and the agreement was 
temporarily suspended. According to Mr B, he was told that the agreement would be 
extended by three months.
In June 2020, Mr B received a modified agreement from VWFS which set out that in order 
for the payment deferral to be set up he had to agree to pay an increased monthly instalment 
of £343 for the remaining 35 months followed by the final payment. Mr B was upset by this 
as he said it contradicted what he was previously told in April 2020. He said this increased 
amount would make the agreement unaffordable. 
Mr B chose not to agree to the modified agreement and according to him he felt he had no 
alternative but to sell the car to avoid further financial difficulty. In June 2020, he paid £625 
to bring the account up to date and expressed his intentions to sell the car. He requested a 
settlement quote but there was a delay in VWFS providing it. Mr B complained about the 
situation.
VWFS said in order to support consumers following a payment deferral there were two 
options, 
1. Fixed term- the instalments would increase and the term remains the same;
2. Extended term- the agreement is extended by the duration of the payment deferral 
and the instalments would increase.    
They said in both options the monthly instalments would increase and having regard to the 
amount of time left on Mr Bs agreement (more than 18 months), they decided option one 
was the most suitable for him. However given the trouble and upset caused and the level of 
service Mr B had experienced, they paid him £625 as a gesture of goodwill.
Since VWFS final response in July 2020, Mr B has sold the car. The agreement was settled 
in full in July 2020. However he has complained payments were taken from his account in 
July and August 2020. After some back and forth, this was later refunded in August 2020. He 
also said there were delays in updating his credit file and he continued to receive arrears 
letters. Overall he said the situation with VWFS has been handled poorly, he had incurred 
financial losses (estimated over £10,000) and it has caused him trouble and upset. 
Mr B referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator recommended the case wasnt 
upheld. They accepted VWFS gave incorrect information in April 2020 about the payment 
deferral and said they shouldve considered his individual circumstances and extended the 
agreement. However they didnt feel VWFS were responsible for the financial losses as 
reported by Mr B. They concluded their goodwill offer of £625 was reasonable given what 
had happened. 
Mr B disagreed and maintained his position. In summary he said:
- VWFS gave misleading information about the payment deferral in April 2020 as he 
was led to believe the agreement would be extended;
- The increased monthly instalments would be unaffordable to him;
- VWFS provided no assistance given his financial difficulty, it was either agree to the 
modified agreement or pay the arrears;
- He only had five days to agree to the modified agreement to get the payment 
deferral;
- VWFS were acting in their own interest rather than putting consumers first and they 
were not following the guidance of the financial regulator. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome of the investigator and broadly for the same 
reasons. I believe VWFS has done enough to put things right, Ill explain why.
At this point, I wish to stress that Ive summarised the details of the complaint in less detail 
than Mr B or VWFS. No discourtesy is intended but Im satisfied both parties are aware of 
the circumstances of the case. Rest assured Ive reviewed the entire file and carefully 
considered the submissions by both parties. Although I may not address all points raised this 
doesnt mean Ive ignored them. However this decision will focus on the issues I consider to 
be key in reaching a fair outcome.
As this is a regulated consumer credit agreement with VWFS, this is a complaint our service 
can consider.
Payment deferral
The UK government imposed a nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic on 23 
March 2020. Based on VWFS contact notes, I can see Mr B told them in April 2020 he 
would receive a reduction in his salary because of it and he would experience financial 
difficulty.In instances of consumers facing financial difficulty, the relevant guidance that I would 
expect VWFS to follow is found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) which says A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. So Ive taken this into account when 
reviewing this case. 
Additionally, at the time of Mr Bs call in April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
published its Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: draft temporary guidance for firms. 
This set out what rule changes it was intending to make to deal with the impact of Covid-19. 
The guidance stated that a firm should grant a customer whose finances had been 
negatively impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic, a payment deferral for three months unless 
the firm determines (acting reasonably) its obviously not in the customers interests to do. 
The intention behind the guidance was to ensure consumers who wouldve otherwise been 
fine, wouldnt be negatively impacted by Covid-19. In this case, its clear Mr Bs financial 
difficulties were a result of the pandemic so Im satisfied the guidance applied to him 
meaning a payment deferral shouldve been offered to him which is what happened here. 
Mr B said he was told during the call in April 2020 that the agreement would be extended by 
the duration of the payment deferral but he later found out this was incorrect, instead the 
term would remain the same and his monthly instalments would increase. VWFS has 
provided a copy of this call. Having listened to it, I note the advisor says the following about 
the payment deferral:
After the payment holiday, we will get in contact with yourself and we will arrange what 
would be best to get the account back up to date, whether that would be paying a little bit 
more each month if youre happy to or just extending the contract by the months that were 
affected. 
Mr B said he understood and he expressed his intention to pay back the missing payments 
but said he would have to consider his finances and the needs of his family once the 
payment deferral ends. Im satisfied Mr B was told there were two possibilities when the 
payment deferral came to an end so I cant agree he was told it would definitely be 
extended. That said, I can understand why he was of the impression VWFS would discuss 
with him a suitable option of repayment and he would be able to choose one of the two 
options. But it would appear the advisor was talking in generic terms, not specific to Mr B. 
Nevertheless, I can appreciate Mr Bs upset when he was later told in order to have a 
payment deferral, his agreement would be modified and his monthly payments would 
increase during the term of the agreement. 
Due to the impact of Covid-19, the operations and resources of VWFS along with many 
other financial businesses wouldve been severely impacted. I have to bear in mind under 
such pressure and following the FCAs guidance in April 2020, VWFS wouldve had to 
quickly set up immediate support for their consumers and work through the impact of the 
same in the long term.
Ive read VWFS correspondence to Mr B which outlined the payment deferral and the 
proposed modification of the agreement in order to pay back the missed payments. I note it 
was sent on 25 June 2020 which is approximately two months after Mr Bs initial 
conversation in April 2020.  It confirms the monthly instalments would increase up to £343 
which was an increase of £30.92 per month. It explains in order to receive the payment 
deferral, he must sign the modified agreement and return it within five calendar days. If he 
doesnt agree to it or the signed modified agreement isnt received within ten calendar days, 
the agreement will be unsuspended and the direct debits reinstated. It goes on to say any 
payments and/or arrears would be due unless contact is made within the next ten days to 
make other arrangements. 
I find the purpose of the FCAs guidance was to provide temporary and immediate support to 
their consumers who were struggling financially due to the pandemic. I dont find it fair nor 
reasonable that in order to receive the payment deferral, Mr B would be required to agree to 
a modified agreement within five days and commit to paying increased monthly instalments 
at a time where hes experiencing such financial uncertainty. Like he had mentioned during 
the call in April 2020, he would need to consider his financial circumstances at the end of the 
payment deferral. It would be difficult for him to predict what that wouldve looked like and 
the extent of the impact on his financial circumstances due to the pandemic.
In July 2020, the FCA published further guidance which gave more clarity about the 
expectations on financial firms including what happens at the end of the payment deferral. 
Although it wasnt in place at the time of the call in April 2020 or the proposed modified 
agreement in June 2020, I believe its reasonable for me to take it into account as it outlines 
the FCAs intention. 
In regards to what happens at the end of the deferral period, it says: 
Firms should take reasonable steps to contact their customers in good time before the end 
of an initial payment deferral period about resuming payments and to engage with them 
about their options when it expires
It also says:
Where a customer can resume full repayments after the initial payment deferral, but is 
unable to pay the deferred amounts immediately and in full, the firm should allow them to 
repay the deferred amounts over the remaining term of the agreement or allow a longer 
period for repayment. The firm should consider what is most in the customers interests.
 
For example, where appropriate, the firm could lengthen the time during which the customer 
is allowed to make repayments by: 
 the length of the initial payment deferral or 
 a period of time that enables the customer to keep the same contractual payments they 
had prior to the payment deferral.
Based on the above, I think its fair to say the FCAs intention was where a payment deferral 
had been granted and its due to come to an end, businesses like VWFS should work with 
consumers about how best to pay the missing sums. However this doesnt appear to be the 
approach VWFS applied in this case.
Given the large number of consumers that is likely to have requested a payment deferral, I 
can understand why VWFS made the operational decision to provide two possibilities of 
repayment depending on how long was left on the agreement. It wouldnt have been 
reasonable nor practical to assess the needs of each individual consumer. However I 
wouldnt have expected such an approach of repayment to be applied and had to be agreed 
to by Mr B in order for the payment deferral to be granted. I believe it wouldve been fairer to 
grant the payment deferral and as it came to an end to communicate with him about the 
proposed repayment options. At this point, its most likely Mr B wouldve had a better 
understanding of his financial circumstances and his ability to repay.
 
For some consumers paying increased monthly rentals during the term of the agreement 
may have been agreeable but I cant ignore the fact that for others, like Mr B, this would 
cause financial hardship. Where it was clear this would be the case, I would expect VWFS to 
assess the individual circumstances and provide appropriate support. As mentioned above, the modified agreement says if Mr B doesnt wish to proceed with the 
payment deferral the agreement will be unsuspended and the direct debits reinstated. It also 
said he should contact them as there are alternative support options which may be available. 
Unhappy with the proposed modified agreement, Mr B calls VWFS a few days later in June 
2020 and Ive listened to these calls. He expresses hes not happy with it as it makes the 
agreement unaffordable, he also says he will have to sell the car as a result. However I can 
hear the advisor say if he doesnt agree to the modified agreement, he can speak to the 
collections department about paying the missed payments. However Mr B doesnt indicate 
he wants this to happen. Having considered the proposed modified agreement and the call 
in June 2020, Im satisfied it was made clear to Mr B that there were other options available 
should he wish to explore them so I cant say VWFS acted unfairly. It would appear Mr B had 
already made his mind up to sell the car because later that day he asks for a settlement 
quote,  paid the two months arrears and went on to settle the agreement in July 2020. 
Overall, while I recognise VWFS efforts to offer support to Mr B in line with the FCAs 
guidance, I dont believe the support was appropriate given his individual circumstances. 
Mr B was looking for temporary and immediate support during his time of financial difficulty 
however I dont find it reasonable such support is given on the condition of him committing to 
a modified agreement. It wouldve been fairer to grant him the payment deferral and as it 
came to an end to engage with him about the options to repay and if their proposal wasnt 
affordable to make it clear that alternative support was available. 
That said, I am satisfied they did make it clear that if the modified agreement wasnt 
agreeable, Mr B should contact them as further support was available. As there is no 
evidence this happened, I cant say VWFS acted unfairly, nor can I hold them responsible for 
any resulting financial loss. 
Other 
Having reviewed the case, its clear the level of customer service Mr B received from VWFS 
is below the standard that I would expect. This includes receiving conflicting information 
regarding the settlement quotation, delays to amend his credit file and delays to the return of 
two instalments, etc. Having seen the amount of correspondence between Mr B and VWFS, 
its clear this situation was having a negative impact on him and causing upset and concern. 
I note VWFS has already paid £625 compensation as a gesture of goodwill for the level of 
service up to the point the agreement was settled, Im aware it didnt include the later issues. 
However when considering the overall circumstances and the impact this situation has had 
on Mr B, I believe £625 is a significant sum, it equates to around two monthly instalments 
and is likely to be more than I wouldve awarded had VWFS not made an offer of 
compensation. Taking everything into account, I believe VWFS has done enough to put 
things right so I wont be asking them to pay anything more.
 
I understand Mr B will be disappointed by my decision but I hope he accepts my findings.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman