DRN-3594994
The complaint
Mr T complains that Target Servicing Limited wouldnt allow him to redeem his help to buy 
loan, which meant that the sale of his property fell through.
What happened
Mr T bought a flat with the assistance of the help to buy scheme in 2012.
The help to buy scheme is a government scheme to support home ownership. In addition to 
the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a borrower takes a shared equity loan funded by 
the government to reduce the amount of cash deposit required. Mr Ts property is in 
England, and so the lender of his help to buy shared equity loan is Homes England (formerly 
known as the Homes and Communities Agency), an executive agency and 
non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and 
Communities. Homes England lends a percentage of the property purchase price to the 
borrower to enable them to buy a home.
Help to buy shared equity loans are interest free for the first five years. From year six 
onwards, interest is payable. Help to buy shared equity loans are secured by way of a 
second charge over the property, ranking behind the main mortgage. This means that the 
loan must be repaid at the end of its term (generally 25 years)  but if the property is sold 
before then, it must be repaid on sale of the property. A borrower can also elect to repay the 
loan at any time, even if the property is not being sold.
In either case, what the borrower must pay back is calculated by reference to the value of 
the property at the time they want to sell it or otherwise repay the shared equity loan. So, 
depending on how property prices have changed in the meantime, the borrower may have to 
pay back more or less than the amount originally borrowed. For example, in this case, Mr T 
borrowed 10% of the purchase price as a shared equity loan. So, if he wanted to sell his 
property, he would have to pay back 10% of the value of his property at the time of sale to 
redeem his shared equity loan. His help to buy shared equity loan funded part of the deposit 
which he used to buy the property alongside a mortgage from a mainstream mortgage 
lender.
As I explain in more detail below, a help to buy shared equity loan is not a financial product 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And Homes England is not a regulated 
firm within the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. Formally, this type of 
lending is known as a shared equity loan, though theyre commonly referred to as help to 
buy loans. A help to buy loan is simply a shared equity loan offered through the help to buy 
scheme.
Homes England has appointed Target Servicing Limited to administer help to buy loans on 
its behalf. Target Servicing Limited is a regulated firm within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and is therefore the respondent to this complaint. The extent to which it 
is responsible for the matters complained about by Mr T is in dispute, and Ill say more about 
that below.
In 2019, Mr T needed to move abroad for work. So he decided to sell his flat. He put it on the 
market and received an offer to buy it. And he applied to Target to redeem the help to buy 
loan in June 2019. Both the help to buy loan and his main mortgage would be repaid with the 
proceeds of sale of the property.
Target sent Mr T an email explaining the process for redeeming his loan. It included a link to 
its customer information pack giving more details on the redemption process, and said that 
Mr T would need to complete and return various forms and pay a £250 fee. Target said Mr T 
should request a formal valuation from a surveyor who was a member of the Royal 
Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS). It said the redemption figure would be based on 
the higher of the valuation or the agreed sale price. In either case, Mr T would need to pay 
back 10% of this amount - the same proportion of the original purchase price that he had 
borrowed.
Mr T instructed a RICS surveyor to value his property. The surveyor completed the valuation 
on 10 July 2019. The surveyor said the property was worth £198,500 (the same as the 
agreed sale price). Within the report the surveyor said that the property had elements of 
composite cladding.
Mr T sent a copy of the valuation to Target and asked it to agree a redemption figure and 
provide a redemption statement.
Target did not initially respond. When it did, in August 2019, it told Mr T it was unable to 
provide him with a redemption figure.
Mr T continued to ask Target for a redemption figure in the following months, but none was 
forthcoming. In the absence of being able to redeem the loan and remove Homes Englands 
charge from the property, Mr Ts sale fell through. But he still had to move out of the property 
and move abroad. He complains that he remains unable to sell his property, and is having to 
cover the costs of a property he cant live in and cant sell, in addition to the costs of where 
he is living now. He wants to be able to sell his property, and wants to be compensated for 
the losses arising from the delay.
Our investigator upheld his complaint. Target didnt agree. In summary, it argued that while 
the Financial Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction to consider a complaint about how Target 
itself treated Mr T (for example, as regards any delays in the redemption process that Target 
was itself responsible for), we do not have jurisdiction to consider anything to do with the 
terms of the shared equity loan itself, given that it was not a regulated mortgage contract or 
a regulated credit agreement, and given that Target is not the lender. It also said that it had 
simply acted as it was instructed to do by Homes England. The issues that Mr T is 
complaining about are the result of actions taken (or not taken) by Homes England for which 
Target is not responsible. Target offered to put a redress proposal to Homes England for it to 
consider, but did not accept that it was itself liable to him for what had happened or that this 
complaint should be upheld.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint. Although I broadly 
agreed with the investigators outcome, my reasons were more detailed, and so I wanted to 
give the parties a further chance for comment before making my final decision.
My provisional decision
As I explain below, neither party had anything further to add to my provisional decision. For 
that reason my provisional decision is largely the same as my final decision. And so I wont 
repeat my provisional findings in full. But in summary  and for reasons which are essentially 
the same as those I give below  I said I was minded to find that:Target, as a regulated entity engaged in the regulated activity of debt administration, 
is responsible for answering this complaint;
I therefore have jurisdiction to consider the complaint;
As the regulated debt administrator, Target has obligations to Mr T and regulatory 
obligations in its own right;
Those obligations include performing the lenders duties, and exercising the lenders 
rights, under the terms of the loan agreement;
Target is also required to act fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances;
On the facts of this case, Mr T made a proper request to redeem his help to buy loan 
and, once the valuation was carried out, was entitled to do so;
However, that did not happen  because the lender would not accept the valuation;
Target was responsible for ensuring that Mr T was able to redeem his loan but failed 
to do so;
That was not fair and reasonable in all the circumstances;
Its fair and reasonable to hold Target responsible for Mr Ts losses that flow from the 
failure to allow him to redeem as he was entitled to do.
I set out how I expected Target to put matters right.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr T accepted my provisional decision. Target did not make any further argument or provide 
any further evidence.
My further enquiries
I then made further enquiries of Mr T to confirm the detail of the financial losses that flowed 
from the failure to redeem in time. This was to gather updated financial information, to allow 
Target to comment on the detailed redress before I make a final decision.
I therefore set out a detailed breakdown of the financial losses to date which I was minded to 
direct Target to pay Mr T. I sent that breakdown to both Target and Mr T, inviting further 
comment. Ive set out more detail on this below.
Mr T accepted the redress calculations I set out. Target did not reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again what I said in my provisional decision. Neither party provided any 
further evidence, or made any further arguments. Ive reached the same conclusions as I 
provisionally reached, and I set out my reasons below. 
In its response to the investigators initial findings, Target disagreed with the extent of the 
Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction to consider Mr Ts complaint in its response to 
the investigators view. So Ill firstly explain why I consider that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service does have jurisdiction to consider Mr Ts complaint against Target. Ill then set out 
what I consider Targets responsibilities towards Mr T were in the circumstances of this case, 
and why I consider it is fair and reasonable to hold Target responsible for compensating 
Mr T for the loss he suffered as a result of the delays in the redemption process. Finally, Ill 
set out what I think Target needs to do to put matters right.But before I do that, Ill set out a more detailed timeline of events. The timeline is taken 
primarily from Targets internal notes and correspondence with Mr T and with Homes 
England and is not, as far as Im aware, in dispute.
Timeline of events
In early 2019, Mr T marketed his property and received an offer to buy it. As it was 
necessary to get agreement to redeem the help to buy loan, and to agree how much Mr T 
would need to pay, Mr T contacted Target to notify it of his intention to redeem the loan.
Mr T rang Target on 27 June 2019. On the same day, Target sent him a link to a customer 
information pack. In its covering email it said
To accurately process your request, we require the following:
A copy of Form A (if you are selling) or Form B (if you are not selling) 
A recent valuation of the property which must be independently performed by a 
RICS qualified surveyor
A memorandum of sale if you are selling the property
An administration fee of £250.
Upon completion of the above we will complete your request within 7-10 working days. In 
line with the terms and conditions of the mortgage, the redemption figure will be 
calculated on the higher of the following:
The sale price of the property 
The valuation of the property at the time you repay the loan
Mr T instructed a RICS qualified surveyor to value the property, and the surveyor reported 
on 10 July 2019. Mr T sent a copy of the valuation to Homes England by uploading it to 
Targets online portal. Its not clear exactly what date he or his solicitors did this on, but on 
16 August 2019 he called Target to say he had done so. The valuation was dated 
10 July 2019, and Mr Ts Form A was signed and dated by him on 13 July 2019.
The valuation gave a value for the property. It said that the property had elements of 
cladding, but did not say that the cladding presented any concern or risk, or required any 
further action, or that it affected or qualified the valuation in any way.
On 20 August 2019, Target emailed Homes England about the valuation, saying this is a 
potential cladding issue case. Please can you confirm on how I should proceed. 
The same day, Mr T called and asked about the valuation. Target told him that it was unable 
to provide a redemption figure as the valuation mentioned cladding. It also sent an email to 
his solicitors which said:
Unfortunately we are unable to process your request as the valuation report 
mentions elements of cladding. Because of this, we have to relay this case to the 
specialist department to advise us of the next steps to follow. Please note that once 
we have a response we will contact you and your client.
It seems  though this wasnt made clear in the email  that the specialist department 
means Homes England and not a department of Target.Mr T and his solicitor continued to chase Target. On 4 September 2019, Target sent a 
further email saying
 the purpose of this email is to make you aware of the most recent discussion. The 
account currently is with our specialist team in relation to the cladding that has been 
mentioned within the valuation. I understand that [Mr T] has contacted before and he 
has advised me that he was given timeframes that have not been met, which has 
been frustrating for him. Whilst I understand both yourself and [Mr T] are looking for a 
timeframe, I have been unable to give one, but have confirmed that my aim is to help 
support this situation and try and do what I can to reach a conclusion as soon as 
possible. Please be aware that we are in contact with the Specialist Department to 
understand where we are in the process, what else still needs to be done if anything, 
and if there is any timeframe we can put forward. Once this has been defined, we will 
get in contact with yourselves
Again, there is no indication given that the specialist department was in fact Homes 
England.
The solicitors continued to chase Target. And on 19 September 2019 Mr T called to say that 
his buyer was on the point of pulling out. He asked to speak to the specialist department 
himself but Target was unable to put him through.
On 19 September 2019, Homes England instructed its own valuer. It appears that this valuer 
visited Mr Ts property at the end of that month. Its not clear if the valuer gave a valuation 
report to Homes England, but if so it was never provided to Target or to Mr T and I havent 
seen it.
Mr T continued to call Target over the following months. But Target was unable to tell him 
anything  for example, in March 2020, its contact notes record:
advised we can not produce RQ [redemption quotation] due to cladding issues that 
are ongoing with HE [Homes England], advised we had no update, referred to 
[Target staff member] who said we would send a chaser email
On 12 June 2020, another contact note records:
Mr not happy that he has no update on the cladding issue and HE[s valuer] went out 
back in September. I have advised Mr I will look in to the situation and email him to 
call us when we have a reply
On both occasions Target sent a chasing email to Homes England. Homes England replied 
that it was waiting for an answer from its legal team.
Mr T continued to chase Target periodically, though by this time he was living outside the 
UK.
Target says that in July 2021, Homes England introduced a new process for redeeming 
loans secured over cladding-affected properties. The new process is that it will accept a 
valuation, provided that the valuer signs a specific declaration in the terms Homes England 
requires. That declaration, and instructions for borrowers affected by cladding who wish to redeem, was made available to borrowers and valuers online from 4 August 2021.1 Though 
it was not communicated to Mr T at this time.
In September 2021, Mr T told Target that he did still want a redemption figure and wanted to 
sell the property. Target again chased Homes England for a decision. It did not tell Mr T that 
a new process had been published a month before.
Homes England said that its valuer, that it instructed in September 2019, had never 
produced a report. It said that it now needed Mr Ts valuer, who did report in July 2019, to 
complete a further declaration. This did not happen.
It doesnt seem Mr T was asked to obtain a further declaration from his valuer; Target 
emailed him on 6 September 2021 asking him to contact it, but without saying why. It did not 
tell Mr T in the email that there was a new process, or that an updated declaration would be 
needed from his valuer. Anyway, by this point Mr T was not living in the UK and over two 
years had passed since the valuation was carried out.
In February 2022, Target told Mr T that in order to proceed with his redemption, a new and 
updated valuation would be required, which Target would pay for.
My jurisdiction to consider this complaint
The Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction is set out in our rules (including the Dispute 
Resolution: Complaints chapter (DISP) of the FCAs handbook and in legislation (including 
the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO)).
DISP says that we can only consider a complaint where (among other things) both the firm 
and the activity complained about fall within our jurisdiction.
DISP 2.3.1R says
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following 
activities:
(1) Regulated activities

or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with 
them.
A firm includes an entity that is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (the FCA). Homes England is not authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority and so we cannot consider a complaint against Homes England about 
anything it may or may not have done. However, Target is authorised and regulated by the 
FCA and so is a firm for the purposes of DISP 2.3.1R.
DISP 2.3.1R(1) says we can consider a complaint against Target if it relates to an act or 
omission by it in carrying on a regulated activity (or ancillary activities, including advice, in 
connection with that regulated activity). In turn, the definition of regulated activities refers 
(in the main) to the list of activities set out in the RAO.
1 See https://www.gov.uk/guidance/check-if-your-home-has-cladding-that-may-need-a-
specialistvaluation and https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/request-to-appoint-a-valuer-for-a-
propertywith-external-cladding Target doesnt dispute that it is carrying on (and authorised by the FCA to carry on) two 
regulated activities in relation to Mr T: the activities of debt administration (Article 39G) and 
debt collection (Article 39F).
So far as is relevant for present purposes, article 39G(1) of the RAO defines debt 
administration as:
taking steps
(a) To perform duties under a credit agreement on behalf of the lender, or
(b) To exercise or enforce rights under such an agreement on behalf of the lender
So far as is relevant for present purposes, article 39F(1) of the RAO defines debt collecting 
as:
taking steps to procure the payment of a debt due under a credit agreement
For the purposes of both articles 39F and 39G and in the context of this complaint (see 
article 3 of the RAO) a credit agreement has the meaning given in article 60B of the RAO.
Article 60B(3) says that a credit agreement means:
 an agreement between an individual or relevant recipient of credit (A) and any 
other person (B) under which B provides A with credit of any amount.
In this case, its not in dispute that the shared equity loan is a credit agreement for the 
purposes of articles 39F and 39G of the RAO.
In its response to the investigators view, Target argued that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service does not have the jurisdiction to consider anything to do with the terms and 
conditions of (or processes relating to) Mr Ts help to buy loan because the loan is not 
regulated. 
What I understand Target to mean by this is our jurisdiction is limited by the fact that this 
loan is not a regulated credit agreement or regulated mortgage contract as defined in articles 
60B and 61(3) of the RAO respectively.
However, I dont think this makes any difference to my jurisdiction. The definition Ive quoted 
above refers to a credit agreement not a regulated credit agreement. It doesnt matter that 
this is not a regulated credit agreement, since the definitions of the activities of debt 
administration and debt collection are not limited to regulated credit agreements; they cover 
all credit agreements.
That means that we can consider a complaint about Target about its acts or omissions  
what it did but also what it failed to do  in carrying on the regulated activities of debt 
administration and debt collection relating to the shared equity loan that Mr T took out. In 
other words, we can consider not just the steps Target took; we can also consider whether it 
should have taken steps but omitted to do so. And in considering that, I can have regard to 
all the circumstances of the complaint  including the terms and conditions of the loan.
Now Ive set out the extent of my jurisdiction in this complaint, Ill go on to consider what 
happened, whether those events fall within my jurisdiction, and what in my view is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.Since this is a complaint about the redemption  or rather Mr Ts inability to redeem  his 
loan, Ill start by setting out something of the context in which this complaint arises, as well 
as what the valuation obtained by Mr T actually said. Ill then move on to considering what 
the contractual redemption process was. And the starting point for that is the terms and 
conditions of the loan. Ill then go on to consider what went wrong  that is, what Target 
ought to have done and whether it failed to do that  and whether  and to what extent  
Target is responsible for that and whether its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
The relevance of cladding to this complaint
At this point, I would like to say something about the presence of cladding on Mr Ts 
property, as noted by Mr Ts surveyor in his July 2019 report.
Following the Grenfell Tower tragedy in 2017, there was increased awareness of the risk 
caused by certain types of building construction, including potentially combustible composite 
cladding, particularly on blocks of flats.
Uncertainties around whether individual buildings either have cladding, or whether  if they 
do  the cladding is a fire safety risk (and indeed whether there are other, non-cladding, fire 
safety risks present), have had a significant impact on both the sales and mortgage lending 
markets in the years since the Grenfell fire. Identification of affected buildings, and the 
responsibility for carrying out  and paying for  any necessary remediation continue to be 
matters of public concern and controversy.
Im aware from this complaint and other complaints, as well as my wider knowledge of the 
mortgage market, that the presence  or potential presence  of unremedied combustible 
cladding and other fire safety concerns can cause difficulty in valuing affected properties. 
As will be apparent from the timeline above, that was reflected in the course of this 
complaint. Since this was a shared equity loan, the redemption figure was based on the 
valuation of the property at the time of redemption. At the time Mr T wanted to redeem his 
loan, in July 2019, Homes England was considering the approach it wanted to take to 
redemption requests on properties potentially affected by these issues. It seems that it was 
not until 2021 that it resolved this question to its own satisfaction.
Ive looked at the valuation Mr T commissioned in July 2019. Thats the only valuation or 
inspection that has been done in respect of Mr Ts property. And its not been suggested 
during this complaint that it was inaccurate in its description of the property.
The valuation says that the property is a second floor flat in a four-storey block built around 
10 years ago. It says the building appears to be of concrete frame construction with brick 
elevations with elements of composite cladding. That is the only mention of cladding in the 
report; there is no suggestion that the cladding is extensive, potentially combustible, or 
requires further inspection or analysis. It is not flagged by the surveyor as a potential risk or
as a matter affecting the valuation, and the valuer gives a valuation which is not qualified or 
caveated by any matter.
However, it seems that merely this mention of cladding within the valuation report was 
enough for Target to put Mr Ts redemption request on hold while Homes England 
considered its approach.
I bear this in mind when now turning to consider what Target (as the regulated administrator 
of Mr Ts shared equity loan) should have done in this case  starting with what the terms of 
the loan agreement and the customer information pack say, then moving on to consider what 
Target did and what in my view it ought to have done in Mr Ts specific situation.The contractual redemption process
Mr Ts right to redeem his loan  and the process to be followed  is set out in the loans 
terms and conditions. The loan agreement was entered into by Mr T and the Homes and 
Communities Agency, dated 6 March 2012. Ill refer to the Homes and Communities Agency 
and Homes England as the lender in the rest of my decision. The loan agreement has not 
been amended since it was entered into.
The loan agreement sets out how the loan is to be redeemed before the end of the term, if 
the borrower wishes to do so. Ive set out the relevant sections below.
Clause 4.1 says:
[The Borrower covenants with the Lender] To pay to the Lender on or immediately 
after a redemption event (which is described in clause 5) an amount equal to the 
Repayment Sum by reference to the valuation as on the date of such an event 
together with any reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Lender pursuant to 
this Mortgage and any other sums payable and outstanding under this Mortgage. 
This payment is to be made in the way described in clause 6 which clause also 
describes the valuation which is required.
Clause 5.1 defines a redemption event as the occurrence of any Disposal save for an 
Exempt Disposal. Given how these terms are defined in clause 1.1 (interpretation), Mr Ts 
planned sale of his home would constitute a Disposal (and not an Exempt Disposal).
Clause 6 says:
6. Transfer of the Property and Determining the Repayment Sum
6.1. If the Borrower wishes to make a Disposal the Borrower must notify the Lender in 
writing to the effect that he wishes to make a Disposal
6.2. Within fourteen (14) days of the service of the Transfer Notice the Borrower shall 
apply (at its own cost) to the Valuer (whose decision shall be final) to determine the 
Market Value as at the date of receipt of the Transfer Notice [defined in clause 1.1 
as the notice served pursuant to clause 6.1] or as at the date of the other relevant 
event as the case may be and within five working days of receipt of such 
determination the Borrower shall serve a Valuation Notice on the Lender.
6.3. The Valuation Notice shall remain valid for a period of three months (or four months 
if extended by the Valuer) and in the case of a Disposal where completion of the 
Disposal does not take place within three months (or as extended) of service of the 
Valuation Notice by the Borrower on the Lender, the procedure set out in clauses 
6.1 and 6.2 shall be repeated prior to the Disposal.
6.4. Upon completion of the Disposal in accordance with this clause 6 or, where any 
other relevant event occurs within seven days after determination of Market Value 
under clause 6.2, the Borrower shall also pay to the Lender the sums due in 
accordance with clause 4.1 PROVIDED THAT following completion of a Disposal no 
person shall be registered as proprietor of the Property until such time as the sums 
due in accordance with clause 4.1 are paid to the Lender at which time the Lender 
shall provide consent to the registration in the Land Registry in accordance with 
Clause 11 and apply to the Land Registry to remove the restriction referred to in 
clause 11 from the Register.Capitalised terms have specific definitions as set out in clause 1.1 (Interpretation):
Valuer means
An independent qualified valuer appointed by agreement between the parties or 
failing agreement by or on behalf of the president for the time being of the Royal 
Institute of Chartered Surveyors on the application of either party.
Valuation Notice means notice of the determination of the Valuer of the Market Value.
Repayment Sum means
The Remaining Proportion [the initial percentage of the purchase price less any 
earlier payment] of the Market Value shown in the Valuation obtained under clause 
6,7 or 8 as the case may be.
Market Value means
The price which the Property would fetch on the open market on a sale by a willing 
vendor to a willing purchaser  provided that in the case of a Disposal where the 
Disposal price (disregarding any part of that price attributable to any additions or 
improvements made by the Borrower with the written consent of the Lender) is 
greater than the Market Value then the Market Value shall be substituted with such 
Disposal price when calculating the Repayment Sum.
Disposal means
A transfer to a third party of the Borrowers interest in the Property or any part of the 
Property
I also note clause 1.7 (Nominated Agent) which says:
The Lender reserves the right to appoint a Nominated Agent to administer this loan  on its 
behalf and to collect all payments that are due . Where the Lender has confirmed that a 
Nominated Agent is appointed:
1.7.1. all correspondence and/or payments that are required under this mortgage 
should be directed to the Nominated Agent unless the Lender has notified you 
otherwise (in writing) of any changes to this arrangement; and 
1.7.2. the Nominated Agent will be entitled to recover from the Borrower on behalf of 
the Lender any reasonable costs and expenses which the Lender is entitled to 
recover from the Borrower under the terms of this Mortgage.
For the purposes of administering this shared equity loan, Homes England appointed Target 
as its Nominated Agent.
As noted above, Mr T wanted to sell his property (a Disposal) and therefore needed to 
repay his help to buy loan.
In brief summary, the terms and conditions provide that the process for this is as follows
(i) he should apply to the lender and then within 14 days apply to a valuer for a 
valuation;(ii) a valuer should be RICS qualified and appointed by agreement between Mr T and 
the lender (or by the president of RICS if they cant agree);
(iii) under clause 6.2, this valuers decision shall be final. There is no right of appeal, for 
either party, against a decision of a properly appointed valuer. The redemption 
amount for the shared equity loan is then worked out accordingly  so, in Mr Ts 
case, it would be 10% of the valuation (or, if higher, the actual sale price);
(iv) Mr T then has three months (extendable to four) to pay the sum due to redeem his 
loan. If completion fails to happen within that time, the above steps must be 
carried out again.
The redemption information pack
As Ive set out in the timeline above, Mr T notified Target that he wanted to sell his property 
and redeem the loan. He did this because Target was appointed to manage the loan on 
behalf of Homes England (i.e. it was the Nominated Agent under the loan agreement), and 
Mr T was told that all contact was to be with Target. Target was therefore acting as the 
lenders agent for these purposes.
After Mr T contacted Target, Target sent Mr T a link to the customer information pack and 
some forms. Mr T completed and returned Form A, which is the notice required in the 
provisions Ive quoted above.
The link sent to Mr T no longer works. Target has not provided us with a copy of what Mr T 
would have seen. However, we have been given copies of the standard information pack in 
use at this time in other cases. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, Im satisfied that 
Mr T would have seen the same document when he clicked on the link he was emailed. 
I say that because Ive seen it on other cases involving redemption issues around this time, 
and because Mr T and his solicitors attempted to follow the process as described therein. 
And I say that because I made the same observation in my provisional decision, and Target 
did not take issue with what I said or provide a different version of the redemption pack as 
the one Mr T would have seen. Im therefore satisfied that what I quote below is what Mr T 
would have seen.
The information pack says that The Homes and Communities Agency (known as Homes 
England) has appointed Target Servicing Limited as its Mortgage Administrator to manage 
the redemption process.
The pack says that a borrower should obtain a valuation and should send the valuation to 
Target.
The relevant sections of the customer information pack say:
1. Obtain a valuation
In order to produce a redemption figure for redeeming your loan, we will need a 
valuation for your property that has been conducted by a RICS (Royal Institute of 
Chartered Surveyors) Certified Surveyor.
We do not endorse any particular companies; however the web link below may assist 
you in identifying a RICS Certified Surveyor: www.rics.org/uk
Once a RICS Valuation Report has been generated, please send the report to 
Target.
Once you have successfully submitted a valid valuation report you will received [sic] 
an estimated repayment quote .This will include details of any arrears and your daily 
interest payment rate to allow your solicitor to calculate an accurate final repayment 
sum.

If your property is affected by novel issues in relation to its valuation e.g. its external 
cladding, we reserve the right, in accordance with the terms of the equity loan, to 
agree the RICS Valuer you intend to use, with you, before you instruct them.
There are then a number of further sections relating to the mechanics for the redemption of 
the loan, but which I do not need to cite here.
There is then a further section about the valuation requirements which says:
Valuation Requirements
You will need to provide a valuation report. You will need to instruct an independent 
surveyor and pay for their services. You should instruct a Royal Institute of Chartered 
Surveyors (RICS) valuation surveyor to value the property.
To help you locate a RICS surveyor, please use this link: www.rics.org/uk
When instructing the RICs valuation surveyor please ensure you inform them
that:
The Valuer must be registered with the recognised qualification of RICS.
The Valuer must be independent to an estate agent.
The report must be on headed paper, signed by the RICS surveyor and addressed to 
Target HCA.
The Valuer MUST provide at least 3 comparable properties and sale prices.
The comparables provided must be like for like in terms of property type, size and 
age and within a 2 mile radius to the property that is being inspected.
The Valuer must not be related or known to you.
The Valuer must inspect the interior of the property and provide a full valuation 
report.
Valuations carried out for bank or mortgage purposes are not acceptable.
A copy of the valuation report must be supplied to Target; the inspection date must 
be shown on the report.
If the valuation report does not meet the above guidelines, you will be required to 
liaise with the RICS valuation surveyor for rectification; any additional costs incurred 
for this will be your responsibility.
The appointment of a valuer to value Mr Ts property
When Mr T told Target he wanted to sell and pay off his loan, asking for a redemption figure, 
Target sent him an email which said that it required a valuation by a RICS surveyor. Ive 
quoted the full text of the email in the timeline section above. It did not say that Mr T 
needed to agree a surveyor with Target in advance; it merely asked him to obtain a valuation 
and send it to Target.
Target also sent him a link to the information pack Ive described above.Im satisfied that this means that Target asked Mr T to appoint his own valuer provided that 
the valuer was a RICS qualified surveyor whose report complied with the requirements 
above.
The valuer which Mr T instructed was a RICS qualified surveyor. The surveyor produced a 
report dated 10 July 2019 which complies with the requirements in the Customer Information 
Pack I have set out above  theres been no suggestion that the report didnt meet those 
requirements.
In the customer information pack  though not in the email  Target said it reserved the right 
to agree a valuer in advance in certain situations, including where the property was affected 
by cladding.
I will return to this point below because  according to Target  the presence of cladding (as 
identified in the surveyors report) and Homes Englands reaction to that means Target did 
nothing wrong in not providing a redemption figure to Mr T in accordance with the terms of 
the loan agreement and Customer Information Pack at the relevant time.
However, for the moment, I note the following:
(i) Target told Mr T to instruct his own RICS qualified surveyor to value the property. It 
did not say that Mr T had to notify Target of the identity of his proposed valuer, or 
seek its agreement in advance. It simply told him to appoint a valuer and to send 
it the valuation.
(ii) The contract says that Valuer means an independent qualified valuer appointed by 
agreement, or if not agreed by the president of RICS. While Target did not agree 
in advance to a specific named valuer proposed by Mr T, Im satisfied that in 
telling him to go ahead and appoint a RICS qualified surveyor of his choice  
which Mr T did  Target is to be treated (on the lenders behalf) as having agreed 
to Mr Ts choice of valuer.
(iii) Clause 6.2 of the loan agreement says that the valuation produced by the valuer 
shall be final. The valuer did produce a valuation, and Mr T sent it to Target in 
late July or early August 2019. Mr T had also agreed a sale of his property, and 
the valuation was for the same amount as the agreed sale price.
(iv) Im therefore satisfied that under the terms of the contract, this meant that the Market 
Value had been determined by a qualified and properly appointed valuer whose 
decision was final. That in turn gave Mr T the right to repay his loan for the 
repayment sum, 10% of the Market Value.
(v) The terms of the shared equity loan (and Customer Information Pack) provide that 
Target should have proceeded to provide a redemption figure to Mr T on this 
basis.
However, Target did not do this. I will consider the reasons that Target has given for not 
doing this below.
The failure to redeem the loan
As noted in the timeline, Mr T and his solicitors tried repeatedly to arrange the redemption of 
his loan. They were in regular contact with Target for the rest of 2019 and early 2020 asking 
for a redemption figure and for it to agree to accept payment and discharge the charge over 
the property so that Mr Ts sale could be completed.
However, Target did not provide a redemption figure and did not agree to set or collect the 
redemption sum. It said that because the valuation had identified elements of cladding, it could not go ahead and it had referred Mr Ts request to its specialist department (meaning 
Homes England) for consideration and a decision.
It was two further years until Homes England reached a decision; by that time, Mr Ts sale 
had long fallen through.
At first, Homes England wouldnt accept Mr Ts valuation. Then in 2021, it decided that it 
would accept the valuation  but only if the valuer signed a new declaration in the specific 
terms that Homes England wanted. But this was not communicated to Mr T. And in 2022, 
Target said that a new valuation would be required.
Even though, therefore, there was a properly appointed valuer whose decision was  
according to the contract  final, and which triggered the right to redeem and the setting of a 
repayment sum, that valuation was not accepted and Homes England did not allow Target to 
allow Mr T to redeem his loan.
Is Target responsible for the failure to redeem the loan?
In summary, Target says that its not responsible for the failure of Mr Ts loan to be 
redeemed. It says that it followed Homes Englands instructions and that any delays  and 
losses that flow from them  are not due to Target or its administration of the loan, but rather 
due to decisions taken by Homes England which Target was entitled to act in accordance 
with. 
Ive already set out above that, in administering Mr Ts shared equity loan on the lenders 
behalf, Target is carrying out the regulated activity of debt administration.
As a reminder, the regulated activity of debt administration involves:
Taking steps
(a) To perform duties under a credit agreement or relevant article 36H agreement on 
behalf of the lender, or
(b) To exercise or enforce rights under such an agreement on behalf of the lender
In my view, the loan agreement makes it clear that the lender had the following contractual 
duties (subject to the borrower providing the required notices, which Im satisfied Mr T did or 
tried to do) when Mr T sought to exercise his right to redeem the loan on a sale:
On receipt of a redemption request, to agree the appointment of a valuer or, failing 
agreement, to accept an appointment made by the president of RICS;
Accept the nominated valuers decision as final and as determining the repayment 
sum (subject to the sale price not being higher);
Collect  or agree to receive  the repayment sum as determined by the valuation or 
sale price;
Discharge the charge over the property.
As Ive noted above, the lender nominated and authorised Target (as its Nominated Agent) 
to deal with the administration of the loan, including its redemption, on its behalf. The 
customer information pack sets out Targets role in the process.
When Mr T gave notice that he wanted to redeem his loan, that triggered the lenders 
contractual obligations to take the steps Ive set out above. The lender had appointed Target 
as its Nominated Agent to take those steps, and the customer information pack makes clear 
that in fact it would be Target that would take those steps. In doing so Target was carrying on the regulated activity of debt administration  it was performing the lenders duties and / 
or exercising the lenders rights on the lenders behalf.
Im satisfied that, in regulatory terms and in the context of this complaint, this means Target 
is responsible for the failure to comply with the lenders contractual obligations to allow Mr T 
to redeem his loan.
Ive said that its fair to say that the valuation should have been treated as final and binding 
giving Mr T the right to redeem his loan  and setting the redemption amount.
As far as Mr T was concerned  both in what the customer information pack said, and in 
what Target told him according to its contact notes  it was Target that was responsible for 
this. Target doesnt dispute that the valuation wasnt accepted, that Mr T wasnt given a 
redemption figure, and that he wasnt able to redeem its loan.
But Target says that this was because it was acting on the lenders instructions, and the 
mention of cladding in the valuation meant the lender was unable  or unwilling  to accept 
the valuation and agree a redemption. It says it acted on the lenders instructions and isnt 
responsible for the consequences that followed.
But Im not persuaded by this. Target was appointed by the lender to manage the loan and 
carry out its duties. In accepting that appointment, it acted as a regulated firm carrying out 
regulated activities. It was carrying on the regulated activity of administering this loan, and in 
doing so, it is responsible for any failure to administer it in line with the terms and conditions 
 and the consequences that flowed from doing so. Im satisfied that I can consider whether, 
in administering this loan, Target acted fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances.
Did Target act fairly and reasonably in all the circumstances?
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, I take into account relevant 
law, regulation, guidance and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time  as required by our rules.
As Ive explained above, Mr T did everything necessary to comply with his contractual 
obligations regarding the redemption of his loan, and so should have been issued with a 
redemption figure based on the valuation which his surveyor produced in accordance with 
the timescales set out in the loan agreement.
Im satisfied, as Ive said, that in telling Mr T to appoint his own valuer, Target agreed to the 
valuer Mr T chose  and that made the valuers decision final, entitling Mr T to redeem his 
loan.
Ive noted that the customer information pack says that Target reserves the right to agree a 
valuation in advance in certain circumstances. And Ive also noted that Target has said that 
cladding was a novel issue that the lender needed to consider its response to before 
agreeing a valuation.
Ive quoted the relevant sections of the customer information pack above. It simply states 
that Target reserves the right to agree the specific individual RICS valuer in advance if 
cladding is identified. In other words, this reiterates the right which Target (acting on the 
lenders behalf) already has under the loan agreement  that is, to agree a particular named 
RICS valuer.
However, Target did not as a matter of fact in this case ask Mr T to agree a particular valuer 
of its choice in advance, or ask Mr T to present his choice for agreement. As I have explained above, it told Mr T that he could use any RICS valuer, which he in fact did. Im 
satisfied this means that it agreed to Mr Ts choice of valuer  and that in turn meant the 
valuer was the agreed Valuer referred to in the terms and conditions whose valuation was 
final.
While it might be that Target was not aware of the cladding issue on the building until Mr Ts 
valuation report mentioned its presence, that does not in my view mean that Target was 
therefore entitled (whether or not Homes England instructed it to do so) to refuse to accept 
the valuation which Mr Ts valuer did in fact produce and/or otherwise delay the contractual 
redemption process.
If Target (acting on Homes Englands behalf) wanted to exercise the right to agree a 
particular individual valuer, it needed to do so before one was appointed. If Target or Homes 
England were concerned about the possibility of cladding on a building (which, as I have 
noted above, was a known issue affecting the property market generally as at July 2019), it 
could have and should have made enquiries before telling Mr T that he could appoint 
whichever RICS qualified valuer he wanted to appoint  and having made those enquiries 
told Mr T to appoint a specific named valuer or to propose one for its agreement.
The fact that cladding might, in certain circumstances, impact a valuation was clearly 
something Target was aware of, since it was mentioned in the information pack. So it could 
have taken that step before telling Mr T to instruct a valuer of his choice. In short, I dont 
think the discovery of potential cladding after the valuation invalidates the appointment of the 
valuer.
It follows that the valuation which Mr T in fact obtained was, for the purposes of the 
redemption of the loan, final and binding on the lender. It also follows that Target, who was 
the debt administrator authorised to act on the lenders behalf, did not have any contractual 
right to reject this valuation or otherwise delay the redemption process for the reasons it did. 
For that failure, it is Target  as the regulated debt administrator performing the lenders 
duties and exercising the lenders rights under the loan agreement  which is responsible to 
Mr T.
I will also address Targets argument that it was entitled to delay the redemption process - 
notwithstanding the absence of any provision in the loan agreement to cover this situation  
because Homes England needed time to consider its approach to properties affected by 
cladding  because this was a novel issue.
It seems that Homes England told Target to refer redemption of loans where the valuation 
mentioned cladding. This was because it wanted to consider its position  though its not 
clear exactly what it was considering, or why it took two years to do so. That meant that 
rather than allowing Mr T to proceed, Target referred his valuation to Homes England  
which, according to Targets records, did not respond for two years.
I accept that the fire safety risk presented by combustible cladding was at this time a novel 
issue. Many building owners, managing agents, insurance companies, mortgage lenders, 
government agencies and others were considering the implications of potential combustible 
cladding fire safety risks (and other fire safety risks), the implications for their own position, 
and what to do about it. That seems to be what was happening here.
However, I note that theres no suggestion in the valuation which Mr T did obtain that  
having identified the presence of cladding  the specific cladding on Mr Ts block presented
a fire safety risk, or that it warranted further investigation to see whether it did, or that it had 
any impact on the valuation or marketability of the property. Indeed, the valuer was prepared 
to give a valuation figure of £198,500 for Mr Ts property without qualification.It therefore seems that it was the mere use of the word cladding that led to the delays in 
this case.
But I dont think that a novel issue like combustible cladding and fire safety means that the 
lender can unilaterally delay the redemption of the loan outside the express terms of the loan 
agreement (and in circumstances where the borrower has otherwise complied with his 
contractual obligations to redeem the loan). 
I note, for instance, that it would have been open to the lender to include an exceptional 
circumstances or unforeseen events clause, or a valuation review or appeal mechanism, in 
the contract, but it didnt do that. In the absence of such a clause, where theres a binding 
valuation and a valid redemption request, it wasnt open to the lender (or the regulated debt 
administrator, acting on the lenders behalf) just to ignore that request for two years  
whether or not a novel issue was under consideration.
Mr T and his solicitors repeatedly tried to redeem the loan. They asked Target to agree the 
redemption figure, asked for the required paperwork, tried to agree a date. But Target 
wouldnt engage, and wouldnt agree to set a figure or collect the payment. Mr T tried himself 
to speak with the specialist department (which was Homes England) and was told he 
couldnt  though it seems he wasnt told that the specialist department wasnt part of 
Target, or that it was Homes England that was causing the delay.
And while it seems that Target was waiting for the lender to make a decision and waiting for 
instruction about what to do next, it also seems from the communication Ive seen that 
Target was not pro-active. Despite having its own regulatory obligations, it made little or no 
effort to carry them out.
Target only chased the lender when it itself was contacted by Mr T, and then only in very 
general terms and not in any way that made clear the urgency of Mr Ts requests or the 
impact of delay on his situation. Target didnt remind the lender that there was a valid and 
binding valuation entitling Mr T to redeem his loan, it didnt point out that there was no 
suggestion that Mr Ts property or its valuation was affected by combustible cladding, it 
didnt spell out to the lender the consequences to Mr T of the delay, and it didnt try to 
resolve the issue itself. It didnt point out to the lender that either the lender or Target itself 
had obligations to Mr T to complete the contractual redemption process  and that was 
failing to happen. Nor did it explain to Mr T what the underlying problem was or what  if 
anything  Target was trying to do about it.
Overall, and having taken all the circumstances into account, Im satisfied that Target did not 
act fairly or reasonably towards Mr T in handling his redemption request. As Ive found 
above, once the valuation was carried out and provided to Target in accordance with the 
terms of the loan agreement, the lender (and Target, performing the lenders duties on its 
behalf) was bound to accept the valuation, collect (or agree to accept) the payment and 
agree to discharge the legal charge to permit Mr T to complete the sale of his home.
However, Target failed to do so and bears responsibility towards Mr T for that failure and its 
consequences.
Im therefore satisfied that its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that Target 
compensates Mr T for the losses that flow from the failure to do so.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said that as a starting point, I should aim for Target to put Mr T back in the position he would have been in had nothing gone wrong  as if he had been able 
to sell his property in 2019.
But I also recognised that, in reality, thats not possible. The 2019 sale fell through at the 
time. And although Mr T is still keen and willing to sell his property, he hasnt been able to 
market it or agree a new sale unless and until Target confirms he is able to redeem his loan. 
So Target should now agree for that to happen.
As Target and the lender have now introduced a process to allow borrowers such as Mr T to 
redeem their loans, Mr T should be able to re-start the sale process and apply again to 
Target to redeem his loan  and should not have any further difficulties in doing so. 
However, although that process is now open to him, the delay in his being able to sell and 
redeem his loan since 2019 has caused him substantial upset and  depending on whether 
his property has risen or fallen in value since, and by how much  potentially significant 
financial loss.
Separately to allowing Mr T to re-start the sale of his property and the redemption of his 
loan, therefore, Target will also need to calculate the extent of the loss its delay caused him 
and compensate him for that. Ive set out below how that calculation is to be made, and 
Target should pay compensation in line with that calculation whether or not Mr T goes on to 
sell the property. 
The redemption process
In order to resolve this complaint, Target should commission  at its own expense  a new 
valuation of Mr Ts property. This valuation should then be used to determine the redemption 
figure for Mr Ts loan, and the redemption process should be started. A new valuation will be 
required because the one commissioned in 2019 has now expired and is out of date. The 
contractual redemption process will have to start again, and that requires a new valuation. 
The new valuation should be at Targets expense because it would not have been necessary 
had Mr T been allowed to redeem his loan in 2019, and it is not therefore fair to expect him 
to bear the cost of a second valuation which should not have been necessary. And for the 
same reasons, he should not be charged a second redemption administration fee.
Mr T should also be given time to market and sell the property. It will take him some time to 
do so, to find a new buyer and to complete on a sale. I think its reasonable to allow six 
months from the date Mr T accepts my final decision. If Mr T sells his property or otherwise 
repays the loan in that time, his financial loss should be the figures Ive set out below, 
together with further expenditure up to the date of redemption. 
If Mr T does not sell his property or otherwise repay the loan in that time, the financial loss 
should be the figures Ive set out below, together with further expenditure up to six months 
from the date Mr T accepts my final decision. If Mr T does not redeem his loan in that time, 
Target will not be responsible for his further losses thereafter as resolution for this complaint.
Although the terms of the contract say that a valuation should only be valid for three months, 
extendible to four, I think its fair to expect Target to allow Mr T six months in this case, since 
in the normal course of events he wouldnt have started the redemption process until he had 
found a buyer. But now he will have to re-market the property. It is open to Target to wait 
until some time into the six month period before commissioning the valuation  provided it 
does so in good time to allow a market value and redemption figure to be set. 
Mr Ts financial loss  day to day expenditureIn my provisional decision I said that Mr T was no longer living in the property  it was empty 
pending the sale as he was living abroad. I said that Target should refund the additional 
costs Mr T has incurred in continuing to own a property he no longer needs and is not living 
in and which he should have been able to sell in 2019. These include his service charge, 
ground rent, council tax and utilities, as well as the interest he has paid on his mortgage. 
However, the capital part of his mortgage payments should not be refunded, as that would 
result in a double benefit  since Mr T will also receive the value of those payments through 
increased equity when the property is eventually sold. 
Having considered the matter again, I still think its fair for these costs to be taken into 
account. 
Mr T said he had been forced to borrow on credit cards and from friends and family to cover 
these expenses. However, Ive not seen any evidence that hes had to pay interest to friends 
and family. But Ive seen evidence that he has made some of the payments on credit cards  
and where that is the case, Target should also refund the credit card interest he has had to 
pay. Where Mr T did not pay by credit card or other borrowing, Target should add simple 
annual interest of 8% to each refunded item of expenditure, running from the date Mr T paid 
it to the date of refund, to compensate him for being out of pocket for those sums.
Target said it doesnt agree that it should be responsible for Mr Ts additional expenditure in 
continuing to own the property. Im not persuaded by what its said about that. Ill explain 
why.
Target has suggested that either that Mr T might have been renting out the property  and 
hasnt incurred those losses (or has offset them through increases in rent)  or that he ought 
to have mitigated his losses by doing so. But I dont agree.
Weve asked Mr T about this, and he says he wasnt renting the property out. Target has not 
presented any evidence to suggest that he was. And his utility bills do not suggest that the 
property was being lived in.
As to whether he ought to have done so to mitigate his losses, I dont think thats a 
reasonable expectation. The terms and conditions of this loan prevented him from doing so. 
And, though Ive not seen the terms and conditions of his main mortgage, Im aware that its 
standard for residential mortgage contracts to forbid letting too. 
Even if Mr T was permitted to do so, he didnt want to rent the property out he wanted to sell 
it  and sell it as soon as possible. Its only with the benefit of hindsight that we know he 
would have to wait over two years for a response to his request to redeem  as far as he 
knew at the time, he could have been given the go-ahead at any time and renting the 
property out (on a tenancy of six months or more) would have prevented or delayed a sale.
Target has also suggested that any redress should end at June 2020, because it doesnt 
think Mr T was being pro-active in contacting it thereafter. I dont agree about this. Ive set 
out the timeline above. Mr T was contacting Target  but in any case, each time he did so, 
he was told that Target would contact him when there were any developments. Therefore 
the onus was on Target to contact Mr T, not the other way round.
And Mr T then complained to us about the failure to let him redeem, and its reasonable for 
him to leave his complaint in our hands. Finally, even if Mr T had contacted Target far more 
often that he did, it would have made no difference. He would not have been able to redeem 
his loan any sooner whatever he did. The failure here is in Target not allowing Mr T to 
redeem, not in Mr T not chasing Target often enough.Target said that once there was a process in place, from September 2021, it was up to Mr T 
to contact it. But for the same reasons, I dont agree about that either. It should have been 
more pro-active. It sent one email, asking Mr T to call without explaining why, and then took 
no further action.
For all those reasons, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to take into account the 
additional expenditure Mr T has incurred in continuing to own the property past the point at 
which he ought to have been able to sell it.
Following my provisional decision, I itemised the expenditure Mr T had sent us evidence of, 
and sent a schedule of those payments to both parties. Mr T accepted my proposed 
schedule of loss, and Target did not reply. In those circumstances, Im satisfied that my 
proposed schedule of loss accurately reflects Mr Ts financial losses, and therefore should 
form part of the redress calculation I have set out below. 
In each case, I have taken expenditure as refundable from 1 December 2019. I selected that 
date because Mr T sent his valuation to Target in late July 2019. A valuation is valid for three 
months, extendable to four. This was sufficient time for Target, acting fairly, to have given Mr 
T a redemption figure and for Mr Ts sale to complete and the loan be repaid. Therefore, the 
latest Mr Ts loan ought, fairly, to have been paid off is the end of November 2019 and so 
expenditure from 1 December 2019 was incurred after he ought no longer to have owned the 
property or needed to incur it.
I havent reproduced the detailed breakdown of invoices for reasons of space, though both 
parties have been sent a copy. But I reproduce here a summary:
Item Dates covered Amount Interest 
applicable
Service charge Dec 2019 to 
March 2023£4,705.56 Credit card on 
March 2022 and 
March 2021 
payments; 
otherwise 8% 
simple
Ground rent Oct 2020 to Sep 
2022 (2019/20 
not included as 
payable 
annually in 
advance so 
would have 
been incurred 
before the sale)£500 8% simple
Mortgage 
interestDecember 2019 
to December 
2021£2,696.92 8% simple
Council tax 2021/2 and 
2022/3£1,722.72 8% simple
Electricity December 2019 
to January 2022£461.91 8% simple
Water December 2019 
to June 2022£920.88 8% simple
Sewage December 2019 £1,326.47 8% simpleto December 
2021
The summary table above represents the invoices available at the time I prepared it. Before 
Target makes the final redress calculation Ive set out below, it will need to contact Mr T to 
obtain further invoices that have since become available to ensure that his full expenditure 
up to the end of the redress period is taken into account. 
Target will also need to calculate any interest Mr T has paid on his help to buy loan, and the 
monthly administration fees he has paid, since December 2019 to the end of the redress 
period. Those amounts, plus simple annual interest of 8% running from the date of each 
payment to date of refund, will also need to be added to the expenditure itemised above.
Mr T also incurred wasted legal costs in 2019 on a sale that could not go through. Those 
costs should be refunded. But legal costs associated with a new sale should be Mr Ts 
responsibility, since selling would always incur legal costs. And for the same reason, the cost 
of the 2019 valuation should not be refunded, since Mr T would always have paid that. 
Target will need to obtain the 2019 legal costs from Mr T, and again will need to add 8% 
simple annual interest running from the date he made payment to the date of refund. And 
this amount should also be added to the itemised expenditure.
The end of the redress period is the earlier of six months from the date Mr T accepts my final 
decision, if he does so, or the date on which Mr T sells the property and redeems his loan. 
This total expenditure then becomes figure D in the calculation I set out below.
Mr Ts financial loss  taking account of changes in the propertys value
A further complication is that property prices may well have changed in the meantime. If the 
property has increased in value since 2019, by selling it now Mr T will have made a gain 
from the delay, in that he will realise more equity from a sale now than he would have done 
in 2019  and that gain will need to be offset from his financial losses. But the increased 
value will also mean a higher redemption figure than would have been the case in 2019  
and that is a further loss to take into account.
But if the property has fallen in value over that time, Mr T will have made a further loss in 
having less equity to take from the sale. Though he will also have made a gain in having to 
pay a smaller redemption sum than would have been the case in 2019.
The change in the property value, and its impact on Mr Ts losses, will need to be assessed. 
And this is therefore a further reason why Target should arrange a new valuation of the 
property  without cost to Mr T  to determine the current market value.
If the value of the property has increased in the meantime, then Mr T has made a gain 
through his increased equity in the property. And in that situation, the amount by which the 
property has increased in value (disregarding the share covered by the help to buy loan) will 
need to be offset from the financial losses set out above  and, if the property has increased 
substantially in value since, it may be that Mr T has not in fact suffered a financial loss at all. 
If, on the other hand, the value of the property has fallen since the 2019 valuation, the 
reduction in his equity will represent a further loss to Mr T, which would need to be added to 
the costs set out above.To be clear, this valuation will need to take place, and this calculation happen, whether or 
not Mr T is able to sell the property now. The reason for this is that Mr T has incurred losses 
 in the regular outgoings set out above, and potentially in the change in value of the 
property  whether or not he manages to sell it now. Thats because he should have been 
able to sell in 2019, and therefore the consequences of him not being able to do so fall to 
Target to put right. 
In upholding this complaint, I am directing Target to put right the consequences of the 
unfairness Ive set out above. Those consequences will need to be calculated, and Mr Ts 
losses as a result of this complaint crystallised. Following the conclusion of this complaint 
there should be no further barrier to Mr Ts redemption  so the loss that flows from this 
complaint is the losses to the end of the redress period Ive set out above. 
Depending on the change in value of the property, he may or may not have suffered a 
financial loss overall. But if he has, he is entitled to be compensated for it. Whether he is 
then able to go on and sell the property or otherwise repay the loan, within six months or at 
all, is separate to the losses he has been caused to date. If Mr T sells the property, he will 
not face further losses. And if he does not, whether through choice or through factors outside 
Targets control, Target is not responsible for losses that flow from that. 
However, if for any reason Mr T is unable to sell or redeem because of what he considers to 
be further failings or further unfairness on the part of Target following the conclusion of this 
complaint, he will be able to bring a future complaint about losses that result. 
The redress calculation
Once the new valuation has been carried out, and the market value and redemption amount 
determined, Target will then need to assess whether Mr T has in fact incurred any losses 
through its delay.
Target will need to calculate the redress due, if any, in the following way:
If the new valuation is higher than the 2019 valuation:
Calculate:
oThe increase in the value of the property, disregarding the 10% covered by 
the help to buy loan (A)
oThe redemption amount of the help to buy loan, based on the new valuation 
(B)
oThe redemption amount of the help to buy loan, based on the 2019 valuation 
(C)
oThe cumulative losses of owning the property, including interest, as set out 
above, to the end of the redress period (D)
In this situation, Mr Ts losses are the monthly costs (D) and the increase in the 
redemption figure (B  C). Against this is to be offset his gain (A). Therefore, Target 
should calculate D + (B  C)  A. 
If this produces a positive figure, Target should pay that amount to Mr T. If it 
produces zero or a negative figure, Mr T will not have suffered a financial loss overall 
and no payment (other than for his distress and inconvenience) will need to be made.
If the new valuation is lower than the 2019 valuation:Calculate:
oThe reduction in the value of the property, disregarding the 10% covered by 
the help to buy loan (E)
oThe redemption amount of the help to buy loan, based on the new valuation 
(F)
oThe redemption amount of the help to buy loan, based on the 2019 valuation 
(C)
oThe cumulative losses of owning the property, including interest, as set out 
above, to the end of the redress period (D)
In this situation, Mr Ts losses are the monthly costs (D), and the fall in value of his 
property (E). Against this should be offset the gain from the reduction in the cost of 
redemption (C  F). Therefore, Target should pay to Mr T the result of E + D  (C  
F)
Compensation for non-financial losses
As a result of Targets failure in this case, Mr Ts sale fell through. This has resulted in him 
owning and having to manage a property he no longer wants, in a different country to the 
one he lives in. As well as the practical inconvenience that has caused, the additional costs 
involved have caused him significant hardship, upset and embarrassment. He has struggled 
to meet his obligations. He has been forced to borrow both from commercial lenders and 
from friends and family  with the embarrassment that causes  to make ends meet.
This situation has been ongoing for almost three years, and Mr T has not known when it will 
end. This has caused him a great deal of strain. In all the circumstances, Im satisfied £2,000 
compensation is fair  and should be paid to him regardless of the outcome of the new 
valuation, and not offset against any gain (if there is one). Thats because, regardless of 
whether the delay has caused Mr T financial loss, or has led him to benefit from increased 
equity, he has had a very difficult and frustrating time  not least in meeting the costs of 
continuing to own the property (which he has had to pay out even if he also benefitted from 
increased equity he couldnt at the time realise). Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience independently of any financial loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Target 
Servicing Limited to:
Commission, at its own expense, a new valuation of Mr Ts property and use that 
valuation to determine the market value of his property and the repayment sum of his 
help to buy loan;
Following that valuation, carry out the calculation I have set out above and, if that 
results in loss, pay the result to Mr T. This calculation and payment should be made 
following sale of the property or six months after Mr T accepts my final decision, with 
final losses under heading D calculated to that date, whichever comes first;
Pay Mr T £2,000 compensation within 28 days of the date we notify Target that Mr T 
has accepted my final decision. If payment is not made by that date, simple annual 
interest of 8% will run from the 29th day until payment is made and should be added 
to the payment.
If any element of the eventual award  whether on losses under heading D or on the £2,000 compensation for non-financial loss  includes an 8% interest element, Target may deduct 
income tax on the 8% interest element as required by HMRC. But it should tell Mr T how 
much it has deducted so that he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman