DRN-1628324
The complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in relation to a mortgage. For ease Ill refer to the business 
as Halifax for the majority of the rest of this decision.  
What happened
Mr P took out a PPI policy when he applied for a mortgage in 1995. He paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. The PPI covered Mr P for accident and sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
Mr P has raised other service-related matters with us about Halifax. These are being dealt 
with separately to this complaint and Mr P has been provided the new reference for that 
complaint. This decision deals solely with the PPI sale to Mr P in 1995. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
As the adjudicator explained to Mr P previously, weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ps case. Where there is missing or insufficient evidence for me to consider, I need to 
make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider what I do 
have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on what I think most 
likely happened. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint for the reasons Ive set out below. I know Mr P 
will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope he finds my explanation helpful.
Its not straightforward trying to decide on cases when key documents from the time of the 
sale are missing as they are here. However, considering these events happened over 24 
years ago, its not surprising that I dont have all the documents from the time of the sale. 
Mr P recalls agreeing to the PPI but says that he did so because he was told he had to in 
order to get the mortgage. Ive not seen any evidence that supports that testimony. And Ive 
not seen any evidence that clearly shows Halifax didnt make Mr P aware the PPI was 
optional. Considering how long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on this point. So, having considered all the 
submissions I have received in this case, I think its more likely that Halifax wouldve made 
Mr P aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it, even though Mr P may not 
remember that now, many years later. 
Halifax cant say how it came to sell the PPI. So, it has assumed the policy was sold at a 
meeting through an advised sale. Mr P recalls the policy being sold during a meeting. So, 
whilst it makes no difference to the outcome of this complaint whilst placing a higher 
responsibility on Halifax during the sale, I have assessed the complaint as if it were sold on 
an advised basis during a meeting. This means that Halifax had to check that the PPI was 
right for Mr P. 
From what Mr P told us about his circumstances at the time of the sale, it seems that the PPI 
was right for Mr P. For example, Mr P was eligible for the policy and was not affected by any 
of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Mr P seems to have had a need for the 
cover. Whilst Mr P had good sick pay initially, it dropped significantly after six months, such 
that he may have needed to rely on some savings he told us he had. Mr P told us he had 
some savings but it seems that Mr P chose to protect any savings he may have had by not 
using them to reduce the mortgage he was taking. This policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months if Mr P was too ill to work and would have paid out in addition to whatever sick pay 
he had. And the policy would have further protected his savings. And it would have provided 
some financial protection in the event Mr P lost his job. 
So, thinking about this and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan 
secured on your home, I think the policy could have been useful for Mr P if something went 
wrong. 
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So, having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr P.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr P, Halifax also had to give him clear enough 
information about the policy so he could decide if he wanted to buy it. Its possible the 
information Halifax gave him was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for the same 
reasons I think the policy was suitable, Im not persuaded more or better information 
wouldve made a difference to his decision to take out the PPI. So, I dont think Mr P has lost 
out as a result of anything Halifax may have done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman