DRN-3741729
The complaint
Mrs R complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it advanced her loans. Had it carried out proper checks it 
wouldve discovered Mrs R couldnt afford them. 
What happened
Mrs R took five loans between October 2015 and October 2016. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 10/10/2015 23/01/2016 20 £15.00
2 £300.00 23/01/2016 25/07/2016 33 £15.00
3 £200.00 07/05/0216 18/10/2016 33 £10.00
4 £400.00 25/07/2016 07/07/2018 33 £20.00
5 £300.00 18/10/2016 10/05/2019 33 £15.00
The weekly repayment column above is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans 
overlapped the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 2 and 3 were running at the 
same time Mrs Rs weekly commitment was £25. 
Morses considered Mrs Rs complaint and issued its final response letter. Morses concluded 
it had made a reasonable decision to provide these loans and so it didnt uphold her 
complaint. 
Mrs Rs representatives didnt agree with the outcome reached by Morses and her 
representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who thought a reasonable decision to lend 
had been made for loans 1 - 4. But in the adjudicators view, loan 5 shouldnt have been 
granted as Mrs R was committed to using a significant portion of her income to meet the 
loan repayment.  
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation and Ive summarised its response 
below.
While loans 4 and 5 were running concurrently, the total repayments only 
represented 18% of her income and Morses doesnt consider this to be excessive. 
Loans 1  3 had been repaid early and she received an interest rebate. 
Loans 4 and 5 did run longer than the contracted term but Morses was aware of the 
reasons for this and forbearance is built into the way the loans are structured. 
Loan 5 was affordable for Mrs R at the point of sale. 
Mrs Rs representative confirmed receipt of the assessment but no further comments were 
provided.   
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this sort of lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs R could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number 
of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mrs 
Rs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs R. These factors include:
Mrs R having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs R having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs R coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs R.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs R could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs R was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Rs complaint.
Mrs R appears to have agreed with the outcome that the adjudicator reached and Morses 
hasnt disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about loans 1 - 4. Therefore, these loans 
are no longer in dispute, so I know longer think I must make a finding about them. But I have 
kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship. 
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses was right (or wrong) to have advanced 
loan 5. Loan 5
For this loan, Mrs R declared she had a weekly income of around £195 and Morses was 
aware that Mrs Rs income was solely made up of benefits.  Mrs R had outgoings of around 
£108. The outgoing figure included the repayment Mrs R was already making towards loan 
4. Which left around £87 per week to make her weekly repayment of £15. Overall, for loan 5, 
Mrs R had a weekly commitment to Morses of £35. 
However, in saying that I dont think, given what Ive seen that Morses made a fair decision 
when it decided to lend loan 5 to Mrs R. Im, therefore, upholding Mrs Rs complaint about it 
and Ive explained why below. 
As Morses has pointed out in response to our adjudicator, Mrs R was committed to spending 
around 18% of her income towards meeting her commitments to Morses when loan 5 was 
granted (and with loan 4 running concurrently). In my view these payments in this case were 
too high when considering what it knew about Mrs Rs circumstances. 
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk, in my view that Mrs R wouldnt have 
been able to meet her existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its 
unlikely Mrs R wouldve been able to sustainably meet her repayments for this loan.  Which, 
moving forward was shown, by the fact that Mrs R has struggled to repay not just this loan 
but also loan 4.
While Morses doesnt think those percentages are excessive I think they were. There is 
clearly going to be a line beyond which it wouldnt have been reasonable for Morses to lend, 
but thats going to be particular to the circumstances of each individual complaint. And whilst 
a large proportion is going to increase the likelihood in any case that something has gone 
wrong there isnt an automatic cut off  I will always look at the broader circumstances  as 
Ive done here. 
Im not suggesting that just because Mrs R had a modest income which was likely made up 
solely from benefits that funds couldnt be lent to her but what Morses needed to do is 
appreciate that taking into account the commitments that she had to it and over the time 
period was in my view not sustainable.  
Ive considered what Morses says in response to the adjudicator, but I dont think these 
comments change my mind. As Ive said above, some checks were carried out which may 
have shown the loans were affordable, but Morses also had to consider whether the loan 
was sustainable and I dont think, in this case it did that.
Based on what Ive seen Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint about this loan. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not given Mrs R loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs R may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mrs R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mrs R would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mrs R loan 5.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs R towards 
interest, fees and charges on the loan, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs 
R which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs R originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mrs R the total of A plus B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information you have recorded on Mrs Rs credit 
file in relation to loan 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give 
Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint in part. 
 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mrs R as Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman