DRN-1890990
 
The complaint
Mr M is complaining that a vehicle FCE Bank Plc (FCE) supplied him under a hire purchase 
agreement was of unsatisfactory quality,
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont set them out in detail. But, 
in summary, Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement through FCE in August 2018 to 
acquire a new vehicle. Shortly afterwards Mr M noticed an overspray by the windscreen. He 
says he also noticed water ingress when the water freezes in cold weather. He complained 
to the supplying dealership (SD). He thinks SD knowingly provided him with a vehicle that 
was damaged. He says he wouldnt have acquired the vehicle had he known it was 
previously damaged and repaired.
Mr M says he discussed this with SD for around 10 months, but he says it didnt resolve the 
matter. FCE initially offered to part-exchange the vehicle to enable him to replace it. But 
Mr M wasnt happy with this as a resolution, as he thought it would leave him around £4,000 
out of pocket.
But in August 2019 FCE said it would allow Mr M to reject the vehicle. It also said it would 
refund the deposit he paid, all the monthly instalments he made plus £4,000 he received in 
respect to a scrappage scheme. FCE also said it would allow him to keep the vehicle for a 
further three months, but it said hell only have to pay 50% of each monthly instalment during 
that time.
Mr M didnt want to accept this, so he referred his complaint to this service. Since then, Mr M 
says further repairs were carried out to the vehicle at SDs expense. But he says he cant 
say whether the repairs were successful or not until the weather becomes very cold.
Our investigator thought FCE had treated Mr M fairly with its offer, but asked FCE if it was 
willing to refund 50% of all the payments Mr M had made since August 2019 in addition to 
what it had previously offered. FCE confirmed it was willing to do so. But Mr M didnt accept 
this as he didnt think he should have to pay anything given whats happened. 
As Mr M didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M acquired the vehicle under a hire purchase agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implies a term into the hire purchase agreement that the 
vehicle must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, FCE is 
responsible for the quality of the vehicle its provided under the agreement.
FCE has accepted the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. So I havent 
commented on this further except to say I agree it wasnt. I also note Mr M says the vehicle 
was misrepresented to him because he doesnt think it was new and he thinks the dealership 
knowingly sold him a damaged vehicle. But I dont think Ive seen anything to support this. 
Given the vehicles mileage, I dont think it was a used vehicle. I also havent seen anything 
to show SD was aware of the faults before it sold the vehicle. But, as I said, its accepted the 
vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. The issue I have to decide is 
whether I think FCE has taken fair steps to put things right.
Im conscious Mr M has told us that further repairs were done to the vehicle and I havent 
seen anything to suggest that these werent successful. Given it appears the issues have 
been resolved, its arguable that FCE didnt have to allow Mr M to reject the vehicle. But it 
has agreed to do so, so I dont need to make a finding in respect to this either.
FCE has offered to refund the deposit Mr M made and the contribution hes received in 
respect to the scrappage scheme. I think this is fair and in line with what I would have 
required it to do after allowing Mr M to reject the vehicle. Its also agreed to refund all 
monthly payments made up to August 2019 and 50% payment of each monthly payment 
made thereafter.
Mr M doesnt think he should have to pay anything towards the finance because of the 
issues hes had. But I dont agree. Mr M has had full use of the vehicle throughout this time. I 
dont dispute it was upsetting for him to find the issues he did  especially given he acquired 
a new vehicle and the fact that he has two sons with health issues. However, the issues with 
the vehicle havent affected his ability to use it and I understand he and his family have used 
it throughout this time. 
Given this I think FCE could have fairly required Mr M to make his monthly repayments for 
the time hes had the vehicle. So I think FCEs offer is more than what I would have required 
it to do. 
Ive considered the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused. I note Mr Ms 
strength of feeling in respect to this and I appreciate this has had a significant impact on him 
and his family  especially given the disabilities his sons have. And I appreciate Mr M is very 
unhappy with what has happened. 
Im conscious it took around 12 months to resolve this issue and it appears Mr M was in 
contact with SD throughout this time. I agree FCE should compensate Mr M for this. But I 
also have to take into account that FCE has agreed to refund around £5,000 worth of 
monthly repayments in addition to the deposit and scrappage scheme contribution. And, as I 
said above, this is more than I would have awarded  inclusive of any compensation 
payment. So I dont think FCE needs to offer anything further than this.
In summary, FCE has agreed to do the following to resolve this complaint:
1. Allow Mr M to reject the vehicle and collect it at no cost to him;
2. End the agreement with nothing further to pay;
3. Refund the deposit Mr M paid of £3,295;
4. Pay him £4,000 in respect to the scrappage scheme contribution paid at the start of the 
agreement;
5. Refund all monthly payments Mr M made up to August 2019; and
6. Refund 50% of the monthly payments Mr M was required to make since August 2019.
I think this is fair compensation in the circumstances of this complaint. However, given 
Mr Ms family situation, I do think FCE should give Mr M a reasonable period of time to 
acquire a replacement vehicle. I think six weeks is a fair timeframe for this. My final decision
I think FCE Bank Plcs offer to resolve the complaint as Ive set out above is fair. It should 
contact Mr M directly to arrange this. However, it should give him six weeks from the date of 
accepting the decision before it ends the agreement and arranges to collect the vehicle. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before date. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman