DRN-3761605
The complaint
Mrs F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC Bank) irresponsibly gave her credit that 
she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 15 September 2020 Mrs F took out a loan for £18,000, a term of 72 months and an initial 
payment of £302.41 followed by 71 monthly payments of £302.60.  
In 2022, Mrs F complained to HSBC Bank to say that she was not working when she took 
out the loan and so HSBC Bank should not have provided her with credit.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. HSBC Bank didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
HSBC Bank will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
HSBC Bank needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs F 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that HSBC Bank should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought HSBC Bank shouldnt have provided 
Mrs F with the loan. Having considered all the submissions made to me in this case, I am 
agreeing with our adjudicator and for the same reasons. 
In this case the size of the loan, especially when considering the total amount that would be 
repaid over the term of the loan, should have, I think, lead HSBC Bank to conduct a 
proportionate check that checked Mrs Fs financial situation more fully than they did. 
HSBC Bank needed to take into account everything it knew about its customer when 
deciding to lend. And I think that a proportionate check would have seen HSBC Bank use 
the information about Mrs F that they had at their disposal when making its lending 
decisions. 
HSBC Bank told us that Mrs F told them during the application that she was earning 
£30,000 a year. But HSBC Bank has provided no evidence to support that testimony. In any 
event, in this case HSBC Bank had an existing customer relationship with Mrs F, as she 
held a current account with them. Mrs F has provided us with copies of her bank statements 
for her Advance account from these times, held with HSBC Bank. And the information on 
that account readily showed, or ought easily to have shown, that Mrs F was not receiving 
income from any paid employment. And HSBC Bank ought to have been able to see that 
through any basic enquiry about their own customer. 
HSBC Bank also told us that its assessment of Mrs Fs credit history didnt put them off 
lending to her. Referring to Mrs F, they said, The review of recent adverse credit 
performance at the credit bureau or on HSBC products, evidenced they had low levels of 
external lending. And yet HSBC Bank also told us that Mrs F had told them the purpose of 
the loan was for debt consolidation of non-HSBC Bank lending. But HSBC Bank have told 
us the credit information they had at the time they made their lending decision, suggested 
Mrs F had low levels of external lending. And yet, knowing that the credit information it held 
didnt sit well alongside the application data, instead of choosing to question Mrs F more 
closely about this, HSBC Bank chose to go ahead with the lending.
So, it seems to me that either of these two issues in themselves, ought to have suggested to 
HSBC Bank that things were not right in Mrs Fs application for the loan. There seems to me 
to have been two significant things wrong with this application, and HSBC Bank chose not to 
let these things deter them from providing the credit Mrs F asked them for. But I think these 
two things ought to have suggested to HSBC Bank that they shouldnt have proceeded with 
the lending on the basis they did. 
I think that Mrs F lost out because HSBC Bank provided her with credit from 15 September 
2020 onwards. In my view, HSBC Banks actions allowed her to use credit she couldnt 
afford over an extended period of time and the interest being added got her into further debt. 
So, for the above reasons I uphold Mrs Fs complaint about HSBC Bank. And so, HSBC 
Bank should put things right.Putting things right
As I dont think HSBC Bank ought to have lent Mrs F the loan, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. But I think Mrs F should 
pay back the amount she has borrowed. Therefore, HSBC Bank should:
Rework the credit removing all interest and charges that have been applied, so that 
Mrs F only needs to pay back the capital she borrowed. 
If Mrs F has paid back more than the capital she borrowed, any overpayments  
should be refunded to her along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. HSBC Bank should also remove 
all adverse information regarding this credit from Mrs Fs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, HSBC Bank should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs F for the remaining amount. Once 
Mrs F has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the credit 
should be removed from her credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC Bank to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
HSBC Bank must give Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she 
asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so 
after deducting the tax.
Because my reasons for upholding have nothing to do with the personal information Mrs F 
has shared about herself, I agree with the adjudicator that I have seen insufficient evidence 
to warrant a charitable write off in this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im fully upholding Mrs Fs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman