DRN-3601128
The complaint
Mr A complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAML) failed to 
correctly execute his instructions for his ISA transfer. 
What happened
Mr A wanted to partially transfer funds from his instant access cash ISA which was held by a 
third party. Mr A initially submitted his request on 14 and 19 April 2021. These were not 
processed as the third party explained there were insufficient funds for the transfer  less 
then £20,000. 
Mr A contacted HLAML to discuss the transfer. During this call Mr A was incorrectly informed 
that he was able to submit a partial transfer request online. Mr A submitted the request 
online, however the third party carried out a full transfer, rather than a partial one of £20,000. 
As a result, the full ISA amount of £20,508.45 held with the third party was credited to Mr As 
HLAMLs stocks and shares ISA.
HLAML realised its mistake and says it contacted the third party in order for the £508.45 to 
be returned to it. However, the third party explained this was not possible as the ISA had 
been totally closed down. Mr A would need to open a new ISA if he wanted the funds 
returned. 
HLAML paid Mr A £150 in recognition of its mistake  however, Mr A says this is inadequate 
as he has lost investment opportunity and his credit file has been negatively affected. 
Dissatisfied with HLAMLs response Mr A referred his complaint to this service. An 
Investigator reviewed the complaint and found HLAMLs response to his complaint was 
reasonable. Mr A remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr As experience, and I understand the issues with his ISA have been a 
source of frustration, and he has spent time and effort pursuing his complaint. Mr A says 
HLAML has made a mistake and it needs to do more to rectify this. Based on the evidence I 
have seen I dont think HLAML needs to take any further action. Ill explain why. 
HLAML has accepted that when Mr A made enquiries about making a transfer from his ISA 
he was incorrectly informed he could submit this request online. The online process with the 
third party does not allow partial transfer, and as a result the entire amount held in the ISA 
by the third party was transferred out. HLAML shouldve been aware of this and provided 
clear and accurate information to Mr A. I can see it has apologised for its mistake and paid 
Mr A £150 in recognition of the impact the error has had on him.
Mr A says HLAMLs payment is inadequate. In particular he says he has lost out on 
investment growth, but specific details of this havent been provided. I can see that since the 
transfer was completed, Mr A hasnt used the funds for any further investment. Although Mr 
As instructions werent accurately followed, Mr A still had the £20,000 transferred over to 
HLAML and he couldve proceeded to use these funds as he wished whilst his complaint 
was reviewed. So, I dont think there is enough here for me to say Mr A has lost out on 
investment growth or opportunity. 
Mr A has also raised concerns about his credit file being adversely affected. I havent seen 
Mr As credit file, but the ISA account he held with the third party is a savings product and 
not something which is recorded on a credit file. This means its unlikely there would be an 
entry about the ISA on Mr As credit report.
I understand Mr A doesnt think the £150 offered by HLAML is enough. Reaching an award 
for distress and inconvenience is seldom straightforward. The issues involved are subjective 
by their very nature and the impact on the consumer can be difficult to determine. But 
HLAML has acknowledged its error, and I can see it attempted to contact the third party 
which held the ISA to try and resolve the issue. Mr A was given an explanation of the cause 
of the problem, and his concerns were looked into. Im satisfied the £150 compensation 
award recognised the inconvenience caused. I wouldnt expect HLAML to do anymore in 
relation to this issue.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on his complaint. But this 
final decision ends what our service can do for him in respect of this complaint. However, he 
can reject my decision and pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr A complaint as Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited has already paid Mr A fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its error caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman