DRN-1745661
The complaint 
Mr A complains that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
him alongside a mortgage in 1993. 
Background
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr A disagreed with that view 
and he strongly believed PPI had been mis-sold to him. He said he was pressured into 
taking the policy out. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A, but I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Looking at the evidence before me, I can see that PPI was sold to Mr A during a meeting 
between the parties. I cant know what was said during that meeting. So, to help me decide 
whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at what the parties told us about it. And Ive also 
considered the paperwork thats available from the time. 
Where the facts of a case are in dispute (as they are here), I will make my decision by 
applying the balance of probabilities. What that means is that I will decide what is most likely 
to have happened based on the evidence before me. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr A was given a genuine choice about buying PPI 
and knew he could refuse it if he didnt want it. I appreciate Mr A said he was pressured into 
buying this policy. But he hasnt given any specific detail about what Bradford & Bingley said 
or did to make him feel under stress. I note that Mr A was able to refuse other financial 
products that were offered to him at the same time. If he was pressured, its not clear to me 
why he would have been able to refuse some financial products over others. The notion of 
pressure is a very subjective matter and what one person feels amounts to pressure, 
another may not. In the absence of any details about what Bradford & Bingley said or did, I 
cant find its most likely that Mr A was pressured to take this cover. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing Mr As mortgage and PPI application form. From that, I can see 
that in order for PPI to be added to his mortgage, Mr A had to write yes or no in the 
appropriate box. If he didnt want a PPI policy, I think this section could have just been left 
blank. As I said above, Mr A also refused some other financial products that were offered, so 
I think he would have known he didnt have to select this cover if he didnt want it. Bradford & Bingley said that this wasnt an advised sale. Mr A says it was. Ive accepted 
what Mr A says on this point, noting particularly that the cover was sold during a meeting. So 
that means Bradford & Bingley had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr As needs. 
To help me decide whether this cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions 
of the cover. And Ive also looked at what Mr A told us about his personal circumstances at 
the time. 
I can see that if Mr A had to make a claim on this cover, his mortgage repayments would 
have been covered for up to 12 months if he became unwell or if he lost his job. I can see 
that Mr A did in fact make a claim on this policy and he was paid for the maximum period. 
His claim ended in 1996. 
Mr A told us that he couldnt remember how much sick pay he received at the relevant time  
thats perfectly understandable given the cover was sold 27 years ago. He also said that he 
had some significant savings that he could have used to pay his mortgage if he was out of 
work. Mr A hasnt been able to give us any more detail about the amount of his savings and 
he understandably doesnt have any documentary evidence available from that time. 
However, even if I accept that Mr A would have had some sick pay and savings, I dont think 
that would have made the cover unsuitable. I must stress that this loan was secured on Mr 
As home and the consequences if he couldnt make his repayments could have been 
serious. With PPI, Mr A would have been able to use his existing resources on his other 
essential expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time for him if he 
was out of work. 
Mr A was in good health at the time he bought this cover, so I dont think he would have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I havent seen 
anything unusual about his wider circumstances that would have stopped him from making a 
successful claim if he needed to. And as I said above, I can see that Mr A was able to claim 
in 1995/96. 
With all of this in mind, Im satisfied that the cover was suitable for Mr As needs when it was 
sold. 
Even so, Bradford & Bingley still had to give Mr A enough information about the cover so he 
could decide for himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. I accept its possible that 
Bradford & Bingley didnt tell Mr A everything it should have done about the cover. But Ive 
set out above how PPI could have been helpful if Mr A couldnt work  and again, he did 
actually make a successful claim on this policy. So I dont think he would have changed his 
mind about taking the cover out even if hed been given more or better information about it. 
I appreciate Mr A feels strongly that the cover was mis-sold. Im sorry to disappoint him, but 
for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold his complaint and I dont require Bradford & 
Bingley to take any further action in respect of it. 
My final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint about Bradford & Bingley Plc. 
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman