DRN-2417795
The complaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc allowed a fraudster to access his account and 
amend the phone number. 
What happened
Capital One says it received a call on 3 September 2019 from someone who had Mr Bs 
personal information. The caller was able to provide answers to Capital Ones security 
questions and the phone number associated with the account was changed.  
On 9 September 2019 Mr B called Capital One as he noticed a payment for £599 he didnt 
recognise on his account. Mr B asked Capital One to investigate the transaction and it 
subsequently agreed it was fraudulent. The payment was reversed. 
Capital One added Mr Bs details to the CIFAS database to help protect him against fraud in 
the future. 
In October 2019 Mr B complained and said that he had been declined an interest free loan 
due to the CIFAS information. 
Capital One responded to Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. Capital One said the 
fraudster had correctly provided Mr Bs personal details when answering security questions 
and that CIFAS has no bearing on how credit applications are considered by lenders. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
the fraudster had given the correct responses to Capital Ones security questions before 
amending the phone number. They also thought Capital Ones decision to refund the 
fraudulent payment and add Mr Bs details to CIFAS were reasonable. 
Mr B didnt accept and said inadequate security at Capital One had allowed his number to be 
changed. Mr B said Capital One had failed to protect his identity and asked to appeal. As Mr 
B asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how concerned Mr B is that a fraudster was able to give Capital One the 
necessary answers to pass its security questions. Mr B says that his name, address and 
date of birth arent confidential and security questions based on them arent fit for purpose. I 
understand Mr Bs concerns and that it was a shock to find someone had not only spent 
money from his Capital One credit card but also managed to change his phone number. 
However, I havent found that Capital One acted unfairly in this case. Ill explain why. 
Capital One can choose what security questions and processes it has in place to protect 
accounts. I understand that Mr B feels the questions asked werent based on confidential 
information, but Capital One is free to decide what questions it asks when identifying 
customers. Our service doesnt have the power to tell a business to change the way it 
operates or what security questions to ask when customers call. 
Ive listened to the call in question. Like the investigator, I didnt hear anything that I think 
would have caused Capital One to find the call concerning or unusual. The fraudster was 
able to provide Mr Bs personal information which was sufficient to amend the phone number 
on the account. 
Once Mr B spoke with Capital One it took action to reverse the transaction which means 
there was no loss to the account. Im pleased the transaction was reversed so Mr B didnt 
lose out. 
Capital One says it referred Mr Bs details to CIFAS due to concerns over other attempts at 
fraud. I understand Mr B is concerned that his ability to obtain credit has been impacted as a 
result. But information of this nature is used to identify the consumer and not to assess a 
credit application. Mr B has confirmed he was able to secure credit elsewhere. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. I agree 
someone was able to access his account but that was only after they provided private 
information about Mr B. Capital One reversed the transaction and has taken steps to try and 
protect Mr B from fraud by adding his details to CIFAS. As Im satisfied Capital One has 
dealt with this complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman