DRN-3534174
The complaint
Miss N complains about Santander UK Plc (Santander) holding her liable for a direct debit 
she says she did not authorise. 
Miss N has a representative in this matter.  For simplicity, I have referred to the 
representatives actions and submissions as being those of Miss N.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In summary, Miss N is disputing a £650 direct debit from her Santander account to a 
company which I will refer to as Company P in this decision.  This direct debit occurred on 
30 April 2021.  Miss N contacted Santander explaining that she neither had a direct debit 
linked to a Company P account, nor did she authorise the set-up of one.  Santander credited 
a temporary refund to Miss Ns account and raised a direct debit indemnity.  Company P 
challenged this by providing evidence to suggest Miss N engaged Company Ps penny test 
verification process thereby setting up a direct debit linking her Santander account to the 
Company P account in question.  Consequently, Santander reversed the temporary refund 
and did not take the matter further.
Unhappy with this, Miss N raised a complaint which she also referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  In short, he held 
that the penny test code required to set-up the direct debit was used by Miss N or provided 
by her to a third-party to use.  Therefore, he did not ask Santander to do anything further.
Santander responded stating it had nothing further to add to the investigators findings, but 
Miss N responded disagreeing with them.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before dealing with the £650 direct debit, I think it would be sensible to first deal with the 
penny test. 
In short, the penny test is a verification process which Company P use to link their accounts 
to bank accounts.  Company P will credit a penny to a customers bank account which will 
include a unique code appearing on the customers statement.  The customer then needs to 
use this code to set-up a direct debit.  Once this process is completed, payments made 
through the Company P account will be debited from the linked bank account via direct debit. 
With the above in mind, there are three possible scenarios in this case regarding the set-up 
of the direct debit:
a) Miss N authorised the set-up of the direct debit by setting it up herself.
b) Miss N authorised a third-party to set-up the direct debit by providing them her 
consent to do so.
c) A third-party set-up the direct debit without Miss Ns consent.
I should highlight that I can only consider upholding this complaint if scenario (c) applies.
I have seen evidence which shows that Company P credited a penny to Miss Ns account 
on 15 January 2020, which included a code (details of which I described above).  This 
suggests that Company Ps penny test verification process was engaged, which set-up the 
direct debit in question.  However, Miss N disputes having done this, which I have thought 
about carefully.  In doing so, I take the view that, on balance, it is more likely than not that 
either scenario (a) or (b) applies in this case.
One of the most persuasive reasons why I say this is because of the length of time it took 
before the direct debit was utilised.  13 months had passed between when the penny test 
process was engaged, to when the £650 direct debit occurred.  To my mind, this is wholly 
out-of-character for an opportunistic fraudster. I consider it unlikely that a third party would 
go to the risk of: obtaining Miss Ns bank details, go through the penny test verification 
process to set-up a direct debit linked to her account  and then wait 13 months before 
utilising it.  With these types of cases, it is more indicative of fraudulent behaviour for a 
fraudster to maximise the spending of any account they have taken the risk to compromise.  
Further to this, I have seen no evidence to suggest that Miss Ns Santander bank account 
was compromised around the time the penny test process was engaged.
I do acknowledge the fact that the Company P account in question was/is not in Miss Ns 
name.  However, when I take the above points together with the fact that ones bank account 
does not necessarily have to be linked to ones Company P account for direct debit 
collections  I am still persuaded that either scenario (a) or (b) applies.
It follows that when turning to the £650 direct debit, I am satisfied that on balance, either 
Miss N authorised this herself or authorised another to do so.  It only seems logical that if 
Miss N authorised the set-up of the direct debit  that she would also authorise the use of it.
It appears Miss N reported fraud on her account to Santander a few weeks prior to the £650 
direct debit (in April 2021).  However, I am not persuaded that this is linked to the disputed 
direct debit  particularly given the fact that the penny test process was engaged in January 
2020, and there was no fraud reported around that time.  
I note that a £850 direct debit to Company P was returned to Miss Ns account on 30 April 
2021.  Santander has said that this was reversed as Miss Ns account had insufficient funds 
for the payment.  Having considered this, I am persuaded that scenario (a) or (b) applies  
for much the same reasons I have already provided.
Taking all the above points together, I will not be asking Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman