DRN-4438281
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M are unhappy with the service provided by Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited (LV) when dealing with a claim under their home emergency insurance 
policy.
 
Mrs M and Mr M are both parties to this complaint. Mrs M has primarily dealt with this 
service. For ease of reference I have referred to Mrs M throughout this final decision. 
What happened
Mrs M took out a home insurance policy underwritten by LV. The policy included buildings 
and contents cover (with an excess of £350 for each claim), and home emergency cover. 
The policy terms for home emergency cover included the following definition:
Permanent Repair
Where possible, we'll look to complete a permanent repair if this can be carried out 
during the same visit and at a similar cost to a temporary repair.
There will be times when this won't be possible such as:
 where decorations, fixtures, fittings, and outside surfaces are damaged when 
providing emergency assistance.
In June 2022 Mrs M called LV to to advise of a leaking radiator at the property. LVs 
engineer attended, and it was recorded Found water escaping down the pipe to the radiator. 
Potential a screw has gone through one of the pipes. Cut a small hole to investigate however 
found a thick wooden wall behind. Building insurance required to investigate further, wall will 
need a much larger hole cut out to pinpoint leak
The next day a representative from LV called Mrs M to discuss the outcome of her claim. 
The call note recorded advised of Eng [engineer] notes and that T&A [trace and access] is 
required, PH will speak to BI [buildings insurance], happy to close claim. Mrs M 
subsequently asked a local plumber to investigate the leak, and repair it. This was done at a 
cost of £168 to Mrs M. Mrs M also made a claim on her buildings insurance for the damage 
to her home caused by the leak. The excess of £350 was paid by Mrs M following this claim. 
LV arranged for repairs to be completed to the kitchen/diner and ensuite [including] painting, 
decorating and plastering. 
In June 2023 Mrs M contacted LV to complain about the increase in the cost of her home 
insurance. Mrs M was concerned that this cost increase had happened directly because of 
the claim that shed made on her policy. Mrs M said, the damage would not happened if the 
man from HE [home emergency] had dealt with the plumbing repairs efficiently. 
LV accepted that the buildings claim hadnt been dealt with in line with their usual service 
standards because of the time taken to complete repairs. LV offered Mrs M £100 by way of a 
cheque in recognition of this poor service. Unhappy with LVs response, Mrs M referred her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman service for investigation. 
The investigator found that as the home emergency couldnt be resolved, it was reasonable 
for LV to have referred Mrs M to claim on her buildings insurance instead. The investigator 
also explained that LV ought to have correctly informed Mrs M that the trace and access part 
of investigating the leak would be covered by her buildings insurance cover. 
LV agreed to reimburse the £168 Mrs M had paid to a plumber to repair the leak, plus 8% 
per annum simple interest on this amount to reflect the time Mrs M had been without this 
money. Mrs M didnt accept the investigators findings. Mrs M said that LV should refund the 
cost of the excess she had to pay, because If the job had been completed on the first visit 
it would have been an end to the matter I was under the impression that one of the 
reasons insurance companies offered Home Emergency Cover was to attend to incidents as 
quickly as possible thereby reducing the cost of damage caused. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main point of dispute in this complaint is whether Mrs Ms home emergency policy ought 
to have covered the reported leak. Mrs M strongly feels LVs appointed engineer didnt do 
enough to find, and repair the leak, when attending to her home emergency call out. Mrs M 
has explained how The reinforcement behind the plasterboard is an ordinary sheet of 
plywood which is standard for the job of supporting the small radiator. It was a fairly swift job 
for the Trace & Access engineer to cut through it.
Ive reviewed the engineers comments in the report completed following the call out. Im 
satisfied that the engineer took reasonable steps to investigate the leak, and determine the 
source of it. The engineers report includes images of the radiator where the leak was 
suspected, and images to show the impacted area after investigation work had been carried 
out. The images show removal of some plasterboard, and clear indication of a wooden wall 
behind the plasterboard preventing any further immediate access. I think the engineers 
assessment of the level of intrusion required to further cut through the wooden board, and 
referring Mrs M to instead make a claim through her buildings insurance, was reasonable. 
Mrs Ms policy includes cover for trace and access of a leak. The invoice provided by Mrs M 
to evidence the work completed by her own plumber doesnt break down the cost of trace 
and access, and repair of the leak. LV have agreed to cover the full cost of the invoice 
provided by Mrs M. As Mrs Ms policy wouldnt cover repair of the leak itself, Im satisfied 
what LV have offered to cover in the circumstances is reasonable.  
Mrs M has requested return of the insurance excess of £350 that she paid following the 
claim on her buildings cover. But Im satisfied that the referral to make a claim on Mrs Ms 
buildings policy to further investigate the leak was reasonable. Ive also taken into 
consideration the type of home emergency policy held by Mrs M (add-on), the cost of this 
additional benefit, and what is what designed to cover. In doing so, Im satisfied Mrs Ms 
home emergency was investigated in line with the policy terms. As it couldnt be resolved, 
LV correctly informed Mrs M to claim on her buildings insurance policy. 
It was for Mrs M to decide whether to claim on her buildings insurance policy once her own 
plumber had attended to repair the leak. Mrs M decided to pursue with a claim under her home insurance policy to cover the damage caused by the leak. So its reasonable that LV 
applied an excess to the cost of this claim, in line with the policy terms.  
Ive seen that repairs to the damage caused by the leak were completed in full. This includes 
to the kitchen/diner and ensuite [including] painting, decorating and plastering. On balance, 
although I accept the scope of the claim mightve been different if LV hadnt caused a delay, 
Im satisfied LV completed repairs in line with the policy terms. And the crux of Mrs Ms 
complaint isnt about the delay in itself, but rather that the buildings claim couldve been 
avoided if LV had dealt with the leak as part of her home emergency claim. But for reasons 
Ive already explained Im satisfied that the work completed as part of the home emergency 
call out was reasonable, based on the engineers assessment at the time.
I appreciate Mrs Ms disappointment with this outcome. This situation has clearly left Mrs M 
feeling upset, and financially out of pocket. But I havent seen any evidence to persuade me 
that LVs actions in assessing Mrs Ms home emergency claim, were wrong, or unfair. I do 
think LV ought to have provided clearer information about covering the cost of the trace and 
access part of Mrs Ms claim. LV have now agreed to do this. I think LVs agreement to put 
things right is fair, and in line with what this service would recommend in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
LV is directed to do the following:
- LV must reimburse Mrs M the cost of the plumbers invoice for £168. LV must pay 
8% per annum simple interest from the date this payment was made by Mrs M to the 
date the claim is settled*.
- If the cheque for £100 offered to Mrs M in LVs final response letter has not been 
cashed, re-issue this cheque.
 
*If LV considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman