DRN-2547054
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr K complain that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs K and Mr K bought a regular premium MPPI policy in May 1993. The policy was sold in 
a meeting alongside a mortgage. They mortgage ended in August 1999. Both Mrs K and Mr 
K were covered against accidents, sickness and unemployment.
Mrs K and Mr K say they were misled and told the policy was a condition of having the 
mortgage. They say they didnt need the policy as they had adequate cover from their 
employers. They say they have paperwork that clearly shows they were never advised the 
policy was optional. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint. As They dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs K and Mr Ks case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold        
Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint because of the following reasons:
Mrs K and Mr K say Halifax misled them and told them having the policy was a 
condition of obtaining the mortgage. 
I acknowledge everything Mrs K and Mr K has said. I cant be sure exactly what was 
discussed between Mrs K and Mr K and Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also 
mindful that the sale took place many years ago, and that detailed recollections of 
what happened can fade over time.
Halifax hasnt provided much documentation from the time the policy was sold. Thats 
not surprising given the time thats passed, and its similar to some other cases Ive 
seen. Mrs K and Mr K have produced some documentation, most of which is from 
after the sale took place. But they have provided a mortgage agreement document 
from the date of sale. On this page it shows one cost for two types of insurance and 
so on balance I cant see that Halifax provided clear information about the cost of the 
MPPI policy. But like our adjudicator, I havent been able to see enough of the sales 
documentation at the time of sale to understand more about how the MPPI policy 
was presented to Mrs K and Mr K. At least not enough that I can safely conclude they 
were told it was a condition of their mortgage.
Without anything else to support what Mrs K and Mr K have told me and based on 
what I know of sales conducted by Halifax during that time and also with what I have 
already concluded, I cant safely conclude that Halifax didnt make them aware that 
the policy was optional. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mrs K and Mr K during the 
meeting and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business, I will proceed 
that this was the case. So, as it did recommend the policy to Mrs K and Mr K, it had 
to ensure during the sale that the policy was suitable for their needs. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy was 
unsuitable for Mrs K and Mr K based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. Mrs K and Mr K say they would have both been able to use their 6 months full 
and 6 months half sick pay but the MPPI policy would have paid in addition to any 
provisions they would have had and for longer. So, the benefit would have been of 
use to Mrs K and Mr K during a difficult time as they could have used their provisions 
to pay for other expenses. I think, on balance, Mrs K and Mr K had a need for this 
cover based on their circumstances at the date of sale, for any extended period of 
unemployment or sickness. I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant 
or limiting term that would make the policy unsuitable for them either.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI policy 
that Mrs K and Mr K took out but as I have already concluded, I cannot be sure that 
these costs were disclosed to Mrs K and Mr K in a clear and fair way at the time of 
sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly, I dont think Mrs K and Mr K 
would have done anything different and decided against having the policy for the 
reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs K and Mr K wouldve been affected by any of these.
I understand this will come as a disappointment but in conclusion I do not uphold Mrs K and 
Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs K and Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman