DRN-3187435
The complaint
Mr H says Gate Capital Group Ltd (trading as PlutusGroup Ltd) gave him unsuitable advice 
to transfer four of his pensions into a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP), where his 
funds were overseen by a discretionary fund management service. Mr H says hes suffered 
considerable financial detriment.
Gate Capital is represented by Kennedys Law.
What happened
Mr H met with Gate Capital in September 2015 to review his pension arrangements. He was 
a member of several schemes and plans. Four were the focus of the advice he received at 
this time, his:
- Thales defined benefit scheme (DBS) with a transfer value of around £552,000.
- Fidelity defined contribution scheme (DCS) with a transfer value of about £107,000.
- Prudential DCS with a transfer value of around £88,000.
- Aegon DCS with a transfer value of about £26,000.
Gate Capital gathered information about Mr Hs circumstances, objectives and risk appetite. 
It made various recommendations to him about what he should do with these funds in two 
reports (one of which was dedicated to his Thales DBS).
In summary, Gate Capital advised Mr H to transfer all four pension pots into a Beaufort SIPP 
operated by Gaudi Regulated Service Limited. It recommended his funds should be 
overseen by Beaufort Securities (BS) DFM service. Ultimately Mr H was persuaded to 
accept the advice he received.
In 2016 Gate Capital gave Mr H separate advice to transfer another of his pension pots into 
the same SIPP. That transaction is the subject of a separate complaint.
Unfortunately, Mr Hs new pension arrangements didnt work out well. He raised a complaint. 
And he first approached this Service in August 2017, when his focus was on the role of BS. 
He made further complaints to us in 2018, this time also concerning Gate Capital.
Mr Hs cases were subsequently considered by an Ombudsman in terms of our jurisdiction 
to review the issues hed raised; and in thinking about the transactions between him and 
Gate Capital, the correct number of separate complaints that had effectively been raised.
Ive reviewed the Ombudsmans conclusions in respect of these matters, and I agree with 
him. Its not necessary to rehearse what he said in full. The following extracts from his 
conclusions of 24 October 2018 (our jurisdiction) and 18 November 2019 (how many 
complaints) summarise matters well enough.
Can we consider Mr Hs complaints?
Our service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that as a public body we dont have a general, at large, 
power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and the rules made 
under it say we can  this sets the boundaries of our scheme. And we have no legal power 
to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction.
FSMA gives the FCA the power to say what complaints we can and cant consider. The FCA 
has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of the FCA Handbook (also known as 
DISP or the DISP rules).
When initially engaging with the Service about Mr Hs complaints, Gate Capital said it had 
sent Mr H its final response letter (FRL) in August 2017 and because he hadnt raised the 
matter with us until March 2018, he was out of time. The rules at DISP 2.8.2 (1) say he had 
to complain within 6 months of its FRL. The complaint hed raised in August 2017 was about 
a different firm (BS).
The Ombudsman considered what had happened. Gate Capitals recommendations to Mr H 
related to the transfer four of his pensions into a SIPP, where his funds were overseen by 
BS which provided a DFM service He concluded there were elements of Mr Hs 2018 
complaint that we could consider. But he agreed certain aspects of his case were time-
barred. The following extracts from his October 2018 decision summarise the position:
[The Investigator] sent you the key referenced [email] on the day she set up [Mr Hs] 
complaint (on 27 March 2018). That email was the one to this Service (on the [BS] 
complaint) [from Mr H] on 23 March. From that email, I dont agree [Mr H] had ever made 
these numbered complaint points from that email to Plutus before:
2. I was approaching retirement and therefore it was not appropriate to engage with 
a high risk, long term pension product such as a SIPP.
3. I was advised to withdraw my funds (cash in) from a final salary pension plan
As you know, the previous complaint that [Mr H] made (and the only complaint Plutus had 
been required to address) was sent to both Plutus and Beaufort on 16 June 2017. In 
summary it was about the investmentsmade for (i.e. within) the SIPP; it questioned 
whether the portfolio (again, within the SIPP) was appropriate for a medium risk investor; 
and went on to make a few other points that would more properly fall on Beaufort itself to 
address. As you know, weve since looked at a complaint against Beaufort which is now in 
the hands of the FSCS.
Notably, [Mr Hs] email of 16 June 2017 concluded, The end point I am looking for as a 
result of inappropriate investments is for full restoration back to the starting point and to 
include investment losses I have incurred from the start of my SIPP in December 2015. It 
wasnt seeking to be put back into the former pension plans [Mr H] had been in before he 
started the SIPP, or for compensation to be calculated by reference to those plans  which 
were not mentioned in the complaint at all.
we have jurisdiction under DISP 2.8.2(1) because that rule was never triggered in respect 
of any complaints about transfers into the SIPP.
With regard to Gate Capitals recommendation for Mr H to use BS and the DFM 
arrangement, the Ombudsman went on to draw some important conclusions. These were 
relevant not only to what we could consider, but also framed any redress that might be due 
in the event that the merits of Mr Hs complaint were subsequently upheld.
Ive considered our jurisdiction over this [element of Mr Hs] complaint further. Taking into 
account all the circumstances, I agree I was wrong to conclude that [Mr H] referred a 
complaint to us in time about the recommendation to use BeaufortI should point out that the complaint against Beaufort was originally referred to us by phone on 15 August 2017, 
and having listened to the recording, I found Plutus name was not mentioned in that phone 
call
[Mr Hs] understanding of what he was doing at the time is just as important. He didnt 
originally use the line of argument that he thought he was referring two complaints to us 
back in August 2017. Instead he felt that he had exceptional circumstances that resulted in 
him referring the Plutus one to us too late. Theres also an admission of that in his email to 
[the Investigator] on 23 March 2018, which is the first point at which [Mr H] says that he 
wants to continue the complaint he originally started with Plutus; and that its taken him 
some time to understand that he should do so. So, whilst [Mr H] does then go on to make 
the new complaint pointsI think his original complaint about Plutus role in selecting 
Beaufort to manage his SIPP is time barred
Although I now think this complaint is time barred it might be helpful to point out that [it] 
may not have been particularly fruitful (if at all) in terms of obtaining compensation, even if 
we had been able to look at it. Assuming that Plutus arrived at a reasonable assessment of 
[Mr Hs] attitude to risk when deciding what instructions to provide to Beaufort to manage the 
funds in the SIPP, we wouldnt have been able to hold Plutus responsible if Beaufort 
subsequently mismanaged those funds.
And in the event that there had been a mismatch in terms of [Mr Hs] attitude to risk, we 
would still only have been able to consider the difference in performance between the 
benchmark for a portfolio in line with the attitude to risk Plutus actually gave Beaufort, and 
one that performed in line with what the attitude to risk should have been. So, there may or 
may not have been any loss.
For the avoidance of any doubt, should any complaints about the transfers-into the SIPP be 
upheld, it follows that the reference point for calculating compensation would need to be the 
SIPPs value based on the benchmark Beaufort should have been working to for the attitude 
to risk it was actually given by Plutus  not the SIPPs current value.
How many complaints?
The definition of complaint in the FCA Handbook is as follows:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on behalf 
of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, which:
(a) alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material 
distress or material inconvenience; and
(b) relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with whom 
that respondent has some connection in marketing or providing financial services or 
products, which comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
So, the key question was, if Mr Hs expression of dissatisfaction was about one or more 
provision(s) of, or failure(s) to provide, a financial service(s)?
Mr H only submitted one complaint to this Service. And Gate Capital originally argued that all 
matters arising should be taken as one case. However, we have an inquisitorial remit, and 
we do not require complainants to submit their cases to us as if they were pursuing more 
formal legal proceedings. We look beyond the way in which a complainant has expressed 
their complaint to establish the underlying substance of what theyve told us.
In this case the substance shows that the gap in time between the advice Mr H received in 
2015 to transfer his four pensions (the focus of this complaint) into a new SIPP and the recommendation Gate Capital gave him in 2016 to transfer his Vodafone pension (the 
subject of a separate case), and changes in his circumstances between these events, clearly 
constitute the separate provision of a financial services.
So, having reviewed these matters, I conclude the concerns Mr H has raised about Gate 
Capital, and which are within our jurisdiction to consider, were properly organised into two 
separate complaints.
The investigation of the merits of this complaint
An investigator went on to review the merits of Mr Hs case on 13 February 2020. As there 
are different considerations for DB and DC schemes, for example in terms of the regulations 
that applied, he considered what had happened with the transfer of his Thales DB pension, 
and then the transfer of his Fidelity, Prudential and Aegon pensions.
In relation to what had happened with his DB benefits, the Investigator noted the regulatory 
requirement for Gate Capital to start from the position that unless it could be clearly 
demonstrated otherwise, a transfer of these benefits would be unsuitable. He noted his DB 
scheme benefits formed the significant portion of his retirement pot. He found problems with 
the critical yield required; the attitude to risk assessment; Mr Hs experience of pensions and 
investments; and aspects of his circumstances, such as his proximity to retirement.
Taking these matters in the round the Investigator concluded Gate Capitals 
recommendation for Mr H to transfer his DB pension had been unsuitable. And that he 
wouldnt have gone ahead had he been advised correctly not to do so.
In relation to what had happened with his DC pension benefits, the Investigator noted that a 
significant element of the findings hed reached about the transfer of Mr Hs DB pension also 
applied. In addition, he considered that as his existing pensions were already invested 
broadly in line with his attitude to risk, switching would incur more costs, which given the 
time horizon of investments was likely to erode any performance gains.
Taking these matters in the round the Investigator concluded Gate Capitals 
recommendation for Mr H to transfer his DC pensions had been unsuitable. 
Gate Capital disagreed with the Investigators findings, providing a submission on 13 May 
2020. In concluding, its representative said:
In our and GCs view, any reasonable competent financial advisor would have 
recommended that [Mr H] transfer his existing pensions into a SIPP when considered in the 
context of his instructions to GC at the time, his ATR, his investment objectives, financial 
circumstances and long 10 year investment horizon.
GC adequately, clearly and competently provided to [Mr H], all of the relevant information 
which it could reasonably be expected to provide in relation to the advantages and 
disadvantages of making the pension transfers and [Mr H] made an informed [decision] to 
make the pension transfers.
The likelihood is that, even if different advice had been given to [Mr H], he would have still 
decided to transfer his pensions into a SIPP as his existing pensions did not meet his 
investment aims and objectives.
Notably, no complaint was made about the pension transfer advice at all, until [Mr H] 
learned that he had no prospect of receiving redress from Beaufort, the Ombudsman 
confirmed he had no valid claim against GC in respect of Beaufort mismanaging his SIPP 
outside of the agreed medium risk mandate, (such complaint being time barred in any event), and indeed until the FOS suggested to [Mr H] using its alleged inquisitorial 
jurisdiction, that he might have a complaint about GCs advice that to transfer into a SIPP 
product.
In this context, GC consider that [Mr Hs] complaint is opportunistic and hindsight driven. In 
reality, his complaint concerns events outside of the control of GC, i.e. Beaufort 
mismanaging [Mr Hs] portfolio, and the losses giving rise to this complaint arise from 
matters which were not caused by the alleged breach of duty or any error or omission on the 
part of GC, nor are those losses within the scope of the duty of care which GC owed to [Mr 
H].
The Investigator responded in full to Gate Capita on 23 July 2020l. He made clear the 
position on jurisdiction again, setting out what he did (could) consider and what he didnt 
(couldnt) look into. And he addressed the key points raised by it. He concluded that none of 
the arguments it had made caused him to depart from his initial conclusions, so he was 
upholding Mr Hs complaint and required it to put things right in the way hed provided for in 
his initial view.
On 15 September 2020 Gate Capital wrote to this Service in the following terms:
I refer to [Mr Hs] complaints against Gate Capital ("GC") and your telephone call with GC 
on 13 August. GC is mindful of the significant management time and costs that has been 
and will continue to be incurred defending these complaints. In light of this, GC has 
instructed me to establish whether [Mr H] would be prepared to settle his two complaints 
now, on a strictly without admission of liability basis. The settlement monies would be 
calculated on the basis of the redress methodology that you discussed with GC on 13 
August (the comparison of two benchmarks to calculate the losses arising from [Mr Hs] 5 
pensions)
In order for GC to calculate loss on this basis and in accordance with the redress 
methodology set out in your Adjudications, I would be grateful if you could ask [Mr H] to 
provide GC with details of his (i) tax position and (ii) details of the income and withdrawals 
made in respect of each of his pensions. GC will then present a loss calculation to [Mr H] for 
his review.
Settlement would also be conditional upon:
1. The parties agreeing that any settlement monies paid to [Mr H] is in full and final 
settlement of these complaints and all claims advanced by [Mr H] in correspondence which 
any of the parties have or may have against each other, relating to or otherwise connected 
with these claims, whether or not such claims were expressly advanced in correspondence 
with our GC;
2. Settlement monies being paid to [Mr H] on a no admission of liability basis.
We would be grateful if you could confirm with [Mr H] whether these conditions are in 
principle agreed. IF so, we will prepare a draft settlement letter recording the above terms for 
him to sign, assuming that the redress calculation can be finalised and agreed by all parties. 
If this matter is not capable of settlement, GC reserves the right to refer this matter to the 
Ombudsman.
There followed a series of communications between this Service, Mr H and Gate Capital. 
These variously covered matters of what could and couldnt be included in the redress being 
calculated. Requests from parties for information to help move matters forward. Feedback 
from this Service to make sure of proper adherence in the calculations to what the 
Investigator had determined. And various updates about the difficulty Gate Capital was having in securing the right expertise to undertake the complex DB pension transfer 
calculations.
Both parties have been trying to work towards settlement, based around the redress 
proposed by the Investigator in July. But to be fair, in particular to Mr H who has now been 
waiting for over a year for Gate Capital to finalise the calculations (and since February 2020 
when the Investigator first upheld his complaint), we need to move things onto a more formal 
footing to provide closure to all parties.
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month setting out how I thought matters should 
be brought to a conclusion. Mr H raised the issue of the time bar in relation to his original 
complaint about Gate capitals role in selecting BS to manage his SIPP. But he didnt bring 
any new evidence or arguments that make me think this needs to be reconsidered.
Gate Capital responded on 9 November informing this Service it was doing all it could to get 
the redress calculations finalised. On 15 November it said the calculations would be finalised 
by week commencing 22 November. And its since committed to a later date. 
While I have no reason to doubt the complexity of the calculations required nor Gate 
Capitals good faith in trying to finalise this matter, I will not now hold back my final decision 
as it requested. Theres been a pattern of delays in making a compensation payment to Mr 
H, and while it has experienced difficulties, these are matters for it to manage. Mr H requires 
the certainty provided by an enforceable final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wheres theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Given the most recent position of both parties has been to 
settle on the basis of the Investigators proposed redress from February 2020, and having 
reviewed all prior matters arising related to jurisdiction and the merits of this complaint, 
including the decisions and views already issued  the findings and conclusions of which I 
am in agreement with, for broadly the same reasons  my focus here is to direct Gate 
Capital Group Ltd to put things right.
Im also providing for additional financial compensation to Mr H in the event there are further 
significant delays in settling this matter.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Hs case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Gate Capital Group Ltd responsible for.Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Gate Capital Group Ltd should pay Mr H the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £150,000, I recommend that Gate Capital Group Ltd pays Mr H the balance. This 
recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Gate Capital Group Ltd doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr H can accept my decision and go to court 
to ask for the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether 
to accept this decision.
I should also remind both parties of the important conclusion reached by the Ombudsman 
who looked at jurisdiction, and with whom I agree, which is important in terms of framing this 
redress:
For the avoidance of any doubt, should any complaints about the transfers into the SIPP be 
upheld, it follows that the reference point for calculating compensation would need to be the 
SIPPs value based on the benchmark Beaufort should have been working to for the attitude 
to risk it was actually given by Plutus  not the SIPPs current value.).
Given how close the parties appear to have been in terms of settling according to the 
Investigators view, I see no reason to disturb matters at this stage.
The Thales DB pension transfer
I consider Mr H wouldve remained in his DB pension, but for Gate Capitals unsuitable 
advice. It should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review 
methodology, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: 
Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
Gate Capital may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr 
Hs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
The Fidelity, Prudential and Aegon transfers
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr H as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think he 
wouldve invested differently. It's not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but 
I'm satisfied that what I've set out below is fair and reasonable given his circumstances and 
objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr H fairly, Gate Capital Group Ltd needs to:
Compare the performance of Mr Hs investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. You should also 
pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, you should pay into Mr Hs pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. Your payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. You shouldn't pay the compensation into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
Gate Capital should also pay Mr H the cost of the MVA for the Prudential pension.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If it considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax from that interest, Gate Capital should 
tell Mr H how much its taken off. Gate Capital should also give Mr H a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I'll accept if Gate Capital total all those payments and deduct that figure 
at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I've chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk. The FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset 
classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It's a fair measure for someone who 
was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. Although its called income index, the 
mix and diversification provided within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a 
reasonable measure of comparison given Mr Hs circumstances and risk attitude.
Further information
Some examples of how calculations should be carried out are available on our website 
under 'Publications' / 'Online Technical Resource' / 'Investment' / 'Calculating compensation 
in investment complaints'
Provision for an award of interest
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 30 days of the date 
Gate Capital Group Ltd receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further 
interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 30 days, that 
it takes Gate Capital to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 30 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 30 day period in which interest wont apply.
Distress and inconvenience
In addition, Gate Capital Group Ltd should pay Mr H £700 for the unsuitable advice to 
transfer a significant portion of his retirement provision into a SIPP, which has caused him a 
substantial amount of upset and concern.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. I require Gate Capital Group 
Ltd to pay him the compensation Ive set out.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman