DRN-1545474
The complaint
Miss M complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited declined a critical 
illness cover claim and cancelled her policy. 
What happened
Miss M applied for a decreasing term assurance policy with critical illness cover, via a 
financial adviser, in November 2010. The policy commenced in February 2011 with an initial 
sum assured of about £60,000.
In May 2017 Miss M underwent gamma knife surgery following a meningioma (benign brain 
tumour) diagnosis. She subsequently made a critical illness cover claim on her policy but this 
was declined by Legal and General. They said Miss M hadnt provided accurate information 
about her health when applying for the policy. And had they known her actual health history 
 having had a meningioma surgically removed in March 2005 - then they wouldnt have 
offered critical illness cover to her. Because of this they cancelled the policy and returned the 
premiums shed paid.
Miss M complained to Legal and General as she was unhappy with their decision to decline 
her claim. She said she rang them before the policy was set up and she was told she didnt 
have to declare the meningioma as it had occurred more than five years earlier.
Legal and General didnt change their position. They said their application form makes it 
clear the importance of providing full and accurate information. And that they sent Miss M a 
copy of her application before the policy commenced to check the answers shed provided 
were correct. They explained they also highlighted to her that if she failed to provide 
information, or if she mis-stated any information, then this could result in a claim being 
declined and the policy being cancelled.
Legal and General said they had no record on Miss Ms application history to confirm she 
contacted them by telephone to discuss the meningioma surgery she had in 2005. And that 
while they found a record of a call from Miss M prior to the application form being received, 
they couldnt confirm the content as it was outside their retention period and so they no 
longer had the call recording. They reiterated however that had they known about it then 
they wouldnt have offered critical illness cover to her. As they considered Miss M ought to 
have known the information she gave was wrong, they considered this misrepresentation to 
be reckless. They explained that, under the relevant legislation, a claim could be refused 
and the policy cancelled in such circumstances.
Miss M remained unhappy and referred the matter to our service. One of our investigators 
looked in to it but he didnt think Legal and General had acted unfairly. He acknowledged 
Miss Ms point that she says she called Legal and General before applying for the policy and 
was told she didnt need to provide this information. But he explained it wasnt unreasonable 
for Legal and General to not retain records of calls more than six years old. And it wouldnt 
be reasonable for him to make assumptions of what might have been discussed.
Our investigator thought Legal and General had asked a clear and specific question in 
respect of Miss Ms health and that she ought to have answered differently. He was also satisfied Legal and General had demonstrated they wouldnt have offered critical illness 
cover had the correct information been provided. So he thought the remedy Legal and 
General had applied, refunding premiums and cancelling the policy, was reasonable.
Miss M disagreed with our investigator. So the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id like to firstly say that I dont underestimate the importance of this matter to Miss M or the 
impact the meningioma has had on her. But what Ive got to consider here is whether Legal 
and General has acted fairly and in line with the relevant legislation and industry guidance 
applicable at the time the policy sold - in this case, the ABI code of Practice on Non-
Disclosure and Treating Customer Fairly. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss 
M but having done so, I think they have and Ill explain why.
Did Miss B misrepresent her health when applying for the policy?
Miss M had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
bought the policy. And when she applied for the policy she was asked:
When answering all of the following questions, if you are unsure of the relevance of 
any medical condition you have had, please disclose it anyway. However, there is no 
need to state the same medical condition more than once when answering the 
questions.
Have you ever had any of the following:

Cancer, Hodgkins disease, lymphoma, brain or spinal tumour (including benign 
growths), or leukaemia?
Miss M answered No to this question. 
I think the question asked by Legal and General was clear. So Im satisfied there was a 
misrepresentation as Miss M gave an inaccurate answer as she suffered from a meningioma 
(benign tumour) in 2005.
Miss M however says Legal and General told her in a telephone call at the time she applied 
for the policy that she didnt have to declare it as it happened more than five years ago. 
Unfortunately, given the time that has since passed, there isnt a recording of this call still 
available. I understand Miss Ms frustration with this but its not unreasonable for a business 
to no longer keep information, including call recordings, after six years for data protection 
purposes. And as there isnt anything to show what might have been discussed, I cant fairly 
say Legal and General told her not to disclose the meningioma particularly when the 
question asked whether she had ever suffered from this (or the other conditions).
Ive also considered the warnings Legal and General provided Miss M about the importance 
of providing accurate information. This includes the Important Customer Information 
provided as part of the application form, which says:
You must tell Legal & General everything they ask for as all material facts are taken into 
account when assessing acceptance of the application and in calculating the premium. Please remember if you do not answer the following questions truthfully and accurately it 
will very likely mean that a claim will be declined and the policy or policies cancelled. If 
you are not sure if any information is relevant, please disclose it anyway. If you have 
provided the information in the past please disclose it again. 
This warning is also included as part of the declaration Miss M accepted when applying for 
the policy. The declaration also adds that if necessary, please return to the questions and 
amend your answer in the appropriate place.
Im therefore satisfied Legal and General made Miss M sufficiently aware of the importance 
for the information she provided to be correct. And the implication if it wasnt is that it could 
invalidate her policy and result in claims being rejected. I think it was reasonable for Miss M 
to have read these warnings and, as Legal and General recommended, to have disclosed 
accurate information or if she was unsure if it was relevant to have provided it anyway. I 
cant see that this happened. So I think Miss M was  on balance  careless when applying 
for this policy.
What would L&G have done differently?
Legal and General has confirmed that had the correct answer been provided to this question 
then they wouldve obtained further information through a targeted report. In turn, this 
wouldve given them the information about Miss Ms meningioma in 2005 and the treatment 
she received for it. And theyve evidenced that their underwriting criteria wouldve meant 
they wouldnt have offered Miss M critical illness cover as a result. 
Im satisfied there was a misrepresentation here and that Legal and General wouldve acted 
differently had the correct information been provided to them. But I consider this 
misrepresentation to be careless rather than reckless. And the ABI code of Practice says 
that a proportionate remedy should applied in these circumstances. 
In this case however the application wouldve been declined and therefore there wouldnt 
have been a policy to claim on. The only remedy therefore is for the premiums to be returned 
in this instance. As I understand Legal and General have already refunded Miss Ms 
premiums, I dont think they have to do anything further.
I realise Miss M feels whats happened isnt fair and that this has put her in a difficult 
position. But while I understand why shes unhappy with this situation, I dont think Legal and 
General has acted unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman