DRN-4503444
The complaint
Mr P complains about the advice he was given by Granard Insurance Brokers (Granard) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused 
him a financial loss.
What happened
Mr P was a deferred member of his former employers DB pension scheme when he met 
with Granard in late 1998. At that point Mr P was aged 33. He told Granard that he had 
recently started a new job and that his new employer provided the benefit of contributing 5% 
of his salary to a personal pension of his choice. 
At the time of the advice Mr P had 11.75 years pensionable service in his former employers 
DB scheme and was forecast to receive a pension at the schemes normal retirement date 
(NRD) at age 65 of £4,494.37. Mr P told Granard that his previous employer had recently 
been taken over by another company and restructured. He also said that its DB scheme had 
now been closed to new members. 
Granard carried out a transfer value analysis of Mr Ps DB scheme and provided him with a 
brief suitability report/reasons why letter in which it recommended that he transfer the cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the scheme (which was £37,122.39) to a personal 
pension with a provider I shall call C. This was on the basis that it imposed the lowest 
charges which, in Granards view, would mean better investment returns. 
The suitability report also analysed the future of the DB scheme and Granard stated that in 
its experience, when a company had been the subject of a hostile takeover bid one of the 
first things to happen was the closure of the company pension scheme to new members. 
Granard said this was typically followed by the new owner ceasing company contributions 
and the DB scheme falling into deficit. Granard said this would mean that the scheme would 
be unable to meet its liabilities which it thought would inevitably lead to the transfer of the 
entire scheme to an insurance company as a bulk buy-out. Ultimately, Granard thought this 
could mean a devaluation on any benefits not in payment which, in other words meant 
Mr Ps paid-up value would likely be reduced. 
As a result, Granard recommended Mr P transfer his DB scheme to C, with the added 
benefits of being able both to reduce his retirement age to 60 and to nominate a beneficiary 
to receive the entire value of his personal pension plan. 
Mr P accepted Granards recommendation, signed the necessary forms and the transfer 
took place in around May 1999. The total value of the DB scheme benefits transferred to C 
was £37,122.39.
In 2007 Mr P transferred his personal pension to another provider I shall call M.
In July 2021, Mr P, through his representative, complained to Granard. He said the advice 
he had received in 1998/1999 to transfer his DB scheme benefits had been unsuitable. Mr P 
said Granard had mis-sold him his personal pension which had meant hed lost all the 
guaranteed benefits his DB scheme provided. Mr P also said that at the time of the advice 
he was an inexperienced investor and didnt understand the implications or the risks 
associated with the transfer. He said that if Granard had made him aware of the full 
implications at that point then he would not have proceeded with the transfer. 
Granard responded to Mr Ps complaint in October 2021 but said it didnt think that it had 
done anything wrong. Granard said it had complied with the industry regulators rules as they 
were at the time it conducted its business with Mr P. It also said it had written to Mr P in 
1999 and 2000 under the Pensions Review to offer him a review of the transfer but he had 
never responded.
Unhappy with Granards response to his complaint, Mr P complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint for him but didnt think it was one that should be 
upheld. Our Investigator thought that the transfer meant Mr P could be financially better off. 
This was because our Investigator thought that the investment returns needed to match the 
benefits Mr P had given up in his DB scheme were achievable given Mr Ps attitude to risk 
(ATR) which he had told her was medium at the time of the advice. Our Investigator also 
noted that at the time of the advice Mr P had concerns about the financial stability of the DB 
scheme and this, in addition to the likelihood of the transfer being financially viable, meant 
she couldnt reasonably conclude that the transfer had been unsuitable. 
Mr P disagreed with our investigators findings. He said that the then regulators investment 
return projection rates could not be relied upon for future performance and, as a cautious 
investor, the lower rate at the time (of 6%) was below that calculated as being needed to 
exceed the DB scheme (namely 7.2%). He said that whilst it may have been recorded that 
he was prepared to accept some investment risk there had, in fact, been no need for him to 
do so as he had a DB scheme. Mr P said that Granard had recommended he move from a 
no risk situation to a risk-based situation, which was not in his best interests. Finally, Mr P 
said that there was no evidence that his former employer was in financial difficulty at the time 
of the advice  he said his comments about this matter at the time were based on opinion.
Granard also provided some comments in response and thanked our Investigator for her 
detailed reasoning for not upholding the complaint. 
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a jurisdiction decision in July 2023 in which I 
found that this was a complaint that could be considered by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. I then issued a provisional decision on the merits of this complaint in mid-
September 2023 in which I recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
Mr P replied to my provisional decision to say that he accepted my provisional findings 
upholding his complaint and preferred to have his compensation as a lump sum rather than 
have his personal pension augmented.
Granard replied to say it rejected my provisional findings upholding Mr Ps complaint. It 
made the following comments: -
That it could not arrange a redress calculation as the sole remaining partner from the 
time of the advice was now long retired. 
That I had inferred that Mr P was inexperienced and unqualified when he was in fact 
educated to a high standard, a homeowner with a mortgage and someone who had 
moved home several times. 
It had made observations about the new owner of Mr Ps former employer. What 
followed the company takeover wasnt inconceivable.Properties in the area where Mr P now lives sell for over £700,000. Mr P is not, 
therefore, someone who is unable to understand what he is undertaking.
Mr Ps salary more than doubled when he moved jobs to his new employer and he was 
offered 5% salary contributions to a pension provider of his choice. 
I should not accept that Mr P didnt receive correspondence from Granard in the Autumn 
of 1999 pertaining to the Pensions Review. Granard issued such correspondence under 
an enforcement notice issued by the then regulator.
Mr P sold his home in late November 1999 therefore he would have received the 
Pensions Review letter Granard sent him. It is inconceivable that Mr P would not have 
arranged to have his mail redirected to his new home by Royal Mail. Thus, he would 
have received the letter and, as six years have elapsed since Mr P was aware he had 
cause to complain, his complaint is time-barred. 
Mr P moved his pension from C to M in 2007 probably because he wanted better returns 
which demonstrates he cant be classed as someone with a low attitude to risk. 
That the DB scheme was moved to the new employers pension scheme in 1998/1999 at 
the same time as Mr Ps pension transfer to C was being processed. Granard was 
shocked to see the CETV statement not citing the name of Mr Ps former employer but 
the successor scheme provider. The pension fund was then transferred to another 
adviser again in 2001 and is now administered by another entity. This all demonstrates 
that Granards opinion from the time of the advice about what happened to DB pension 
schemes after a hostile takeover was correct. 
The now DB scheme administrator can carry out a calculation to ascertain the critical 
yield but a letter of authority from Mr P is required for it to do so. Granards sole 
remaining partner has no legal capacity to obtain the information needed to 
retrospectively carry out the critical yield calculation and has asked us to do so. 
To investigate this complaint correctly I should review the entire file and likewise reject 
the complaint as vexatious and time-wasting. 
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The advice was provided by Granard in late 1998 to early 1999. At this time it was regulated 
by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA). Granard was a previous member of the 
Financial Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association (FIMBRA). When 
the PIA took responsibility for FIMBRA businesses in 1994, they adopted the FIMBRA rules. 
And these adopted rules applied at the time of the advice in this case.
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of HMs actions here.
The FIMBRA rulebook set out the expectations on members when giving advice. The key 
rules applying from April 1998 were as follows:Rule 4.2.1 required an adviser to take reasonable steps to obtain relevant information 
concerning a clients personal and financial circumstances in order to provide investment 
services.
Rule 4.3.1 required FIMBRA members to take all reasonable steps to satisfy themselves 
that the client understood the risks involved in a transaction.
Rule 4.4.1 required members to establish, based on their knowledge of the client and 
any other relevant information which ought reasonably to be known to them, which 
types of investment that were the most suitable for them.
In July 1988 an amendment to the guidelines on best advice required members to ensure 
their recommendations were made on the basis of the client's best interest rather than the 
income generated for the member. In July 1994, in a further amendment to the guidelines, 
members were required to produce a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) and a reason why 
letter to explain the recommendation being give and why the advice is suitable. It was 
possible for a pension provider to carry out the TVAS on behalf of an IFA. 
The regulator, the PIA, also indicated in July 1994 that it expected firms to find that many 
customers would be better advised to remain in their occupational schemes, however, it 
should be presumed that it would be unsuitable for an active member to opt-out of their 
occupational DB scheme. 
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision, however, they have not persuaded 
me to change my mind. I remain of the opinion that Mr Ps complaint is one that should be 
upheld. Ive repeated my provisional findings here and also addressed the additional 
comments Granard made in response to my provisional decision.
My provisional findings
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the regulator was publishing 'discount rates' 
for use in loss assessments resulting from the industry-wide Pensions Review. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor at the time the advice was given in this case. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show that the critical yield was calculated by Granard at the 
time of the advice. There is mention that a TVAS was produced but no copy has been 
retained or provided. We have recently asked both Granard and C whether they have a copy 
of the TVAS containing the critical yield or whether it was possible for it to be retrospectively 
calculated. Unfortunately it seems it has not been possible to come up with either. However, 
at the point the advice was given the relevant discount rate was 7.2% per year for 31 years 
to retirement. 
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 12%, the middle 
projection rate 9% and the lower projection rate 6%. I've taken this into account, along with 
the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ps medium attitude to risk and also the 
term to retirement. 
Mr P was 33 at the time of the advice and his schemes NRD was age 65. There is mention 
in the suitability report of an added advantage of transferring being that Mr P could take his pension at age 60. But as there is no fact-find available, nor a copy of the TVAS, I cant say 
with any certainty whether Mr P intended to retire at age 60 or age 65. 
Without knowing what the critical yield was I cant reasonably conclude that by transferring, 
Mr P would achieve benefits that were better than those offered by the DB scheme he was 
giving up. Mr Ps personal pension needed to provide an annual return greater than the 
critical yield each year but, in the absence of knowing what the critical yield was, I cant know 
if that was achievable and therefore that the transfer was a financially viable one. 
Nor can I ignore that transferring a DB scheme is not suitable in most cases. And whilst the 
regulatory standards at the time were slightly less onerous than they subsequently became, 
it is for Granard to demonstrate that the transfer of Mr Ps pension was in his best interests. 
Without knowing what the critical yield was, and therefore the growth Mr Ps personal 
pension needed to achieve throughout its entire term in order just to match the benefits he 
was giving up, I cant reasonably conclude that Granard has been able to demonstrate that 
the transfer was a financially viable one that was in Mr Ps best interests to make. 
So despite Mr P having a medium attitude to risk and the discount rate of 7.2% being lower 
than the regulators then middle projection rate of 9%, I cant fairly conclude that these facts 
all meant Mr P was likely to exceed the benefits offered by his DB scheme unless I know 
what the annual investment return the pension needed to achieve in order to do so. There 
would be little point in any event, of Mr P giving up the guarantees available to him through 
his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
Nor do I think that the length of time Mr P had to go to retirement means his capacity for loss 
was significant. I cant see that Mr P had any savings at the time of the advice. He had a 
mortgage but I dont know how long it had left to run. But it cant be assumed that just 
because Mr P had 33 years to go until he retired that he could afford to gamble by 
transferring his DB scheme. The income he was forecast to receive at retirement from the 
scheme (if he remained) is, I think, one he didnt have the capacity to lose. 
With this in mind, I dont think the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme was a 
suitable one or in Mr Ps best interests. 
Other considerations
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
Granard has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer 
is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
From the available evidence it appears that Mr C had no specific objectives in making the 
transfer beyond wanting to do so because he didnt trust his former employer with the future 
of his pension. And whilst there was a passing mention in the reasons why letter to 
reducing Mr Ps retirement age to 60 and the added benefit of being able to nominate a 
beneficiary to receive the entire value of his personal pension fund in the event of his death, 
Im not persuaded that these were reasons for Mr P transferring his DB scheme as there is 
no other reference to them in the evidence Ive seen. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Granards reasons why letter sets out that Mr P had explained that his former employer had 
been taken over by another company in 1996 and that the DB scheme had been closed to 
new members as a result of a restructure. Mr P also said that there had been more 
redundancies than had initially been expected. I can see that Granard explained to Mr P that having left his employer prior to retirement he 
would receive what was known as a paid up benefit. It said that this had no declared 
guarantees and that, if it had, it would have recommended a transfer to a s32 buy-out plan. 
Granard also noted in the suitability report its discussion with Mr P about the future of his 
former employer and how takeovers could lead to the closure of DB schemes to new 
members, the cessation of employer contributions to the scheme and the scheme falling into 
deficit before being sold to an insurer. Granard said that this usually led to a devaluation of 
any benefits (such as Mr Ps) not already in payment. 
So it appears to me that one reason for recommending the transfer was so the paid-up value 
of Mr Ps pension wasnt devalued at any point in the future. Given the limited evidence 
available from the time of the sale, its not possible to say with any certainty that the DB 
scheme faced an unsettled future. Ive certainly seen no evidence that it did. All I can see is 
that at the time of the advice there was some concern from Mr P about the schemes future 
and some speculation by Granard as to where that could lead. Mr P has since told us that 
there was no evidence the DB scheme was in financial difficulty nor was the strength of the 
company and its future solvency in doubt. Mr P said that at the time of the advice he had just 
expressed an opinion.  
But based on what Ive seen, the funding of Mr Ps DB scheme was not in a position such 
that he should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. And if it 
was acting in Mr Ps best interests I think that Granard should have done more to allay any 
fears Mr P had in this respect or, at the very least, explored with him why he felt that way. 
But Ive seen no evidence that it did so. 
Given the lack of any evidence that Mr Ps concerns about the future stability of the DB 
scheme were founded in any fact, this isnt a good enough reason on its own to justify the 
transfer.
Earlier retirement
Nor have I seen any evidence that Granard explained to Mr P that if his retirement aim was 
to retire at age 60 (and it is not clear to me that it was an actual objective of Mr Ps) then this 
could be achieved by remaining in his DB scheme (albeit that his scheme pension would be 
subject to reduction). In any event, Mr P was only aged 33 at the time of the advice, and 
based on what Ive seen he didnt have concrete retirement plans. As Mr P had 27 years (or 
33 years) before he thought he would retire, I think it was too soon to make any kind of 
decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr P to give up his guaranteed benefits when he didnt know what his 
needs in retirement would be. If Mr P later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme he 
could have done so closer to retirement.
Death benefits
As Ive previously stated, there was reference in the reasons why letter to Mr P being able 
to nominate a beneficiary to receive the entire value of his personal pension fund in the 
event of his death, Im not persuaded that this was a reason for Mr P transferring his DB 
scheme. There certainly is no other reference to it in the evidence Ive seen. So it seems to 
me that this was more of a nice to have rather than an actual objective for Mr P.
That said, I do think that Granard failed to highlight the death benefits Mr P had under his 
existing DB scheme. Mr P was married so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme 
wouldve been useful to his wife (and indirectly his dependent children) if Mr P predeceased 
her. I dont think Granard made the value of this benefit clear enough to Mr P. It was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment performance  whereas 
any sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
In any event, Granard should not have encouraged Mr P to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr P genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
I think Granard shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr P. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Suitability of investments
As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt 
suitable for Mr P, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because Mr P should have been advised to remain in the DB 
scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the control of his pension sounded like an attractive feature to Mr P. But 
Granard wasnt there to just transact what Mr P might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr P needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr P was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr P was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
Mr Ps only objective was to remove control of his pension from his former employer but I 
dont think Granard interrogated this objective in any meaningful way  it didnt establish at 
the time why Mr P felt that way, nor did it challenge any preconceived ideas he had on the 
matter. I appreciate the PPF was yet to be established, and that there were some 
contemporary pension scandals happening but that didnt mean that Mr Ps DB scheme was 
similarly at risk. A robust conversation about this ought to have reassured Mr P that 
remaining in his DB scheme was in his best interests.
So, I think Granard shouldve advised Mr P to remain in his DB scheme.
Ive thought about whether Mr P would have gone ahead in any event. But Im not 
persuaded that Mr Ps concerns about his former employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests; I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight. So, if Granard had clearly explained this to Mr P I dont 
think he would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme against Granards advice.
In light of the above, I think Granard should compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
My provisional findings were predicated on Mr Ps ATR being classed as medium. This is 
how he described his ATR to our Investigator and it is on this basis the suitability of Granards advice has been considered. A well-educated homeowner can have a low, 
medium or high ATR.  Ive seen no evidence that Mr Ps level of education, and status as a 
homeowner, is in anyway linked to his stated ATR in relation to his pension. 
Whilst I note Granards comments firstly about the takeover of Mr Ps former employer, and 
secondly about its statement that it issued Pensions Review letters to Mr P, neither are new 
and both have been addressed by me, in full, in both my provisional decision and in my 
jurisdiction decision issued on 20 July 2023. So, I remain of the view that Mr Ps complaint 
has been brought in time and I have nothing further to add. 
I am unable to see the correlation between the value of property where Mr P lives, or the fact 
he doubled his salary, and his ability to understand what transferring his pension meant. It 
was Granards duty to take all reasonable steps to satisfy itself that Mr P understood the 
risks involved in the transaction. But I dont think the suitability report/reasons why letter 
provided Mr P with enough information to enable him to be able to make a fully formed 
decision about what he was doing. Without providing him with the critical yield for example, 
Mr P was unable to assess whether he would be financially better off or not by transferring 
his pension. 
And, as I stated provisionally, Mr Ps only objective was to remove control of his pension 
from his former employer. But I dont think Granard interrogated this objective in any 
meaningful way  it didnt establish at the time why Mr P felt that way, nor did it challenge 
any preconceived ideas he had on the matter. And whilst the PPF was yet to be established, 
and there were some contemporary pension scandals happening, that didnt mean that 
Mr Ps DB scheme was similarly at risk. A robust conversation about this ought to have 
reassured Mr P that remaining in his DB scheme was in his best interests. 
Granard said in the suitability report/reasons why letter that, in its experience, when a 
company is on the receiving end of a hostile bid[t]he first indication is that the pension 
scheme is closed to new members, then the company contributions cease, followed by the 
scheme being in deficit as its unable to meet its liabilities. The next move will invariably be 
to transfer the entire scheme to an insurance company as a bulk buy-out, this will lead to a 
devaluation of benefits NOT in payment, in other words your paid-up value is likely to 
reduce. I appreciate that Mr Ps DB scheme has moved providers twice and is now with a 
further administrator. However I am unable to agree with Granards comment that the fact it 
has demonstrates that the forecast contained in its suitability report about what happens to 
DB pension schemes after a hostile takeover (as quoted here) has been proved to be 
correct. Moving providers/administrators is not akin to an insurance backed bulk buy-out, a 
devaluation of benefits not in payment or a reduction in the paid-up value of benefits. 
 
In the course of my consideration of this complaint I have reviewed the file in its entirety. For 
the reasons I have given both provisionally and here in this, my final decision, I dont think 
that Granard has been able to demonstrate that the transfer of Mr Ps DB scheme to a 
personal pension plan was in his best interests. I think that Granard should have advised 
Mr P to remain in his DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Granard should compensate Mr P for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. I appreciate 
Granards concerns that it may not be straightforward to arrange a redress calculation. My 
understanding however is that it is not impossible and, as Granard is indefinitely liable for the 
advice it gave, it must comply with my decision.
Putting things rightA fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr P, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr P would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Granard must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr P has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ps acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Granard should:
calculate and offer Mr P redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr P before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment their 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr P receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr P accepts HMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr P for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, given 
the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ps end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr P as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Granard may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Ps likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Granard Insurance 
Brokers to pay Mr P the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also intend to 
recommend that Granard Insurance Brokers pays Mr P the balance.
If Mr P accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Granard Insurance 
Brokers.
My recommendation is not binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr P can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr P may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman