DRN-2279593
The complaint
Mr L complains on behalf of Miss C that AIB Group (UK) Plc failed to advise her relatives to 
obtain a power of attorney, failed to treat her as a vulnerable customer, and failed to protect 
her account from her profligate spending.
What happened
Miss C has a current account with AIB. Mr L is her brother in law, and he represents her in 
this complaint. He says (and it is not in dispute) that Miss C has a learning disability which 
prevents her from understanding the value of money and budgeting accordingly. As a result, 
there were a couple of incidents, when she was still under 18, when she spent a lot of 
money on online purchases, which were refunded by the bank at the time. This complaint is 
about a similar incident which occurred in 2019, after she had become an adult. The 
essence of the complaint is that the bank should have done more to prevent this most recent 
incident from happening.
A couple of years earlier (Mr L says in 2016; the evidence suggests it was 2017), following a 
similar incident, Miss C, her mother and Mr L all went to a meeting in the local branch of the 
bank to discuss her account. There is a significant dispute about what was discussed at that 
meeting, but both parties agree that the result was that a new savings account was opened 
for Miss C. At the same time, an arrangement was set up whereby once the balance of 
Miss Cs current account exceeded £400 (she was receiving that amount in benefits each 
month), £400 would be transferred to her savings account. Mr L says that this arrangement 
was proposed by the bank, and that the idea was that Miss C would not be tempted to spend 
the money in her savings account, so it would be safe.
Mr L says that this arrangement worked well for a couple of years, but that Miss C eventually 
began transferring money from her savings account back to her current account. In 2019, 
she made a large number of online purchases which added up to around £3,000. These 
purchases were all in-app gaming purchases, made because Miss C did not understand 
the consequences of what she was doing. When this came to light, Mr L and Miss Cs 
mother asked the bank for help. The bank declined to refund the purchases, but suggested 
that Miss Cs family obtain a power of attorney in order to manage her finances for her. It 
seems that the family did not follow this advice right away, but later changed their minds, 
and a power of attorney was eventually granted to and registered by Miss Cs mother and 
sister, jointly and severally, in late 2020, about a year and a half later.
Mr L complains that this advice should have been given to the family at the earlier meeting in 
2016 or 2017. If a power of attorney had been put in place then (instead of the solution 
which was adopted instead), then the purchases in 2019 would not and could not have 
happened. For that reason, he argues, the 2019 purchases should be refunded.
The bank does not agree that such advice should have been given earlier than 2019, 
because it denies that Miss Cs family ever told the bank about the extent of Miss Cs 
problem any earlier than that. The bank insists that if anyone had told it that Miss C was 
incapable of managing her affairs, then it would have frozen her account (except for allowing 
for moderate living expenses) until the family had obtained a power of attorney. It says it has 
no record of any such information being given to it during the meeting at which the savings 
account was set up, or on any other occasion before 2019.
Mr L also complains that AIBs anti-fraud systems should have flagged the online purchases 
as suspicious and blocked them, because they were different to Miss Cs usual pattern of 
spending. He says that Miss C was made anxious by the text messages which were sent to 
her phone to warn her that she did not have enough money in her account, and that she 
might incur charges. He says she should never have been given an overdraft facility.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said Miss Cs account had never been 
overdrawn and did not appear to have an overdraft facility. The text messages had been 
sent automatically. The online purchases had been authorised by Miss C and were not 
fraudulent, so would not necessarily be picked up by AIBs fraud systems. He said it was too 
difficult to determine, on the evidence available, exactly what was said in the 2017 meeting. 
There was no mention in the banks records of a discussion about getting a power of 
attorney.
Mr L asked for an ombudsmans decision. He insisted that he and Miss Cs mother had 
made it absolutely plain that Miss C should not be able to access her own account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to apologise to both parties for how long it has taken for this case to be assigned 
to an ombudsman. (There has been a large backlog of cases, which are in a queue in order 
of their age.)
I do not uphold this complaint. I regret that this will come as a disappointment to Miss C. 
I will explain my reasoning.
I asked AIB to provide its contact notes, in addition to the evidence it had supplied already. 
These were provided, and there is no evidence of any relevant contact in 2016. There is 
clear evidence that the savings account was opened in 2017, and that there was a branch 
visit at the time, and a relevant phone call four days earlier. That phone call, not previously 
noticed by anyone in this case, lends some support to Mr Ls recollection of events, and so 
I will summarise that evidence here, before I go on to explain why it has not changed my 
mind.
The phone call is described in about 200 words of text, and although it says that Miss Cs 
brother called, I think that is certainly a reference to Mr L, her brother in law. Miss C passed 
the banks security checks and authorised Mr L to speak for her. He told AIB that she has a 
learning disability and is a vulnerable adult, and asked that this information be added to her 
account for future reference. The call handler asked Mr L to call into a branch to discuss 
options with them around [the] account.
It is virtually certain that this call was the reason for the branch visit four days later. This 
clearly supports Mr Ls account of what happened at that meeting, and so on the balance of 
probabilities, I find that Mr L and Miss Cs mother did mention their concerns to the branch 
staff. I think the fact that the records of that meeting do not mention any such concerns being 
discussed is not because they were not discussed, but because the branch staff failed to 
record it.For these reasons, I think that AIB should have mentioned a power of attorney as being one 
possible solution (though not necessarily the only solution) to the problem that Miss Cs 
family raised at the meeting. I think that its failure to do that was an error. However, I am not 
persuaded that it would have made a difference if it had done so, because I doubt that 
Miss Cs family would have chosen that option if it had been suggested to them. I also doubt 
that the family described Miss C as being so incapable of having her own account that AIB 
should then have insisted on them getting a power of attorney and frozen the account until 
they did.
The reason I think that is because when AIB recommended a power of attorney in 2019, the 
family initially declined to get one, and insisted that Miss C could still continue to manage her 
own account. They later changed their mind, but that doesnt mean that they would have 
changed their mind in 2017. Their decision in 2019 or 2020 to get a power of attorney would 
certainly have been influenced by the 2019 purchases and the banks decision not to refund 
those purchases; that hadnt happened in 2017, when the purchases were refunded, and a 
smaller amount was involved. So on balance, I think its unlikely that they would have taken 
up this option in 2017, if it had been proposed to them.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C, or Mr L on 
her behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman