DRN-3175873
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined their travel 
insurance claim.
All reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a travel insurance policy alongside their current account. UKI has 
underwritten the policy. 
On 15 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO 
 formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but 
essential travel to Mr and Mrs Ss intended travel destination.
On 17 March 2020, Mr and Mrs S booked their trip. Their intended travel dates were 
from 18 August 2020 to 25 August 2020.
On 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to British 
Nationals.
On 23 March 2020, the UK went into a national lockdown.
From 4 July 2020 until 26 July 2020, the country Mr and Mrs S were intending to 
travel to was on the UK exempt list. This meant travel was permitted during this 
short time to that country.
On 28 July 2020, Mr and Mrs submitted their claim for cancelling their trip.
At the time Mr and Mrs Ss trip was due to go ahead (18 August 2020 to 25 August 
2020), the FCDO said it currently advises British Nationals against all but essential 
international travel.
Mr and Mrs S say they contacted UKI before they booked their trip and were advised theyd 
be covered if the trip was booked before 18 March 2020. So, Mr and Mrs S went ahead and 
booked the trip. However, as the FCDO advised against all but essential travel at the time of 
their intended departure date, Mr and Mrs S were unable to travel. They submitted a claim to 
UKI for the loss they incurred for their flight booking. UKI assessed the claim and declined it. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it. He didnt uphold their complaint. He said UKI didnt unfairly 
decline their claim as, at the point of booking their trip, the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel to the country Mr and Mrs S were looking to travel to. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and regulations
Industry rules and guidance set out by the regulator say an insurer should handle claims 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules and guidance into 
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Ive looked at what the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ss policy say as these form the 
basis of their travel insurance contract with UKI. 
Page 19 of their policy booklet sets out the cover that is available when a trip is cancelled 
and provides a list for reasons for cancellation:
8. FCO travel advice All travel: Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against 
All travel to your destination. The advice must have come into force after you 
opened your . current account or booked your trip whichever is later.
Looking at the above, cover is available if the FCDO advise against all but essential travel. 
But, looking at the second part, this advice must have come into force after Mr and Mrs S 
booked their trip. 
However, based on what happened, the FCDO advice came into force before Mr and Mrs S 
booked their trip. On 15 March 2020, there was advice against all but essential travel to the 
country they were intending to travel to. I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ss comments that the 
island they were intending to travel to wasnt included on the list on 15 March 2020 (they say 
the advice applied only to the mainland). However, information from the FCDO website 
confirms the island was also included on that list. So, the advice on 15 March 2020 did apply 
to Mr and Mrs and destination they were planning to go to.
On 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all but essential travel worldwide. So, while I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs S booked their trip on 17 March 2020 and they say they did this 
because UKI informed them they would have cancellation cover, the issue is that they 
booked their trip on 17 March 2020. This means the cancellation cover would only apply if 
the FCDO advice came into force after they booked their trip. In the circumstances here, the 
FCDO advice came into force before Mr and Mrs S booked their trip. Therefore, they have 
no cover under their travel insurance policy. As such, Im not persuaded that UKI declined 
the claim unfairly.
Additionally, on page 18 of the policy booklet, theres a list of specific exclusions under the 
policy:
2. Anticipated events
Any claim for costs you have incurred as a result of an anticipated event.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs S booked their trip on 17 March 2020. By this time, there 
was already advice in place from the FCDO against all but essential travel to their intended 
destination. As such their claim would be excluded under their policy. So, by 15 March 2020, 
advice from the FCDO had already come into force and therefore, cover for cancellation for 
their trip would be excluded as the event (the Covid-19 pandemic) was one that was 
anticipated. And, at the very least, by 17 March 2020, the event was anticipated. So, 
whichever way this is considered, Im not persuaded that UKI unfairly declined Mr and Mrs 
Ss claim.
Customer serviceMr and Mrs S have said they called UKI before they booked their trip to ask whether they 
would be covered in the event of a cancellation. I understand UKI hasnt been able to 
provide a recording of the call and I cannot therefore comment on it. UKI has accepted the 
advisor said during the call that Mr and Mrs S would have cover. It said the call was 
misleading and wasnt acceptable. In recognition of this, it offered Mr and Mrs S £100 
compensation. While I appreciate this isnt the expected level of service, I think the 
compensation offered is fair and reasonable. I realise Mr and Mrs S think the claim should 
be paid due to the advice they were given by UKI. But although the service provided could 
have been better, that doesnt mean the claim should be paid as the basis of this goes back 
to the travel policy terms and conditions Mr and Mrs S have with UKI. 
Mr and Mrs S have also said before they booked their trip, they looked at UKIs website 
which confirmed any trips booked before 18 March 2020 would be covered. UKI has 
confirmed a notice was added because of the lockdown and to provide information to its 
customers to save them calling in. Its also said the notice didnt state it would cover all 
claims automatically. While I havent seen the notice, I do understand Mr and Mrs S 
frustration on this. However, its important to note that while an insurer might say claims will 
be considered, not all of those will necessarily be successful as each claim is different and 
unique with its own set of circumstances. 
I appreciate the information given to Mr and Mrs S was misleading and not acceptable. But I 
think UKI has overall offered a fair compensation in recognition of this poor service.
Conclusion
I understand this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs S. But overall, in the circumstances of 
this complaint, Im not persuaded UKI declined Mr and Mrs Ss claim unfairly. As such, I 
dont think UKI needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against U K 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman