DRN-4041662
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that they were mis-sold a holiday club membership and the loan 
used to pay for it. The loan was provided by GE Money but sold in 2016 to Elderbridge 
Limited. Mr and Mrs B are represented by a firm of solicitors, which Ill call N.
What happened
In 2006 Mr and Mrs M bought a trial membership of Club La Costa Vacation Club, a holiday 
club and timeshare business. Members bought points, which could be exchanged for holiday 
accommodation and other services at a large number of resorts. In February 2007 Mr and 
Mrs M say they were on holiday and were encouraged to upgrade their membership. They 
traded in their existing points holding and bought a further 1,000 points with the help of a 
loan from GE Money.
The sale contract was signed on 22 February 2007 and the loan agreement on 27 February 
2007. The loan terms said that Mr and Mrs M had until 16 March 2007 to cancel the loan. 
They did not do so, and the funds were released on 19 March 2007. Mr and Mrs M were to 
start making repayments after three months and the loan was to run for 182 months in total.
In 2016 Elderbridge bought some of GE Moneys loan book, including Mr and Mrs Ms loan.
In May 2020 N contacted GE Money and Elderbridge on behalf of Mr and Mrs M. It said that 
they had claims under sections 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Those claims 
arose because Mr and Mrs M had been pressured into buying the upgraded membership in 
February 2007, both by the manner of the sale and by misleading and incorrect statements 
made at the time. N said that its letter was not a complaint under DISP but was a letter of 
claim sent in accordance with the Civil Procedure Rules.
Elderbridge said in its response that it was not responsible for the actions of Club La Costa,  
and it directed Mr and Mrs M to that company if they had concerns.
In early 2022 N referred the matter to this service on behalf of Mr and Mrs M. One of our 
investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld, primarily because of the time that had passed since the sale of the holiday club 
upgrade. N did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.
I reviewed what had happened and issued a provisional decision. 
Because Elderbridge had said that it was not responsible for the actions of Club La Costa, I 
explained in my provisional decision why that was not necessarily the case. I said:
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim;
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier; and
that the price attached to any single item in relation to the claim is not more than 
£30,000.
The loan agreement indicates that Club La Costa was the intermediary in this case. The 
effect of section 56 is that GE Money was responsible for what it told Mr and Mrs M about 
the club membership and about the loan. Since Elderbridge bought the rights and liabilities 
under the loan, it follows that it is responsible for those statements.
Elderbridge says that section 75(1) does not apply here because the loan funds were sent to 
Leading Resorts Ltd, not to Club La Costa. That is, they were not sent to the party against 
which Mr and Mrs M say they have a claim.
I note however that the seller of the points named in the sale contract was Leading 
Resorts. It may be that a different company or companies are responsible for providing the 
individual services associated with the club membership, but any claim Mr and Mrs M might 
have for breach of contract or misrepresentation would be against Leading Resorts, the 
party with which they contracted.
Elderbridge also says that section 75(1) does not apply because the loan is for more than 
£30,000. It is true that the total sum payable under the loan agreement will be more than 
£30,000 if it runs for its full term. But the key figure is not the total payable or even the loan 
amount; it is the price attached to a single item. In this case, that meant the price attached to 
the upgraded membership  which was clearly within the relevant financial parameters.
I must therefore consider the claims against Club La Costa and/or Leading Resorts. N says 
that its clients were misled about the holiday club membership.
I then went on to consider Mr and Mrs Ms arguments that:
they had a claim in misrepresentation against the seller of the club membership and 
therefore had a like claim against Elderbridge; and
the loan agreement created an unfair relationship between them and Elderbridge. 
In respect of those matters, I said:
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
There is little detail in this case about what was said to Mr and Mrs M about the membership 
at the time of the sale. In addition, they have provided no supporting evidence  such as 
information about accommodation they tried to book or the standard of accommodation 
when they did  showing that what they were told was untrue.
Be that as it may, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs M into the 
contracts for the purchase of holiday club membership were made no later than February 2007, so that is when any cause of action accrued. They did not however raise any claim 
under section 75 until March 2020, some 13 years later. I think it very likely therefore that a 
court would conclude that any claim which Mr and Mrs M might now make against the seller 
would be outside the relevant time limit in the Limitation Act.
It is not for me to decide whether any particular claim is now out of time under the Limitation 
Act. Rather, I must decide whether it would be fair to hold Elderbridge liable for the actions of 
the seller in each case. Given the very real possibility that a court would say that the claims 
are time-barred, I do not believe it would be.
For clarity, I should say that I do not believe that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about this is out 
of time under our own rules. That is because their complaint about Elderbridge is that it has 
declined their section 75 claim. That happened relatively recently.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. In this case, P says that Mr and Mrs B seek restitution of 
sums paid under the loan agreement. Only a court can make an order under section 140B, 
but it is something I must take into account in deciding whats fair and reasonable.
I note that the loan pre-dates the introduction of section 140A and 140B. They came into 
force on 6 April 2007. They do however allow a court to make orders in respect of existing 
loans, and they replace similar provisions in respect of extortionate credit bargains, 
covered by section 137 to 140 (now repealed).
Be that as it may, I am not persuaded that a court is likely to make an order under section 
140B in this case. Any alleged unfairness arises from what Mr and Mrs B were told at the 
time of the sale, but that is largely unsupported by persuasive evidence. And even if Mr and 
Mrs M did have a valid claim for misrepresentation, it doesnt follow that the loan agreement 
itself would either be an extortionate credit bargain or would create an unfair relationship.
N argued as well that Club La Costa and/or Leading Resorts were in breach of some pieces 
of timeshare and consumer protection legislation. I considered that issue as well but 
concluded that I should not uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
Neither party provided any additional evidence or arguments in response to my provisional 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither Elderbridge nor Mr and Mrs M have provided any further evidence or 
arguments, I do not believe there is any reason for me to reach a different conclusion from 
that set out in my provisional decision. 
I shall however expand a little on Ns arguments about breaches of legislation. Some of that 
legislation (such as the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Practices Regulations 
2008) was not in force at the time of the sale. In respect of other legislation  in particular, 
the Timeshare Act 1992 and The Timeshare Regulations 1997  I do not believe that Mr and Mrs M have sufficiently shown that there were any breaches or, if there were, what impact 
they might have had. 
Further, even if there were breaches of relevant legislation, it does not necessarily follow that 
such breaches would give rise to a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation. And if 
they did (section 10A of the Timeshare Act, for example, says that a contravention of the 
obligation to provide certain information is actionable by the person who enters into the 
timeshare agreement), it seems likely to me that in this case any such action would be out of 
time under the Limitation Act. 
It is not for me to say whether there were any breaches of consumer protection or timeshare 
legislation here. Not is it for me to decide whether Mr and Mrs M have valid claims against 
the timeshare businesses. They are however matters I must take into account in deciding 
what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome of their complaint. Having done that, I 
do not believe that it would be fair to uphold it.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Elderbridge Limited to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman