DRN-3409390
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain AXA Insurance UK Plc has unfairly declined a claim they made for 
storm damage on their commercial buildings insurance policy. 
Whilst this policy is in joint names, Mr W has been the main correspondent. So for ease Ive 
only referred to him in this decision.
What happened
Mr W contacted AXA in October 2021 to report an issue with his roof. He said bad storms in 
July had caused damage, and further bad weather since meant the property was now 
uninhabitable. He explained to AXA that he has trouble remembering dates, so was initially 
unsure when the storms happened.
A couple of months later, Mr W complained about the lack of progress on the claim. AXA 
had been out to assess the property and it ultimately declined the claim. It didnt think the 
damage had been caused by a storm and said it was most likely wear and tear.
Unhappy with this Mr W complained, but AXA didnt agree to change its position so Mr W 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought AXA had acted fairly in declining the claim. Mr W didnt agree, he 
said:
AXA didnt get onto the pitched roof to see its condition.
The roof was only twenty years old and had had recent repairs.
From the photos, he thought AXA had got his roof confused with another.
As Mr W didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has provided this service with several photographs, videos and other information in 
support of his claim. Id like to reassure him I have seen and considered everything hes 
sent, but my decision will only focus on the key reasons for the outcome Ive reached.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three questions:
has it been shown, on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage consistent with storm damage?
were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer to all these questions is yes then the claim will succeed. But, if the answer to 
any of the above questions is no  the claim wont succeed under this section of the policy.
Storm conditions arent defined in Mr Ws policy. Whilst he initially couldnt recall the dates of 
the storms, he later did provide two dates: 12 and 17 July 2021. I can see from the weather 
reports that there was significant rainfall on 12 July, that would be classed as a storm. But 
over the dates provided by Mr W I dont think the wind speeds themselves were sufficiently 
strong to also be considered a storm.
In any event, for Mr Ws claim to succeed, the other two questions need to be considered. 
By the time AXA attended in October, it didnt think the damage was consistent with storm 
damage, and it had concerns about the general state of the roof. So it didnt think the storm 
was the main cause of the damage. Having reviewed everything, I dont think AXA acted 
unreasonably in reaching this position.
Its surveyor was of the opinion that the section of flat roof had had patch repairs carried out, 
and the rainfall highlighted an existing problem with the roof. Given the lack of storm force 
winds over the dates Mr W provided, I dont think AXA has been unreasonable in saying the 
damage isnt consistent with a storm. A roof is designed to withstand heavy rainfall, and I 
dont think its unreasonable for AXA to say the rainfall is unlikely to have caused the 
damage to the roof. 
Mr W provided a quote from a builder. AXA thought many of the items listed were 
maintenance issues and suggested that damage had happened gradually over time. For 
example, the quote said a large number of new roof tiles were needed, as well as new 
insulation and battens. And in total the quote was for around £25,000. Having reviewed that, 
alongside the photographs and comments of the loss adjuster, I think AXA reached a 
reasonable decision to decline the claim for storm damage.
I note Mr W has said repairs were carried out to the roof in early 2021, but this doesnt 
persuade me that the damage to the roof reported in October 2021 was caused by storm 
damage. 
Mr W has said delays in the claim meant the condition of the roof got worse, meaning the 
repair needed was more extensive. I think it did take AXA longer than Id expect to decline 
the claim. AXA first attended the property in October 2021 but it seems it didnt reach a 
decision until early 2022. Whilst it was reviewing the claim internally, I think this could have 
been done quicker.
However, I think AXA was clear from the start that it would take some time to decide if the 
claim would be covered. And from the notes it seems Mr W was told that hed need to carry 
out a temporary repair himself if needed, whilst AXA reviewed the claim. And ultimately, I 
think its decision to decline the claim was fair. So I dont think Mr W lost out as a result of 
AXAs delays. 
Mr W has raised concerns that AXA didnt get onto the pitched roof of the property itself to 
look at it, hes concerned it has confused his roof with another. But I think from all of the 
evidence Ive seen; AXA has assessed the correct property and Im satisfied its acted 
reasonably in declining the claim. So Im not going to ask AXA to do anything differently. My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask AXA Insurance UK Plc to do anything differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman