DRN-3880251
The complaint
Mr C, who represents the estate of the late Mrs C, says he experienced unreasonable 
delays when trying to access investment bonds held by the late Mrs C.
What happened
The facts of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will only provide a summary of 
the key points. 
The late Mrs C held investments with NS&I. In November 2020 Mr C contacted NS&I to 
explain the change in the late Mrs Cs health and the need for him to access her investments 
to help fund her long-term care. 
NS&I sent Mr C details of how to access NS&I accounts online and temporary passwords 
were also issued. These expired in January 2021, and Mr C had not reset them by this date. 
Mr C says he had issues gaining online access, so he tried to contact NS&I numerous times 
over the phone.
In late February 2021 Mr C sent NS&I a copy of his enduring power of attorney (EPOA). In 
early March 2021 Mr C was informed the EPOA needed to be certified before it could 
become effective, but as Mr C had confirmed he was in the process of doing this, NS&I 
agreed to act on the current EPOA as it was. 
Mr C completed the necessary paperwork to encash the bonds and these were sent to NS&I 
in mid-April. However, due to the passing of Mrs C, Mr C also submitted a death claim 
notification. NS&I explained that as Mrs C had passed away, Mr C would need to obtain a 
grant of probate in order for the bonds to be encashed. 
In August 2021 Mr C informed NS&I that he had received the grant of probate, and after 
consideration it agreed to release the funds to the nominated account. 
Throughout Mr Cs contact with NS&I he raised concerns about its requirements and the 
delays these caused. NS&I reviewed Mr Cs concerns and agreed there were some things 
that couldve gone better. It accepted there was some delay in its communication with Mr C 
when he tried to access the accounts online in April as a block had been placed on it. NS&I 
apologised for this and offered the estate £50 in recognition of the inconvenience caused. 
NS&I explained that although the grant was needed, it had decided to release funds without 
sight of it. So, it agreed as a gesture of goodwill, to cover the £219.50 cost incurred in 
obtaining the probate. NS&I didnt think it needed to offer any further compensation as it had 
acted in line with its internal requirements and was ultimately protecting the late Mrs Cs 
interests. 
Dissatisfied with NS&Is response to his concerns Mr C referred the complaint to our service. 
Mr Cs complaint was split into two parts - Mr Cs EPOA and probate requirement complaint 
issues were looked at by an Investigator under one complaint. And within this complaint Mr 
Cs concerns around the delays he experienced in accessing the online accounts were also 
considered. The Investigator found on both complaints that NS&I had acted reasonably in 
the circumstances and the steps it had taken to acknowledge any shortcomings were 
adequate.
Mr C remained unhappy with the review of his complaint points and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I am sorry to hear of the serious health issues Mr C is experiencing. I understand the 
issues with NS&I have been a source of worry and frustration, at what has already been a 
challenging time. 
For the sake of completeness and as the issues are all interlinked, I have also looked at the 
complaint points raised in Mr Cs previous complaint with our service within this decision. 
Theres a great deal of correspondence on both complaints and Mr C has provided detailed 
submissions, all of which I have considered. In my decision I will focus on issues which are - 
in my opinion - relevant to reaching a fair outcome to Mr Cs key concerns. This isnt meant 
as a discourtesy to Mr C. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
I can see from November 2020 onwards Mr C was keen to have access to the late Mrs Cs 
investments account due to her deteriorating health. Mr C contacted NS&I and was issued 
with online login details. At this stage Mr C was not recorded by NS&I as having the relevant 
authority to access the late Mrs Cs account. NS&I has confirmed that as Mr C had his own 
individual account with NS&I the online access details he was being provided with would 
only allow him to view accounts in his name. Mr C would not have been able to view or carry 
out activity on the late Mrs Cs account online. This would only be possible once NS&I was 
satisfied Mr C had the relevant authority to deal with the late Mrs Cs investments.
NS&Is records show that temporary passwords were sent to Mr C to enable him to access 
his NS&I account online. However, it doesnt appear that Mr C went online to change the 
passwords within the necessary timeframe and they subsequently expired in January 2021. I 
cant see that Mr C tried to gain access online again after this point  Mr C says he had 
experienced issues accessing the account online and contacted NS&I about this. 
Mr C has referred to numerous phone calls which he says were made to NS&I in November, 
December 2020 and January 2021. Mr C says that during these calls he explained the 
problems he was having accessing the accounts online. Mr C says he also highlighted the 
late Mrs Cs health situation and the need for him to be able to encash her investments to 
assist in providing the right level of care for her. Mr C says he received poor service when he 
tried to resolve these issues. 
Our service has asked NS&I to provide these calls so the service issues Mr C complains 
about can be considered. However, NS&I has been unable to locate the calls Mr C refers to 
 and its provided evidence of its search. Im satisfied that its taken the necessary steps to 
try and address Mr Cs concerns. And whilst I appreciate Mr Cs strength of feeling about 
these calls, without further evidence I cant say NS&I treated Mr C unfairly. 
The crux of Mr Cs complaint appears to be NS&Is alleged failure to allow Mr C access to 
the late Mrs Cs online accounts sooner. But given the issues surround the EPOA the online 
access would only have been of limited use  it was only once Mr C had the necessary 
authority that he wouldve been able to encash the investments held by the late Mrs C. So I 
dont think that any possible delays have affected Mr Cs ability to access the accounts. I have also considered whether NS&Is requirements around the EPOA were reasonable and 
if Mr C experienced undue delays. Although Ive considered Mr Cs comments, I think NS&Is 
requirements around the EPOA were reasonable. The process it required Mr C to follow is 
standard practice, and I dont think its requirement for the EPOA to be properly registered 
was unfair. NS&I had a duty to ensure the late Mrs Cs bonds were handled appropriately, by 
the right individual and the EPOA requirements would enable it to be satisfied it was acting 
legally. 
In terms of delays, I can see Mr C sent NS&I a copy of the EPOA in early February 2021. It 
took NS&I almost two weeks to respond to this and explain that it needed the original copy 
and it needed to be registered. I understand Mr C wanted the process to be swift, but at this 
time business like NS&I were dealing with the restrictions related to the Covid pandemic. 
This resulted in longer timeframes in getting back to customers. So I dont think NS&I 
caused excessive delay here. 
However, NS&I has accepted that it did provide poor service in early March 2021 when it 
didnt inform Mr C that it would accept the certified EPOA he had provided without official 
confirmation it had been registered. It also didnt remove the security block on the account to 
allow Mr C access. NS&I paid Mr C £50 in recognition of this shortcoming.  Mr C doesnt 
think this amount is enough. Reaching an award for distress and inconvenience is seldom 
straightforward. The issues involved are subjective by their very nature and the impact on 
the consumer can be difficult to determine. I understand Mr C had been through a lengthy 
process with NS&I and this delay mustve been frustrating. But I also think the steps NS&I 
have taken here are reasonable and in keeping with our approach to awards for distress and 
inconvenience. So, I wouldnt expect NS&I to do anymore in relation to this issue.
Ive also considered the grant of probate aspect of Mr Cs concerns. I fully acknowledge that 
Mr C had already spent time and effort obtaining registration for the EPOA he held. 
Unfortunately, as soon as the late Mrs C passed away, the EPOA was no longer effective. 
NS&I requirements changed, and Mr C needed the grant of probate to act on behalf of the 
late Mrs Cs estate. I understand Mr C feels NS&Is requirements were unnecessary as it 
had already accepted the EPOA he held. However, I dont think NS&I couldve presumed Mr 
C would be the executor of the estate without going through the necessary process. Given 
the sums involved I think it was fair for NS&I to ensure the late Mrs Cs bonds were handled 
by the correct individual. This due diligence is standard practice amongst businesses like 
NS&I and I wouldnt expect it to act simply on Mr Cs instructions without carrying out 
checks. 
Mr C took steps to obtain the grant of probate, but NS&I decided that due to Mr Cs 
comments and the process he had already been through that it would make an exception 
and allow the funds to be released to him prior to it being granted. Mr C says this shows 
there was never a need for the grant of probate, but I am not persuaded it does. This was a 
decision NS&I took based on the individual circumstances of Mr Cs situation, and this isnt 
its standard process. NS&I took the decision to expediate matters for Mr C, and it also 
covered the costs Mr C incurred in obtaining a grant of probate. I am satisfied NS&I has 
taken pragmatic steps here to assist Mr C and it recognised the long processes he has had 
to go through. 
I acknowledge Mr Cs argument that accessing the funds held by the late Mrs C sooner 
wouldve helped significantly in the provision of her care. But as explained above, I think 
NS&Is acted reasonably and clearly set out its requirements at every stage. Mr C says the 
compensation offered doesnt reflect the distress and inconvenience he has experienced.  
Under the rules governing our service, Mr C (as the executor of Mrs Cs estate) isnt entitled 
to any compensation for the inconvenience he experienced in the course of carrying out his duties as executor. We can only tell a business to pay compensation for trouble and upset 
experienced by its customer, not by a third party.
Having considered Mr Cs submissions I can see this was an extremely difficult time for the 
late Mrs C and the family. I know this will not be the outcome Mr C was hoping for and he 
will be disappointed with the decision Ive reached. But I hope my decision provides some 
clarity around why I wont be asking NS&I to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman