DRN-2475108
The complaint
Mr H says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to him irresponsibly and overcharged him.
What happened
Mr H took out two instalment loans from ELL. 
loantaken 
out value, £term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, 
£total repayment, 
£
1 Dec-14 1585 24 127.75 3066
2 Jan-16 2532.64 36 193.52 6966.72
Mr H received £2000 of loan 2 and the remainder settled the balance on loan 1. I 
understand loan 2 remains outstanding. 
Mr H initially complained to this service that ELL had overcharged him on loan 2 after 
he missed payments. He says he understood the term of the loan would be extended 
by six months, but ELL then extended it by a further six months at a cost of £1,200. 
During our investigation Mr H agreed he wanted the affordability of the loans to also be 
considered. After this was confirmed to ELL, it rejected both aspects of the complaint. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint saying ELL had not made fair lending decisions 
based on the information it had gathered. As she was therefore recommending only the 
capital borrowed should be repaid, she didnt comment further on the impact of the late 
payments on the term and cost of loan 2. 
ELL disagreed saying it completed proportionate checks for both loans, and they showed   
Mr H had enough disposable income to make the repayments. And it said that on each 
occasion Mr H deferred a payment on loan 2 he was advised of the balloon payments and 
extended term of the loan, so it had made no error.
As agreement was not reached the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr H required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability
check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr H. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mr H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr H. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Hs
loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did ELL make fair lending decisions?
- did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr H before it approved the loans. It asked 
for details of his income, how many dependents he had, copies of recent payslips and bank
statements. It estimated his living costs using a percentage of his income. It says it also 
checked Mr Hs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit 
history. And finally it asked about the purpose of the loans. This was car repairs and 
seasonal expenditure for loan 1 and to settle payday loans and fund a holiday for loan 2.
From these checks combined ELL concluded Mr H had enough monthly disposable income 
to afford to repay the loans at the time of each application.
Im not wholly persuaded the checks were proportionate given the term of the loans and the 
fact Mr Hs actual living costs were not verified. But I wont comment further on this
as even based on the information it gathered, I dont think ELL made fair lending decisions.
As the investigator said, I agree that the checks showed Mr H was having problems 
managing his money. At the time of both loan applications ELL was aware that Mr H already 
had credit commitments in excess of half his net income. And on each occasion he had at 
least four payday loans outstanding  that it doesnt seem he was planning to pay off with 
these loans based on the Go-Live Audit documentation the lender has provided. In addition, the hand-written notes on the bank statements ELL reviewed when he applied 
for loan 1 show the lender was aware Mr H had recently needed to catch up on mortgage 
arrears. And when he applied for loan 2 ELL was aware that by then Mr H had a County 
Court Judgement lodged against him, further indicating he was struggling to manage his 
money. So I think ELL, as a responsible lender, ought to have realised there was a high risk 
Mr H would not be able to repay either loan sustainably.
I have considered ELLs arguments that its affordability checks showed that Mr H had 
enough disposable income to make the repayments but (putting aside the point that it didnt 
carry out checks into his actual living costs) as it knows it was obliged to consider more than 
the pounds and pence affordability. CONC 5.3.1(G) stated: 
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required , a firm
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
I think ELL ought to have realised that giving Mr H these loans put him at high risk of 
experiencing financial difficulty. There were signs that he was already finding it challenging 
to manage his financial position and that he was, or was close to, becoming reliant on 
payday lending and other credit to meet his ongoing financial commitments 
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give Mr H both loans. As this is my conclusion I do not 
need to consider if ELL made an error in the interest added to loan 2 after the deferred 
payments: it will need to remove all interest Mr H owes/refund all interest paid. I havent 
found that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr H in some other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr H to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he 
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt 
have been provided to him.
If ELL has sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following steps. If ELL is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
It should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of having been
given loans 1 and 2. The repayments Mr H made should be deducted from this
amount.
If this results in Mr H having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement)*.
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then ELL should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr H.Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Hs credit file regarding the
loans, on loan 2 once any outstanding capital has been repaid, if any remains. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr H a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Hs complaint and Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) 
must now put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman