DRN-3012931
The complaint
Mr Z says that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) should have allowed him to 
voluntarily terminate his finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr Z, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Z acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the credit agreement allowed Moneybarn to terminate it if Mr Z didnt make 
payments towards his agreement on time. 
In January 2020 when a default letter was sent Mr Z was over £3,000 in arrears. 
Wed expect a business to be positive and sympathetic towards a consumer who was in 
financial difficulties, as Mr Z clearly was, and I think Moneybarn were. They tried to help Mr Z 
by arranging repayment plans, but Mr Z didnt keep to those plans. 
Moneybarn also explained Mr Zs options to him on several occasions throughout 2018,2019 
and 2020. They explained that one of those options was to voluntarily terminate his 
agreement with them. 
By the time the default notice was sent in January 2020, Mr Z had paid more than half of the 
amount due on the agreement and he would not therefore have had to pay anymore if hed 
voluntarily terminated, although he would have been expected to return the car. But the 
options letters sent to Mr Z explained that if he didnt engage with the business they would 
send a default notice, terminate his agreement, and would seek to collect the car and the 
money owed. In those circumstances it is clear from the letters that voluntary termination 
would no longer be an option.
Moneybarn sent the notice of default to Mr Z on 16 January 2020. That notice explained that 
Mr Z had until 5 February 2020 to make payment of the arrears and if payment wasnt made 
they would terminate the finance agreement, enforce their right to take the car back and 
register a default. Moneybarn subsequently extended that deadline until 12 February 2020.
Ive not seen evidence that Mr Z asked to voluntarily terminate his agreement. During the 
call he had with Moneybarn, before the agreement was terminated, he didnt discuss 
voluntary termination or refer to any previous request he may have made to voluntarily 
terminate. During that call its clear that he doesnt want to return the car and is simply 
seeking to reach an agreement with Moneybarn to pay off the arrears over the next couple of 
weeks. I dont think that suggests he was prepared to voluntarily terminate at that point.
Moneybarn didnt have to accept the offer Mr Z made to clear the arrears within the next two 
weeks. Theyd already shown significant forbearance and the consequences of not clearing 
the arrears by 12 February 2020 had been made clear to Mr Z.
So, I dont think Moneybarn were wrong to terminate the agreement as they did on 13 
February 2020.
Im not therefore asking Moneybarn to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman