DRN-3720406
The complaint
Ms H and Mr J have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim 
under their home insurance policy.
References to AXA include companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Ms H and Mr J contacted AXA to make a claim for storm damage when a wall was damaged 
in their garden. AXA assessed the claim and declined it because it said there werent storm 
conditions around the time of the damage.
When Ms H and Mr J complained, AXA maintained its decision to decline the claim but 
offered £25 as a goodwill gesture due to delays in responding to the complaint.
So, Ms H and Mr J complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said AXA had fairly declined the claim because there wasnt evidence of storm 
conditions around the time of the damage.
As Ms H and Mr J didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
Ive looked at the weather conditions on the day Ms H and Mr J said the wall was damaged. 
This showed maximum wind gusts of 44mph. For completeness, I also looked at the weather 
conditions in the period before this to see if it made any difference. Having done so, I didnt 
see any wind speeds or gusts on the day or in the weeks before the claim that would be 
considered severe enough to be storm conditions. 
Im aware that Ms H and Mr J think a different weather station should have been used to 
check the weather conditions. However, Im not persuaded this would affect the outcome of 
this complaint. This is because, regardless of which weather station is used, Ive read UKIs 
surveyor report to see what damage was identified. 
The surveyor said the boundary wall was worn and had previously been covered in ivy, 
which had been cut back. The surveyor found that ivy had penetrated the mortar and this 
had significantly weakened the wall, including where it had ingressed the boundary wall and 
the support piers. The surveyor also noted areas of mortar erosion, including in the section 
of the wall that had fallen away. So, even if the wall was damaged during strong winds or 
storm conditions, I think the surveyors findings show that the weather conditions highlighted 
pre-existing issues with the wall, rather than being the main cause of the damage. So, I think 
the answer to at least one of the questions is no. As a result, I think it was reasonable for 
AXA to decline the claim, as the damage wasnt the result of a storm.
Ms H and Mr J were also concerned by the level of information they were given by AXA, 
which they said meant they were unable to understand why their claim had been declined. 
When AXA replied to the complaint it explained the basis on which it looked at storm claims 
and the data it had used. It also later explained that it was referring to wind gusts rather than 
wind speed, when Ms H and Mr J asked AXA to clarify this. I can understand that Ms H and 
Mr J might not have been clear about why their claim had been declined, but I think AXA 
addressed this when it responded to the complaint and explained the reason for its decision.
Ms H and Mr J also raised issues about the way their complaint was handled. Complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity, so Im unable to comment on this.
So, having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require AXA to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman