DRN-1710398
The complaint
Mr P complains, on behalf of his business, K, that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited failed to deal with a valid claim made under Ks commercial legal expenses policy. 
This resulted in a judgment being awarded against K at Court. 
Background
In mid-2018, Mr P made two claims on his DAS legal expenses insurance policy. Both 
claims were to defend legal action being pursued against K for non-payment of services. 
DAS instructed a panel firm of solicitors to deal with the first claim, which was resolved. But 
the second claim was overlooked. DAS says the paperwork Mr P had submitted contained 
documents for both legal actions, which it incorrectly treated as one case. 
In mid-2019, Mr Ps broker got in touch with DAS. They explained that Mr P had received a 
default judgment against K in respect of the second claim. And they queried why DAS hadnt 
dealt with it under the policy. This was when DAS became aware of its oversight. 
DAS reviewed the claim and said it wouldve been accepted under the policy. But it refused 
to pay the costs awarded against K. It said this was because Mr Ps actions had hindered its 
position. 
In particular DAS said the default judgment was issued against K in late 2018. Mr P then 
wrote to the Court requesting judgment be set aside stating that his insurance appointed 
legal representatives do not appear to have acted on the current legal action. A hearing was 
scheduled for May 2019 to hear the application, but Mr P did not attend. So, the Court 
awarded wasted costs in favour of the Claimant. The Claimant has since sought to enforce 
the costs order against K. Mr P says K had to pay around £6,000 to discharge the debt. 
It wasnt until after the matter concluded that Mr Ps broker contacted DAS again, almost a 
year after the claim was first made, to explain DAS had failed to act on the claim submitted 
to it. 
DAS acknowledged its initial mistake and offered K £200 in compensation for its omission. 
But it said that Mr P received letters from both it and the panel solicitor in relation to the first 
claim, but not the second. So this shouldve prompted him to get in touch to find out what 
was happening with the second claim. And he didnt contact DAS after the default judgment 
had been issued against K nor when a hearing had been listed to consider his application to 
set it aside. Because of this DAS doesnt think it should do anything further.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed that DAS had made a mistake 
initially by overlooking the second claim. But he didnt think Mr P had acted reasonably by 
not following up on the claim and applying to set aside the judgment then failing to attend the 
hearing for it. He felt these actions hindered DAS position, so he didnt think DAS needed to 
do anything beyond the offer of £200 to put things right. Mr P didnt agree with our investigator. He says that DAS breached the terms of his policy by 
failing to act on his initial instructions. He also felt the investigator placed  greater weight on 
his actions despite them being necessary as a result of DAS error.  Because of this the 
complaint has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding Ks 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.  
Its not in dispute that DAS overlooked Ks second claim. DAS said this claim wasnt clearly 
presented and that the paperwork for it had been included within the first claim. But it 
accepts that it was wrong not to pick up on it. Given DAS accepts it did something wrong, 
the issue I need to decide is  whether it has done enough to put things right, taking into 
account everything the parties have told me and the evidence Ive seen in this complaint. 
DAS wrote to Mr P in June 2018 accepting Ks first claim. Cover was put in place for a panel 
solicitor to act on his behalf and their file was closed in July 2018 when Mr P informed it the 
matter had settled. Given both claims were submitted together and Mr P heard nothing in 
respect of the second claim at all, Im surprised he didnt contact DAS about this. And I 
wouldve expected him to do so. But thats not what happened.
Mr P received a default judgment against him several months later. But despite this he still 
didnt contact DAS. Rather he applied to set it aside. The reason he gave for doing so was 
that his insurance appointed legal representatives had failed to take action. This suggests 
that Mr P knew DAS hadnt done anything about his claim but he still didnt contact them to 
let them know there was a problem. And even after a hearing was listed, Mr P took no action 
to inform DAS, nor did he attend the hearing, which resulted in the judgment against K 
remaining and an order for costs being made.  I dont think DAS is responsible for this. 
The decision to apply to set aside judgment was Mr Ps and his alone. I might have thought 
differently had Mr P informed DAS of the default judgment against K and DAS had taken no 
action but that wasnt the case here. And I think that had Mr P alerted DAS to their initial 
omission to consider the claim, they wouldve assessed it and decided whether they were 
prepared to accept cover. In this case DAS says it wouldve accepted cover and defended 
the claim. So Im persuaded that if Mr P had told DAS of its omission sooner, DAS wouldve 
taken action to prevent matters escalating to the position K finds itself in now.
As matters stand, I think that Mr Ps actions have resulted in both the costs order and the 
judgement remaining against K. So I dont think DAS should be responsible for these. But I 
agree that DAS should compensate K for its initial omission and Im satisfied that its offer of 
£200 is fair in these circumstances to put matters right. Because of this I wont be asking 
DAS to do anything more. If Mr P wishes to accept that offer and the sum hasnt already 
been paid to K, he should contact DAS directly.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr P had multiple opportunities to prevent or minimise the costs 
being awarded against K as well as the judgment in default. And I cant fairly say that DAS is 
responsible for this.
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ks complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman