DRN-3541167
The complaint
Miss M has complained that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA didnt refund an unauthorised 
payment at first.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In October 2021, Miss Ms PayPal account was used for a purchase of around £780.
PayPal initially declined Miss Ms fraud claim. Miss M has explained that she had a lot of 
trouble trying to sort things out on the phone, and that the delay in getting her money back 
meant she had to use credit in the meantime  meaning shed been charged interest.
In January 2022, Miss M came to our service, and PayPal reviewed the matter again. They 
accepted the payment was unauthorised, and refunded it. They also offered Miss M £200 
compensation to help put things right.
Our investigator looked into things independently and thought PayPals offer was fair. 
Miss M didnt agree. She reckoned that her losses came to over £400. She asked for an 
ombudsman to review her case afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I understand that Miss M has been the victim of a crime here, and so she has my 
sympathy  I imagine that the fraudster caused her a good deal of stress.
Im glad to see that PayPal have now refunded the disputed payment, even if this refund 
came later than it should have. Ive thought carefully about what PayPal got wrong and the 
impact it had on Miss M.
Miss M explained that while she was without her money, she had to spend a similar amount 
using her credit facility. She provided a summary showing the interest rate was 54.9%. She 
therefore reckons she was charged over £400 in interest.
I understand Miss Ms thinking and where her misconception has come from. But to clarify, 
that 54.9% interest rate is an annual rate  its how much Miss M would have been charged 
in interest if shed let the balance sit unpaid for a whole year. Its not a flat rate, and was not 
added in the way that Miss M worked out. If Miss M goes through her individual transactions, 
she will find that she was not charged £400 in interest between October and January, or 
anything near that.
Indeed, the significant majority of Miss Ms spending on that credit facility was on her 
January 2022 statement  so it was spending done from mid-December to early January. 
That means that for the bulk of the spending, it only accrued around a month or so of interest 
 or even less  before PayPal refunded her.
I cant see the exact amounts of interest Miss M was charged, because weve only been 
given a summary of the account rather than full statements. And the summary doesnt show 
the dates or amounts of individual transactions, only a total of what was spent or paid each 
month. But based on what I can see, Id estimate that Miss M was charged around £70 or so 
of interest before PayPal refunded her  not £400. Though again, I appreciate why she 
initially thought it might be around £400.
Of course, I think PayPal need to account for that loss, as well as the upset the delay caused 
to Miss M, and the trouble she faced in trying to sort things out on the phone. I appreciate 
that this happened around the holiday period, which made things that bit more stressful.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to 
acknowledge their mistakes and the impact they had. In terms of the amount, I need to keep 
in mind that it was the fraudster  rather than PayPal  who defrauded Miss M, and so it was 
the fraudster who was responsible for much of the general stress she went through. I also 
need to keep in mind that were here to resolve complaints, rather than to issue large fines. 
And I note that PayPal did refund the payment in the end  and while they should not have 
delayed things for Miss M, the delay was not what Id consider severely long.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award. Taking everything into 
account, I think that the £200 offered is fair to put right the losses Miss M suffered here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part, and direct PayPal 
(Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to pay her £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman