DRN-3292858
The complaint
Ms K has complained that when she asked Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) to downgrade 
her fee-paying packaged account, she was told that if she did so, she would not be entitled 
to have an overdraft.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she did not find in Ms Ks favour. Ms K 
did not accept the adjudicators findings, so asked for the matter to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that where evidence is lacking and matters are in dispute, as is the case 
here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based on everything 
that is available. This means that I cannot just consider Ms Ks recollection of events in 
isolation. Instead, I must weigh up Ms Ks recollection of events together with all of the other 
evidence that is available, to decide what I think was most likely to have happened.
Ms K says that she went to a Halifax branch in 2013 to inform Halifax of a change of name. 
Ms K says that when she was there, she asked to downgrade her account, as she was no 
longer able to afford the monthly account fee. Ms K says she was told that if she 
downgraded her account, she would lose her £300 overdraft facility. Because of this, Ms K 
says she chose to keep her fee-paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Conversely, Halifax says that it does not believe the member of staff wouldve said this to Ms 
K, as the ability to have an overdraft is not related to the type of account held by the account 
holder. However, Halifax does say that if Ms K enquired about downgrading her account, 
she wouldve been informed that downgrading her account to a fee-free account would result 
in her losing the £300 charge-free overdraft benefit that came with the packaged account. 
Having considered the competing arguments, overall Im not able to say that its more likely 
than not the Ms K was incorrectly told that she could not have an overdraft at all, if she 
chose to downgrade it. I will explain why.
Firstly, Ms Ks recollections relate to a conversation she had with her bank more than 8 
years ago. And Im mindful that memories can fade and change over time. 
Furthermore, in 2013, one of the benefits of the URCA, was that it provided a charge-free 
overdraft benefit of up to £300. And I note that Ms Ks overdraft limit at the time happened to 
be £300  suggesting that it had been set at this level so that she could maximise use of this 
feature.
Ms K has told us that she checked an overdraft calculator and believes she would only pay 
£7.68 in overdraft interest and has rarely used the overdraft for more than a few days. 
However, Ms Ks comments appear to relate to her recent use of the account and the current 
overdraft charging structure  which are largely irrelevant in this case, as I must consider the 
circumstances from 2013 i.e. when she says she was given the wrong information. 
Based on what Ms K has told us about her circumstances in 2013, keeping her £300 
overdraft limit was clearly very important to her. But if she had downgraded to a fee-free 
account in 2013, Ms K would not have been charged interest if her account went overdrawn. 
Instead, she wouldve been charged £1 for every day that her account was overdrawn. 
Whereas keeping the URCA meant that Ms K would not pay these daily fees (provided she 
remained within her £300 limit) and would pay a fixed monthly fee of £15 instead. 
Therefore, if Ms K was told that shed lose this benefit when she enquired about 
downgrading  which I think she probably was - I think its likely that this was why Ms K 
chose to keep the URCA. I say this especially because Ms K has told us that she was aware 
her income was due to reduce at the time, so there was clearly the possibility that her 
account mayve ended up being overdrawn even more than it had been up to that point. And 
having looked at Ms Ks statements from the time, I can see she was regularly using her 
overdraft each month. So there was a possibility that downgrading to a fee-free account 
couldve ended up costing her even more in overdraft charges compared to what the URCA 
cost, if her reliance on her overdraft increased. 
So taking everything into account, I think that it is more likely that Ms K was told that if she 
downgraded her account, she would lose the £300 charge free overdraft benefit, rather than 
she would not be able to have her £300 overdraft at all.
Of course, with the benefit of hindsight, Ms K may now think that keeping the URCA was not 
the right decision and it has ended up being poor value for money for her. But this in itself 
doesnt mean that what I think Halifax likely told her at the time about losing the overdraft 
benefit was wrong.
As such, when weighing up what I think was most likely to have happened, Im not able to 
say that its likely that Halifax incorrectly told Ms K that she would lose her overdraft if she 
downgraded to a fee-free account. Because of this, I dont think itd be appropriate to ask 
Halifax to refund Ms Ks URCA fees from 2013.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman