DRN-2538801
The complaint
Mr V complains that Phoenix Life Limited didnt follow his instructions and this led to his 
policy lapsing.
What happened
Mr V had a reviewable whole-of-life assurance policy with Phoenix Life. In 2018, at his 
review, it wrote to Mr V to explain that his sum assured needed to be reduced if he wanted to 
keep his premiums at the same level. It gave him the options of reducing his sum assured to 
around £28,000, which would be sustainable for ten years, or reducing it to around £13,000 
which should be sustainable for life.
Mr V wrote back to Phoenix Life but didnt accept either of these options. Instead, he asked 
for his sum assured to be reduced to £70,000. Phoenix Life accepted this instruction but 
explained this could only be maintained until June 2019, at which point Mr Vs policy would 
lapse.
In 2019, Phoenix Life explained to Mr V that to sustain his policy, hed need to reduce his 
sum assured to around £13,000 which should be sustainable for life under his current 
premiums. Mr V wrote to Phoenix Life and asked for the sum assured to be reduced to 
£40,000 without a reduction in premium.
In May 2019 Phoenix Life wrote to Mr V to explain it wasnt possible to reduce his sum 
assured to £40,000. It outlined options for him to reduce the sum assured to around £13,000 
or for him to purchase a top-up policy which would make up the difference to £40,000 but 
hed have to pay additional premiums for this. Mr V didnt accept any of these options and 
Phoenix Life wrote to him on 10 June 2019 to explain the policy had lapsed.
Mr V complained. He believes that Phoenix Life shouldve acted on his instructions and 
reduced the sum assured to £40,000. He believes this wouldve been sustainable for around 
a year. And he thinks Phoenix Life has acted against the terms of his policy by not following 
these instructions.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Phoenix Life had 
explained to Mr V that it couldnt carry out his request and gave him the available options to 
keep his life cover in place. It also said that the policy would lapse if he didnt choose one of 
these options. The investigator also explained that the policy lapsed in line with the terms of 
the policy.
Mr V disagreed. He said that Phoenix Life didnt give him the option of a sum assured that 
could be sustained for ten years which it had done in the past. He believes it should have 
carried out his instructions, or at least provided a higher sum assured sustainable for ten 
years. Our investigator explained that Mr Vs actions in 2018 of reducing the sum assured to 
£70,000 rather than any of the calculated amounts meant that Phoenix Life wasnt able to 
offer an amount sustainable for ten years. It offered Mr V the available options so our 
investigator felt it had acted fairly.
Mr V continued to disagree and asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Vs complaint has arisen because his policy lapsed without value. He believes this is 
because Phoenix Life didnt follow his instructions, but I dont think this is the case. From the 
evidence Ive looked at, I can see Mr Vs policy was reviewed in line with the policy terms. In 
2018, Mr V chose not to accept the recommended cover levels set out in the review. Instead, 
he asked for his sum assured to be reduced to £70,000 without changing the premiums. This 
was significantly higher than the options Phoenix Life had given him. Im satisfied Phoenix 
Life gave Mr V the correct warnings that his policy would lapse by the following year.
Ive also seen that Phoenix Life gave Mr V options in 2019 to keep his policy in place. This 
was because it was close to lapsing due to Mr Vs instruction of reducing the premium to 
£70,000. When Mr V asked to have his sum assured reduced to £40,000 rather than 
accepting the option of reducing it to around £13,000 Phoenix Life explained this wasnt 
possible. Ive seen the system notes which show that Mr Vs premiums would not support 
this level of sum assured. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Phoenix Life to have 
lapsed the policy when Mr V didnt accept the other options available. I can see that its 
entitled to do this in line with the terms. And I think it gave Mr V enough warning both in 2018 
and also in the letter in 2019 which said explicitly that the policy would lapse if he didnt take 
one of the options available.
Mr V has said Phoenix Life shouldve given him an option to have a sum assured 
sustainable for ten years as it had in previous reviews. But in the review in 2019, Phoenix 
Life had to give Mr V options to prevent his policy from lapsing. As Mr V had actively chosen 
to set the sum assured at a much higher level than offered in his 2018 review, Phoenix Life 
wasnt able to offer the usual options and this review was only necessary because of this 
action in 2018. Ive seen what options were available and these were made clear to Mr V. I 
dont think Phoenix Life has acted unreasonably when outlining these options to him.
I understand Mr V feels he should be able to reduce the sum assured to an amount of his 
choosing, but in this case it wasnt possible to reduce it to £40,000 for the premiums he was 
paying. Phoenix Life made it clear to Mr V it wasnt possible and gave him the options 
available. Because Mr V didnt accept any of these options, his policy lapsed. As such, I 
dont think Phoenix Life has done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman