DRN-4109057
The complaint
Mr F complains that Revolut Ltd wont reimburse him the money he lost when he fell victim 
to a scam in 2021.
What happened
Mr F holds an account with Revolut. In December 2021, he explains he received a message 
through social media which didnt look to be intended for him. He responded and began a 
conversation with the sender. He was told about an investment opportunity in crypto mining 
with a company I will refer to as M.
Mr F already held a wallet with a crypto exchange which Ill refer to as B. Using his Revolut 
account Mr F had made payments to and received money back from B for a number of 
years. He was told hed need to set up another crypto exchange wallet with C to enable his 
investment in M. 
Mr F sent several payments over the course of a few days from his Revolut account to his 
wallet with B. Each of these payments was made as a Euro denominated SEPA transfer. 
Once received in his wallet at B, Mr F purchased cryptocurrency and sent it on to his wallet 
with C. From there, it went to M, and Mr F indicates that final step may have happened 
without his consent.
When Mr F later tried to withdraw funds from M, it initially told him a fee would apply. But 
then his account with M was blocked. While hed previously received some funds back, this 
had been a very small sum relative to the overall amount hed sent to M, and Mr F was 
therefore left significantly out of pocket. He realised hed been scammed and reported the 
matter to Revolut (as well as B and C).
Revolut said it wasnt liable to reimburse Mr F. It had followed his instructions in sending the 
payments hed asked it to make to his wallet with B. Hed authorised it to make those 
payments to B. It couldnt recover the money hed lost because once it had arrived in his 
wallet with B Mr F had utilised the funds, purchasing cryptoassets.
Mr F didnt accept this and referred his complaint to this service for an impartial review. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt think Revolut had treated Mr F unfairly. 
The Investigator noted that the payments Mr F had sent from Revolut had been to B which 
was a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange that Mr F had been using for some years before. 
She said the amounts hed sent werent significantly different to the legitimate transfers hed 
previously made to B. She didnt think the payments Mr F was making as a result of the 
scam stood out significantly enough from his normal transactions to the extent that shed 
have expected Revolut to intervene or take additional steps to warn him. So she didnt find 
Revolut at fault and didnt require it to refund his losses.
As Mr F didnt accept our Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to reach 
a final decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr F. Mr F was the victim of a crime here and hes 
has explained about the impact this has had on him. He was deceived by a scam that led 
him to believe he was investing his money and making significant profits. Hes been left out 
of pocket by a significant sum as a result of this scam.
However, the main cause of these losses were the scammers who deceived Mr F. For me to 
say Revolut is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that it could and should 
have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its obligations in some other 
way.
Under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, Revolut has a primary obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction 
without undue delay. As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised 
payment rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud 
or scam - for example as part of an investment scam such as this was. 
The relevant payment instruction here is that from Revolut to B. While Mr F explains that he 
did not have full control over the wallet held with C, that is not something Revolut could 
reasonably have had knowledge of at the time  Mr F hadnt spoken to Revolut about the 
payments he was making. 
Based on the evidence provided, I am satisfied that Mr F authorised the payments he made 
from Revolut to B - albeit doing so believing he was investing in a scheme which later turned 
out to be fraudulent. In the first instance therefore, Mr F is liable for those transfers from 
Revolut.
However, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice Revolut should have been 
looking out for payments or payment patterns that were significantly out of character or 
unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential for financial detriment to its 
customer through fraud or a scam. So Ive thought carefully about whether the available 
evidence demonstrates that Revolut did enough given the specific circumstances here.
Firstly, Mr F had previously made payments to B from his Revolut account which were not 
scam related and appear to have been entirely legitimate in nature. Mr Fs Revolut 
statements show that between 2017 and the time of the scam, hed made around fifteen 
such Euro denominated transfers from Revolut to B. The largest of these was for just over 
€17,000. This fell on a date hed already made another transfer to B (and there were other 
occasions hed made more than one payment to B in a single day). In all he appears to have 
made six legitimate transfers to B for sums of €10,000 or more, and he also received a 
number of credits back to his Revolut account from that source. 
Taking everything into consideration, I find that the payments Mr F made from Revolut to B 
in connection with the scam (the largest being €15,000) do not look significantly different to 
his prior account usage. I dont think Revolut was at fault in not identifying these payments 
were other than legitimate transfers to Mr Fs wallet with B.In short, while Ive carefully considered all of the points Mr F has made, I do not find there 
was enough here for me to say that Revolut needed to intervene rather than fulfil its primary 
obligation to carry out Mr Fs instructions. It had no sufficient grounds to do otherwise. So I 
cant fairly hold it liable here, I do not find it at fault in making the payments in line with Mr Fs 
requests at the time.
Lastly, I am satisfied that Revolut could not have recovered the money Mr F had transferred 
to B. When hed sent funds to B hed used that to purchase cryptoassets, sending those on 
to his wallet with C, from where they had gone to M. As part of that process, no funds 
remained for Revolut to recover. 
In saying all of the above, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened 
to Mr F and I am sorry he has lost out. He was the victim of a crime and a cruel scam 
carefully designed to defraud him of his money. I appreciate that what hes lost here is a 
significant sum. But it is simply the case that I dont find Revolut was at fault in making these 
payments in line with the instructions he gave the bank at the time, and I dont find the bank 
liable to refund him for any other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint about Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman