DRN-2906540
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard sent him marketing
materials about the Barclaycard he held, although hed opted out of receiving marketing.
  
What happened
Mr G said hed complained to Barclays because it was sending him direct mailing
encouraging him to make balance transfers. He said hed opted out of all marketing, and he
felt that this was marketing.
Mr G said that hed now exercised his right under the relevant legislation to explicitly prohibit
Barclays from using or processing his data. Mr G said he also intended to raise this with
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) as well as with us.
Barclays said that it thinks balance transfer information is account servicing information
(because its specific to his account) rather than direct marketing. But it was able to take
immediate action to stop future mailings. The lead-in time for mailings like this means it
could take up to eight weeks for that stop to take effect.
Barclays said Mr G complained in early September 2019. It had tried to contact Mr G straight
away after he contacted it, but it hadnt been able to get in touch with him by phone. It said it
sent him a secure message straight away to tell him it was switching off the emails he didnt
want. But sending a formal complaint response letter to him took a bit longer, because
Barclaycard was dealing with a very high number of complaints at the time.
Barclays wrote to Mr G on 28 December 2019. It said then that it knew Mr G would prefer
not to receive marketing information. It said that it regards balance transfer information as an
account servicing communication, not marketing. But it wouldnt send him these in future. It
offered Mr G £10 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that there was no
evidence that Mr G had previously opted out of marketing, before early September, and
action was taken then to opt him out, so our investigator didnt think that Barclays had to
do more on this.
Our investigator said that Barclays had taken a long time to provide a formal response to
Mr G, but he noted that the content of this formal response was the same as was sent to
Mr G on the day he first complained.
Our investigator said that Mr G had suffered no financial loss, and he thought that the £10
Barclays had offered was sufficient to cover the inconvenience.
Mr G said he wanted the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He didnt think that
Barclays complaint handling was fit for purpose, and he said if he hadnt chased, he didnt
think it wouldve responded at all. And he said that a £10 gesture of goodwill wasnt
reasonable, his time was worth more than that.
Our investigator said that he hadnt addressed an issue in Mr Gs first discussions with us,
where Mr G said he made a subject access request which Barclays hadnt responded to
within 30 days. He said that our service can't make a determination about whether the bank
failed to comply with data protection legislation. The ICO regulates data protection law in the
UK and Mr G could make a report to that office if he thought that Barclays hadn't complied
with his request.
Mr G said he was aware of the ICO, but that doesnt change Barclays duty under law to
provide information within 30 days. Mr G said that has relevance to the complaint he had
made and also to Barclays complaint handling process, which does fall under our
jurisdiction. Mr G said that Barclays shouldve sent him this information and he would then
have provided it to our service as part of the complaint process. So he said that the outcome
of this complaint had been prejudiced by non-compliance.
Our investigator asked Barclays about this, and it said that Mr G hadnt made a subject
access request. Because Mr G had asked for an ombudsman review, this case was then
passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I know our investigator thought that Mr G hadnt previously opted out of receiving 
marketing, but I thought the position on that was less clear cut than this. The email 
that Barclays sent to Mr G when he first complained appears to me to acknowledge 
that his account is already set to receive no marketing.
Mr G now argues that the messages he has been sent about balance transfer offers 
are marketing, and shouldve been covered by his previous opt-out from marketing 
materials. Mr G doesnt think he shouldve had to ask Barclays specifically not to 
send these. And hes unhappy with how it responded when it did.
What Mr G asks me to do here is to make a finding on the nature of the emails he 
was sent  are these marketing materials or not? I know he is confident these are, 
and he says his background makes him well positioned to reach a decision on that. 
However, our service isnt the expert body on data protection issues like this one. 
Thats the ICO. I would always be guided by that organisation in my findings here.
I can see that the ICO website says this 
Routine customer service messages do not count as direct marketing  in 
other words, correspondence with customers to provide information they need 
about a current contract or past purchase (e.g. information about service 
interruptions, delivery arrangements, product safety, changes to terms and 
conditions, or tariffs).
So I can see why Barclays would say that information on an offer which includes a 
change to Mr Gs terms, in the form of a reduced interest rate, for example, would not 
be considered to be marketing materials.
I should stress I am not saying Barclays is right. I can see arguments on both sides. 
And as our service is very definitely not the expert body in this area, I make no 
finding on this. I dont think its a clear-cut issue, and I would therefore defer to the 
ICO. I understand Mr G has already raised concerns about Barclays with the ICO. I 
think if Mr G wants an adjudication on this particular point, it should come from there.What does fall to me to consider is whether Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably 
in this case. And I think it has. It has acted on what it understood Mr Gs 
requirements to be about marketing. When he said he didnt want balance transfer 
messages, it acted promptly to make this change.
I know that Barclays didnt provide a formal complaint response to Mr G for some 
months. But it did send him a secure message responding to his request for balance 
transfer messages to stop. That message was sent on the same day that Mr G made 
this request, it said Barclays had acted to implement his request, and it offered Mr G 
£10 as a gesture of goodwill. I think that Barclays should pay that, so I will require it 
to do so, if it hasnt already.
Mr G rejected this offer, and said he would complain to both our service and the ICO. 
I do understand that it then took Barclays quite some time to respond to his complaint 
formally, and that Mr G said he never received the final response that Barclays has 
shown to our service. But I think Barclays had already acted promptly, and set out its 
position, almost immediately when it heard from Mr G. And I note that it did write to 
Mr G to say that he could bring his complaint to our service once it was past the 
deadline for providing him with that formal complaint response.
I know Mr G wont agree with me, because he has already rejected this offer, but I 
think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Mr G has also said that he made a subject access request for his data, which 
Barclays didnt reply to within the set deadlines. I understand that Mr G has now 
received this response. But he said that he felt that this had prejudiced the outcome 
of his complaint, because he wasnt able to send information to us. I dont think thats 
right. Our service doesnt expect individuals to make a subject access request in 
order to support a complaint to us. We ask businesses to provide information directly 
to us. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr Gs case wouldve been different if 
other information had been sent to us  including from Mr G, whose subject access 
request has now been fulfilled.
Ive set out that I dont think that our service is the appropriate body to adjudicate on 
whether what has been sent to Mr G constituted marketing materials under data 
protection law. And once that issue is set aside, although I know Mr G will be 
disappointed, I dont think that this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays wrote to say that it agreed with the provisional decision. It said that it had checked, 
and couldnt see that the £10 it had offered had been paid, so it had now arranged to do this. 
Mr G wrote to object. He said that wed decided that a balance transfer was account 
servicing. He strongly disagreed with that, he said that what Barclays was doing was 
designed to attract business, so by definition this is direct marketing. Mr G said he was well 
placed to comment on this. He thought that the FCA would consider this direct marketing. He 
said that there was a lot of money for lenders in this part of the business, and they were 
using sophisticated analysis to target offers at customers. Mr G said that as Barclays failed to respond to his data access requests, he had been 
unable to obtain a copy of the application, when he had opted out of all marketing. 
And Mr G also said something new  that he had already complained previously about the 
same issue. Mr G told us that Barclays upheld this complaint. He said he hadnt kept the 
letter it wrote him, but this was as recent as 2019. 
Following this, our service wrote to both sides. I said to Mr G that on 15 June, he had told us 
that Barclays did give him the information hed asked for through a data access request. So 
if he did now have evidence that he would like me to consider, he could send it now. Mr G 
replied to say that he intended to complain, and take this issue further. 
I also asked Barclays if Mr G had previously complained about the same issue. It has replied 
to say that it had checked that when the complaint first came to our service, and in response 
to our request it had checked again. It said that Mr G hadnt complained before about the 
same issue. 
Mr G has told us hed made a previous complaint about this in 2019. I can see that the final 
response letter Mr G originally sent to our service, which started this case, was dated late 
2019. Its possible that this is the letter Mr G is referring to now. I dont think its likely that 
Mr G also made a complaint to Barclays before this one, that were looking into now, about 
the same thing.
Mr G said that our service had decided that the mailings he was receiving about balance 
transfers werent direct marketing. It falls to me, as the deciding ombudsman in this case, to 
have the final word on this complaint. And I would like to stress that I have not made a 
decision on this point. I was clear in my provisional decision that I would make no finding on 
this, because I felt that this was an issue best addressed through the complaint Mr G told us 
he had made to the ICO. I still think that.
I know Mr G has strong views on this complaint, so I understand that he will be disappointed 
by my findings. But I dont think its for our service to set out the legal position on what 
constitutes direct marketing materials. And, although I know Mr G doesnt agree with me 
here, I dont think Barclays has behaved unfairly, or unreasonably. I still dont think it has to 
do more than it previously offered. So Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must pay Mr G the 
£10 it previously offered, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman