DRN-1484603
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I have complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs I took out the PPI at around the same time as arranging the mortgage in 2009. 
Although they arranged their mortgage via a broker, the PPI was arranged directly with 
Santander over the phone.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs I disagree with the adjudicators 
view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Is complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs I originally said that they had no recollection of PPI being added to the mortgage 
account. More recently they have said that they we told by their broker they had to buy PPI 
in order for the mortgage to be agreed and that this was an instruction from Santander. 
Clearly these two statements are at odds with each other. Im therefore not persuaded that 
Mr and Mrs I have any clear memory of the sale, which is not surprising given how long ago 
it took place.
Mr and Mrs I were sold the policy when Santander gave them a PPI marketing call, following 
the arrangement of the mortgage. Ive seen the call script that was in use at the time and am 
satisfied from the wording that the sales adviser was prompted to explain that someone had 
a choice about taking out the policy. I have no evidence that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case. Overall I consider that Mr and Mrs I decided to 
buy the PPI, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing so.
This was a non-advised sale, meaning that Santander didnt have to ensure that the policy 
met Mr and Mrs Is needs. But it did need to provide them with enough information for them 
to be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them.
The call script shows that some broad information about the costs and benefits were 
provided at the time. I consider that Mr and Mrs I must have known something about the 
policy  that it would provide cover for their mortgage repayment if they were unable to work 
 because I dont think theyd have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. 
And I am satisfied that the cost would have been made clear at the time  so they would 
have known what theyd be paying for the policy.Mr and Mrs I chose to split the benefit 60/40 in favour of Mrs I. This seems sensible as Mrs I 
was the higher earner at the time and the split is broadly in line with their respective 
incomes. And they didnt choose to take out unemployment cover. All of this suggest to me 
that there must have been some discussion about the policy and how it could best meet the 
couples needs.
Mr I says he would have received sick pay from his employer, although he hasnt provided 
details of exactly what his entitlement would have been. But regardless of that, the policy 
would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr I would 
have received full pay for. And Mrs I wouldnt have received any sick pay. They didnt have 
any other means, such as savings, that they could fall back on. Theyve said that family 
would have helped. But presumably asking someone else to pay your mortgage repayments 
for you would have been a last resort. So I think the couple had a need for the policy and 
could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Mr I has said that he had life assurance cover and would have received redundancy pay. But 
as the PPI didnt include life or unemployment cover, it wasnt replicating that existing cover.
Its possible that Santander didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover, but Mr and Mrs I werent really affected 
by any of those things (for the reasons explained by our adjudicator). As I consider they had 
an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would 
have caused them to change their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything 
Santander may have done wrong, so there is nothing that Santander needs to do to put 
things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman