DRN-3953064
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the way that Great Lakes Insurance SE has handled a claim for 
unemployment that he made on his insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B was made redundant in June 2022 and so made a claim on the policy, which was 
accepted by Great Lakes. However, Great Lakes deemed that the claim would be payable 
from 18 October 2022 to take account of a period when Mr B was receiving pay in lieu of 
notice (PILON) from his employer. However, Mr B was awarded job seekers allowance 
(JSA) two weeks after he was made redundant and believes that the claim should be 
payable from 30 days after that date.
Our adjudicator thought that Great Lakes had acted reasonably in assessing the claim. Mr B 
disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy defines unemployment as:
Unemployed/Unemployment: Being entirely without Work for payment or reward, registered 
as Unemployed at a Job Centre, and be able to prove You are applying for jobs - and 
actively seeking - Work. We will not consider You as Unemployed for any day You receive 
Payment In Lieu Of Notice.
The policy also states:
If You make a claim for Unemployment and You receive a Payment In Lieu Of Notice, the 
number of days before You can claim wont start until the Payment In Lieu Of Notice period 
has ended or the date You awarded the appropriate Unemployment benefit from the Job 
Centre.
The policy has a 30 day excess period, meaning that it doesnt pay out for the first 30 days 
of unemployment. Mr Bs last day at work was 17 June 2022. Part of the agreement with his 
employer was that he was paid three months pay in lieu of notice. Great Lakes therefore 
calculated that Mr B had been paid up until 17 September 2022. With the 30 day excess 
period following on from that, that took the start date of his claim to 18 October 2022.
Mr B thinks that the second set of policy wording, as set out above, entitles the claim to be 
paid from 30 days after he was awarded JSA. He argues that the use of the word or means 
that the claim would either start after the end of a PILON period or after an award of JSA, 
one or the other, whichever came first.
Mr B doesnt dispute that he was paid 3 months PILON. But he argues that the PILON was 
part of an overall settlement agreement. He received a lump sum up front as opposed to 
being paid monthly for those three months. So he wasnt on gardening leave and being paid 
monthly, which would technically have made him still employed until 17 September 2022. 
Essentially his employment had ended on 17 June 2022 and he was free to look for a new 
job from that point, which was why he was accepted for JSA in June 2022.
The circumstances of Mr Bs redundancy are not untypical. He was made redundant on 17 
June 2022 and his employment ended on that date. But he was paid in advance for a further 
three months rather than having to work his notice. 
The definition of Unemployed/Unemployment in the policy is not in dispute  and that makes 
it clear that a person will not be considered to be unemployed whilst they are in receipt of 
PILON. 
I agree that the second set of wording relating to the start of the excess period isnt as clear 
as it could be and understand why Mr B has challenged it. However, in determining what is 
fair and reasonable, Ive thought about what the intention of the policy is.
In this case the intention of the unemployment insurance is to provide cover if a policyholder 
has lost their job and is no longer in receipt of an income. So the significant factor is not the 
date that Mr B was made redundant, its the date that he was paid up until. Based on the 
available evidence, Im satisfied that Mr B was paid PILON by his former employer which 
effectively provided him with an income up until 17 September 2022. It then follows on that, 
given the 30 day excess period, the claim was assessed as having a start date of 18 
October 2022. 
Although I know it will be disappointing to Mr B, overall, Im satisfied that Great Lakes has 
acted fairly in assessing the start date of the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman