DRN-2499320
The complaint
Miss R complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) didnt refund a disputed transaction made using 
her debit card that she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary of the key events here. On 28 August 2020 Miss Rs debit card details were 
used to make an online payment for £664.99. 
A few days later, Miss R called Monzo to report that on 28 August 2020 shed received a 
phone call from someone claiming to be from Monzo. She said the caller told her there had 
been some fraudulent activity and asked her to verify a payment made on the account. 
Miss R said while on the phone she could see a payment for £664.99. She says she told the 
caller she didnt recognise this payment. The caller then asked her to share some details but 
she refused to do so, particularly as shed been a victim of fraud in the past. Monzo 
explained that they hadnt made this call to her and it was likely a scam. 
Miss R asked Monzo to provide a refund as she hadnt made the payment. Monzo declined 
Miss Rs claim. They werent satisfied the payment was fraudulent because it had been 
authorised using a code which was sent by SMS to Miss Rs phone, which was inputted onto 
the merchants website to complete the payment. 
Miss R got in touch with the merchant to see if they could provide her with any information 
about the transaction, but unfortunately as she didnt have the order number, the merchant 
wasnt able to assist further. 
Miss R didnt agree with Monzos decision and so she raised a complaint. Monzo maintained 
their position to hold Miss R liable for the payment. Unhappy with this, Miss R brought her 
complaint to this service. In doing so, she said the caller asked her to share her long card 
number, CVV number and postal address but that she didnt share this information with 
them. She said she received the SMS code but didnt share it, and that her phone was in her 
possession at the time and is protected by Facial Recognition ID.
The investigator looking into the complaint again asked Miss R to confirm she hadnt shared 
her security details. Miss R was adamant she hadnt. Taking into account what Miss R had 
said and the technical evidence provided by Monzo, the investigator didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. In summary he said the payment was completed by entering 
the SMS code Miss R received on the phone and so its more likely than not Miss R 
authorised it. 
Miss R didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
She insists that she didnt authorise the payment and hadnt shared any security details. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it and Ill explain why. Ive seen the technical records 
which show the payment on 28 August 2020 was made online using Miss Rs debit card 
details. So Im satisfied that the payment was correctly authenticated.
But the regulations say that is not, on its own, enough for Monzo to hold Miss R liable for the 
payment. The regulations also say Miss R needed to have consented to the payment. In 
general terms, the bank is usually liable for unauthorised payments and the consumer will 
usually be liable for authorised payments.  
Miss R says she didnt make the payment or share security details with anybody. In cases 
like this where there is a dispute over what has happened, I have to consider all the 
evidence and make my decision on the balance of probability as to what I think is most likely 
to have happened. 
Ive carefully thought about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that 
Miss R consented to the transaction being made. And from what Ive seen I dont think its 
unreasonable for Monzo to hold Miss R liable for the payment.  
The payment in question was completed by a 3D secure code. This is the six-digit code 
sent to Miss Rs registered mobile number which was then entered onto the merchants 
website to complete the payment.
Miss R shared a screenshot with us of the SMS code shed received on the day of the 
disputed transaction. The SMS was sent on Friday 28 August 2020 at 4.48pm  so one 
minute before the payment was completed. The SMS sent to Miss R read: [ X] is the 
verification code for your £664.99 purchase to [merchant]. Dont share this with anyone. 
Miss R has said her mobile phone is accessible by Facial Recognition ID and that she didnt 
share her phone with anyone. She also said she hadnt shared her card details with anybody 
and that she takes extra care of leaving her things unattended because of fraud shes 
experienced in the past. Here the technical evidence shows the payment was completed a 
minute later by entering the six-digit code Miss R received on her mobile phone. It isnt 
possible for the payment to have been completed without that code being entered onto the 
merchants website. Even if I were to consider that somebody else had fraudulently obtained 
Miss Rs card details, this wouldnt explain how that person could know the code which was 
sent to her phone. 
There is no other plausible explanation as to how someone other than 
Miss R knew the SMS code in order to complete the payment. So overall, Im more 
persuaded by the technical evidence than by Miss Rs testimony and I therefore dont think 
Monzos decision to hold her liable is unreasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Richard AnnandaleOmbudsman