DRN-3468474
The Complaint
Mr B says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a holiday product he and his wife bought on 9 July 2008 
(the Time of Sale).
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mr Bs, because it relates to a loan in his 
sole name  which is why the complaint is only in his name. But as the transaction in 
question relates to a contract entered into by both Mr B and his wife, Ill refer to 
Mr and Mrs B throughout much of this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought a holiday product from a supplier (the Supplier) at the Time of Sale 
and used a loan from BPF to help finance the purchase. BPF says that the loan started on 
24 July 2008 and ended on 28 August that year.
Unhappy with what had happened at the Time of Sale, Mr B  using a professional 
representative (LF)  wrote to BPF on 19 June 2019 (the Letter of Claim) to make a claim 
under Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation. It was argued that Mr B would not have 
made the purchase at the Time of Sale but for the misrepresentations in question.
It doesnt look like Mr B or LF got a response from BPF to the Section 75 claim. So, a 
complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service by both Mr and Mrs B  using 
LF as their representative. 
The complaint was then looked at an investigator who, having considered everything that 
had been said and/or provided to date, concluded that BPF had a defence to Mr Bs Section 
75 claim because it had been made after the time permitted by the Limitation Act 1980 (the 
LA) had expired. And she wasnt persuaded that Mr B had more time than that to make the 
claim.
M, a professional representative now representing Mr B, disagreed with the investigators 
assessment and asked for an ombudsmans decision without giving any immediate reasons. 
Instead, it said that it would speak to Mr B before submitting a substantive response.
The investigator started the process of referring the complaint for an ombudsmans decision 
and gave both sides until 9 May 2022 to make further submissions.
As that deadline has now been and gone without either side adding to what had already 
been said and/or provided, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant provisions of the LA, a claimant has a period of six years to make a claim 
for misrepresentation  starting from the date on which the cause of action accrued, which is 
the point at which a claimant had everything they needed to make a legal claim. 
As the Letter of Claims says that Mr and Mrs B entered into an agreement to purchase a 
holiday product from the Supplier at the Time of Sale because of misrepresentations that the 
Letter suggests they relied on, Mr B had six years from when he entered into the purchase 
and credit agreements to make that claim as it was when he borrowed the money to help 
finance the purchase in question that he suffered a loss.
As Mr B entered into the purchase and credit agreements on 9 and 24 July 2008, but didnt 
submit his Section 75 claim for misrepresentation to BPF until June 2019, it fell outside of 
the relevant time limit set out in the LA. And as I cant see a reason why that time limit 
should be extended, I think BPF would have been entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to 
the claim  which means Im not persuaded that I now need to ask BPF to do anything to put 
things right.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman