DRN-3961205
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs E have complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
settled a claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E and Mrs E contacted RSA to make a claim following an escape of water at their home. 
RSA assessed the damage and said it could carry out the work, with several weeks delay, or 
pay a cash settlement. Mr E and Mrs E said they wanted a cash settlement. 
Mr E and Mrs E told RSA the amount it had offered was nowhere near the amount it would 
cost for them to do the work. RSA increased its offer. Mr E and Mrs E still didnt agree with 
the amount they had been offered. RSA confirmed it had provided an appropriate cash 
settlement for the claim.
When Mr E and Mrs E complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said RSA has offered a fair cash settlement, including increasing the amount 
offered following concerns raised by Mr E and Mrs E. She said RSA didnt need to do 
anything further.
As Mr E and Mrs E didnt agree the settlement was fair, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The policy booklet said that when RSA settled buildings claims, the amount it would pay 
wouldnt exceed the lesser of the cost of the works by its own contractors or the cost of the 
policyholders most competitive estimate.
When RSA assessed the claim, it offered to carry out the repairs itself, but said there would 
be several weeks delay. So, it also said it could pay a cash settlement. Where an insurer 
offers to carry out the work, I would normally expect it to be able to do this at a lower rate 
than a policyholder could obtain because of the rates insurers often have access to. I think it 
was reasonable that RSAs cash settlement was based on its own costs but that it agreed to 
increase what it was willing to pay following comments from Mr E and Mrs E and it looking 
into their costs further.
Mr E and Mrs E only obtained one quote for a lot of the work. RSA considered these costs 
and decided that some of them were excessive. Im aware Mr E and Mrs E said there was 
only one builder locally and that he had a good reputation. However, I dont think RSA was 
obliged to pay the builders costs. RSA looked into the different elements that made up the 
quote and increased the amount it was willing to offer, where it assessed it was fair to do so. 
I think that was reasonable.
Ive also looked at the work covered by RSAs offer and am satisfied that this covered the 
work involved in carrying out the repairs. This included replacing the damaged kitchen and 
paying a 50% contribution towards the undamaged kitchen, as well as items such as tiling, 
decorating and some plumbing and electrical work. Im aware that the amount offered was 
considerably less than Mr E and Mrs Es builders quote, but I dont think RSA needed to pay 
the full amount in the quote in order to fairly settle the claim. Im aware RSA didnt initially 
pay the VAT element as part of the settlement, but said it would do so if it was provided with 
appropriate evidence of this. Based on everything Ive seen and the investigations carried 
out by RSA into the different elements of the claim settlement, I think that the amount RSA 
offered was reasonable in the circumstances. 
So having thought about this carefully, I dont uphold this complaint or require RSA to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman