DRN-2094340
The complaint
Mr S says Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Woolwich) should have done more to let him 
know that he could save money on his buy to let mortgage by taking out new interest rate 
products. Mr S says because Barclays didnt take further action, hes paid around £25,000 of 
extra mortgage interest on Woolwichs buy to let standard variable rate (SVR) over a seven 
year period. 
Mr S would like this extra interest hes paid from 2012 to 2019 to be refunded to him now. 
What happened
In 2009 Mr S took out a buy to let mortgage with Standard Life for around £180,000 having 
had advice from a mortgage broker. The mortgage was on an interest only basis and had a 
25 year term. In early 2012 Mr Ss mortgage was transferred to Woolwich, a trading name of 
Barclays.
When Mr S took out the mortgage, it was on a three year fixed rate of 7.59% until 28 
September 2012. After that point it reverted onto Woolwichs SVR for buy to let mortgages, 
which was 5.49% at the time. 
Mr S recalls asking for a new rate in a branch in 2012 but he was told he couldnt have a rate 
due to the type of mortgage he had and its terms and conditions. A few years later he 
remembers asking again in a branch. He was told that someone would contact him about 
this but this didnt happen. 
Mr S took out a new rate on his buy to let mortgage with Barclays in May 2019. Mr S says 
the Barclays adviser he spoke to was shocked to see that hed been paying such a high rate 
of interest and that no one from the bank had ever contacted him about this. He was told that 
Barclays ask customers to review their mortgage and that she felt sorry for me as my case 
was overlooked. Mr S complained to Barclays about this in 2019.
Barclays gave its final response on 10 July 2019. It didnt think it had treated Mr S unfairly. 
Barclays said it was clear in the mortgage offer that Mr Ss interest rate product was only in 
place until September 2012 and after that time his mortgage would revert to a reversionary 
rate. Barclays also said, while it didnt have to send reminders about interest rates, it had 
been clear what interest rate was applied to Mr Ss from the mortgage statements sent 
annually. Mr S was unhappy with Barclays response and so brought his complaint to us.
Barclays gave its consent for us to investigate the fairness of the interest rate that had been 
applied to this mortgage from 2012 onwards. Our investigator looked into what had 
happened. He didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly by applying Woolwichs buy to let SVR 
to Mr S mortgage. He thought Mr S could have asked for a new interest rate deal with 
Woolwich if hed wanted to and that rates had been available. Or he thought Mr S could 
have moved his mortgage to another lender to get a more competitive interest rate if hed 
chosen to.
Mr S disagreed and replied to say, in summary:
- he disagrees that because his mortgage is buy to let that this means he should be 
more proactive towards contacting Barclays to get a better rate;
- the mortgage is his only mortgage, and this property was his one chance to get on 
the property ladder;
- he cant understand why Barclays has never contacted him to advise him to review 
the mortgage;
- hes asked friends and family and theyve all been contacted by their mortgage 
lenders 
Mr S asked that an ombudsman reach a final decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the mortgage documentation to see what was said about what interest rate 
would apply to Mr Ss mortgage when the loan was taken out. Im satisfied that the mortgage 
offer makes it clear that Mr Ss mortgage was given on a three year fixed rate of 7.59% and 
that this rate would apply until 28 September 2012.
The mortgage offer also sets out that the interest rate after that date would be a standard 
reversionary rate. I dont think its unreasonable that this was what happened to Mr Ss 
mortgage as this is a typical arrangement once an interest rate product expires and what 
was set out in his mortgages terms and conditions.
Mr S has said that he didnt receive a letter letting him know that his fixed rate was expiring 
so he didnt know about this. Im mindful that Barclays has said it didnt need to send such a 
letter as it was clear from the mortgage offer when Mr Ss product ended and the mortgage 
moved onto its SVR. 
Ive thought about whether Mr S could have known that his rate was coming to an end. Ive 
looked at Barclays contact history to see whether theres a record of any discussions 
between it and Mr S about interest rates since 2012. There are records that show Mr S 
made a series of overpayments in 2012 and it seems he was careful not to exceed the 10% 
overpayment amount allowed without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC). 
There are also records of conversations on 7 September 2012 and 12 October 2012 in 
which Mr S confirmed what his contractual monthly payments would be following 
overpayments hes been making, and he was told that once his fixed rate ended his 
mortgage would move onto the SVR which was 5.49% at the time. 
Having taken into account the dialogue between Mr S and Barclays Im satisfied that Mr S 
was aware that his product was expiring in September 2012 and that his buy to let mortgage 
would go on to the SVR at that time. 
Ive considered what Mr S has said about the difficulties he faced trying to sort out a new 
interest product in branch. He recalls he was told by Barclays in 2012 that he couldnt have a 
new interest rate because of the type of mortgage he had. Weve asked Barclays what 
interest rate products were available on Woolwich buy to let mortgages in 2012 and it seems 
there were fixed rates that would have been available to Mr S subject to application fees. So 
if rates were available, Ive thought about what might have happened at the time.Mr Ss recollection is at odds with Barclays records made at the time. Barclays contact 
history shows Mr S was referred to the sales team to explore taking out a new product in late 
2012 and in August 2013. Its not clear why Mr S didnt apply for a new rate at this time but 
theres no indication that Barclays wasnt willing to make a new interest rate available. 
In such situations where theres a dispute between the parties, I need to establish what I 
think happened on the balance of probabilities. Mr S has shared what he remembers from 
the time but he has said he doesnt recall the exact details. Im conscious that these events 
occurred years ago and human memory can be fallible. In this instance, I dont think I can 
say with certainty that Mr Ss recollection from many years ago is more reliable than records 
made by Barclays at the time of the event. 
Mr S has said that he thinks he may have asked for a rate in a branch in 2015/16 but 
Barclays never got back to him about this. In such an instance, I think it would be reasonable 
that Mr S might have followed up on this with Barclays at the time if he wanted to know more 
about what rates were available. I dont think it would be fair to expect Barclays to assume 
responsibility for the interest rate that applied to Mr Ss mortgage on the basis that it didnt 
follow up with a query he made at the time.
Barclays sent annual statements to Mr S and these clearly set out the interest rate that 
applied to the mortgage. It also wrote to Mr S each time interest rates changed either up or 
down over the years of this complaint. Im conscious that since Mr S took out this mortgage, 
prevailing interest rates had fallen. This meant by the time Mr Ss fixed rate of 7.59% 
expired, Woolwichs buy to let SVR had fallen and Mr S would have been charged less 
interest each month after his product expired. 
Some customers choose not to take out a new product when their fixed rate expires. 
Woolwichs buy to let rates at the time all involved a product fee of around £2,000. It may be 
that Mr S considered the rate deals available and decided that the SVR was good value for 
money, or that he wanted the flexibility of being able to make unlimited overpayments at any 
point without paying an ERC. Ultimately it was Mr Ss choice whether he wanted to enter into 
a new interest rate product and accept the terms of such a variation to his mortgage. 
Mr Ss mortgage is for a rental property. Mr S has said this shouldnt make any difference to 
his complaint, but I agree with our investigator that this is a relevant factor. Mr Ss property is 
an investment upon which hell be seeking a return. I would expect Mr S to have some 
awareness or regard for the interest rate that applies to his mortgage loan as part of his 
assessment of his return. I dont think it would be fair to say the same thing of a consumer 
with a residential mortgage. 
Overall, I dont think Barclays has acted unreasonably in this case. I think it has been clear 
throughout about the rate of interest that has applied to this mortgage. On a number of 
occasions Mr S has explored taking out a new rate and this has been recorded. But it seems 
hes decided not to proceed. That was Mr Ss choice. Ive not found evidence that supports 
that this was because Barclays wouldnt offer a new rate or that it wouldnt allow Mr S to 
apply for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman