DRN-1699809
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited have turned down his 
claim on his pet insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr B contacted Red Sands looking to claim for a lump on his pets rectum. Mr B 
told Red Sands his pet had fatty lumps since March 2018.
Red Sands at this point explained Mr Bs claim wouldnt be met, because it was a pre-
existing condition under their policy terms. Mr B complained about this, saying he was just 
following the vets advice that nothing needed to be done with those fatty lumps at the time. 
Because of this, he complained to Red Sands.
Red Sands replied to the complaint and said to Mr B hed been asked at the renewal of his 
policy if his pet had been to the vets for anything other than routine vaccinations. They said 
the documents say no pre-existing conditions would be covered. And they say based on the 
information theyve been given, the fatty lumps seen in March 2018 were linked to the issue 
he claimed for in May 2019  and had they been told about them, theyd have placed an 
exclusion on his policy.
Mr B didnt agree with this and asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so 
but found Red Sands have acted fairly in turning down Mr Bs claim. Because of this, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I believe Red Sands have acted fairly. I know this will come as a
disappointment to Mr B, particularly given how unhappy hes been about his claim being 
turned down.
Itll help to explain that my role when considering a complaint about a declined insurance
claim is to assess whether the insurer has acted fairly in turning it down. So, to
decide this I need to look at the reasons Red Sands have given for turning down the claim
and determine whether thats fair under the policy terms Mr B took out.
Red Sands have explained theyve turned down Mr Bs claim because it was for a pre-
existing condition. Under the section of whats not covered Red Sands say they wont cover
any costs or claims for a pre-existing condition, or an illness that showed clinical signs
before the policy started.
Red Sands have provided a copy of notes from Mr Bs vets from a visit in March 2018.
These notes say, amongst other things, Has a few lumps, all sub dermal movable. And 
Mr B has been thinking they are fatty lumps.
Mr B then took out the policy in January 2019, with Mr Bs dog being seen again in May
2019 for further issues which relate to the fatty lumps mentioned above. Ive seen Red 
Sands underwriting guide. I cant share it as its commercially sensitive, but Im satisfied with 
the information it contains.
It says if there were any problems with the dog having fatty lumps before the policy is taken 
out, then all claims for fatty lumps, or conditions resulting from fatty lumps, wouldnt be 
covered.
Given the vet recorded issues with fatty lumps in March 2018, which was before Mr Bs 
policy started, I think its fair to say this would have been considered as a pre-existing 
condition if Mr B had declared it. This means Red Sands would have most likely placed an 
exclusion on the policy for anything to do with fatty lumps. So, taking everything into 
account, Im satisfied Red Sands have fairly turned down Mr Bs claim under the policy 
terms.
Ive noted Mr B has significant concerns about the information given to him at the time he 
was taking out the policy. But, having considered the policy documents, schedule, and key 
facts documents Im satisfied Red Sands did enough to make Mr B aware of the exclusions.
I also understand Mr Bs frustration that he was just following his vets advice in March 2018 
when he didnt take any actions with them. But that doesnt mean the policy terms dont 
apply  and for the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied Red Sands have acted fairly 
in turning down Mr Bs claim.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman