DRN-4132443
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that QIC Europe Ltd declined a claim they made under their home 
insurance policy for a drainage problem.
Mr H has primarily dealt with things so, for simplicity, Ill refer to him only.
Reference to QIC includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
As the circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, Ill summarise whats happened.
Mr H noticed his kitchen sink wasnt draining and got in touch with a plumber. They 
found a problem with an underground pipe and said the kitchen floor would need to 
be excavated to put it right. He got in touch with QIC.
QIC appointed a surveyor, who inspected the problem. They said the damage was 
consistent with the circumstances described by Mr H, so a valid claim may be 
considered, and later commented on what had been damaged. But their report didnt 
offer an opinion about whether the claim was covered by the policy.
Mr H employed a builder, who said the kitchen drain was blocked, and the kitchen 
had suffered damp damage, due to a problem with the pipes. I understand Mr H paid 
to have the pipework put right and the floor re-laid. He says there remains damp 
damage in the kitchen, and that would cost significantly more to repair.
QIC appointed a drainage company, who said there was no evidence of accidental 
damage and that meant the claim was declined. It didnt inspect the problem or carry 
out any investigations of its own  it reviewed what Mr Hs builder had said.
Mr H complained. QIC said the damage to the pipe didnt meet the relevant policy 
definition. And the surveyor had found no evidence of water damage in the kitchen.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She agreed with QIC 
that the pipe problem didnt meet the policy definition and could fairly be declined. 
But she thought water damage had been identified to the kitchen. And she noted the 
policy covered the cost of trace and access and water damage to kitchen appliances, 
so QIC should cover the relevant costs of these things. She also asked QIC to pay 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
QIC didnt think this was a fair outcome. It said it had been unable to identify any 
water damage to the kitchen or the contents. Because it thought there was no 
evidence of escape of water damage, and the pipe damage wasnt covered, it said 
the policy wouldnt offer cover for trace and access in isolation.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the position reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
The policy covers a number of things. The relevant ones in this case are:
oDamage to the building caused by an escape of water and
oThe cost of removing parts of the building to find the source of the escape of 
water and
oAccidental damage to underground pipes and
oAccidental damage to contents.
oIn both cases, accidental damage is defined to mean sudden, unexpected 
and physical damage which happens at a specific time, was not deliberate 
and was caused by something external and identifiable.
Ill consider each separately.
Underground pipes
I understand Mr Hs point that the pipework damage was accidental in the broad 
sense  it wasnt expected or deliberate. But, based on what Mr Hs builder said, Im 
not satisfied the specific policy definition of accidental damage was met.
The pipes were described as cracked and fallen apart. Its not clear if that happened 
suddenly, at a specific time or as a result of something external and identifiable. They 
were deep underground and no particular cause of damage has been identified. So, 
on the balance of probabilities, I think they were likely to have gradually deteriorated.
I know QICs drainage contractor didnt inspect the problem for itself. But I think it 
was entitled to rely on the comments of Mr Hs builder, who had inspected it.
This means Im satisfied it was fair for QIC to decline the claim for the pipes.
Escape of water
Mr Hs builder was clear that the kitchen had been damaged by water escaping from 
the pipes. They described floor grout darkened with mould, a musty smell in the 
kitchen units, and said the base units and floor trims are not for fit for use due to the 
damp damage caused.
Mr H has also provided a video of the builder saying the flooring was soaking wet. 
And pictures hes provided show water damage in the kitchen.
QICs surveyor didnt offer an opinion about whether the claim was covered by the 
policy. But they did say the damage included base units, worktop and floor tiles.
So it seems clear to me that there was damage as a result of the escape of water. 
That means QIC should cover any damage caused in this way.Trace and access
The policy will also cover the cost, up to £10,000, of removing parts of the building to 
find the source of the escape of water. Here, there were clearly costs involved in 
removing parts of the kitchen and excavating the floor to find the leaking pipe.
This part of the policy doesnt depend on a claim for the pipe itself being successful  
its reliant on there being an escape of water, which there clearly was.
That means QIC should cover the costs, up to the limit, of trace and access.
Contents
Mr Hs builder said water damage had been caused to the dishwasher and cooker.
Im satisfied the damage to these items does meet the definition of accidental 
damage as set out in the policy. That means QIC should cover any damage caused 
in this way.
Compensation
Much of the claim was unfairly declined and, as a result, thats caused a delay 
settling it and carrying out further work to the kitchen. So I think Mr H has been 
caused some avoidable distress and inconvenience. Im satisfied £200 compensation 
is an appropriate remedy to that.
Next steps
Mr H should obtain a breakdown of the cost of the trace and access work only  as 
the cost of repairing the pipe itself isnt covered. QIC should pay that cost, up to the 
£10,000 policy limit. It should add interest to that payment.
If Mr H has paid anything to repair escape of water damage, that isnt part of the 
trace and access work, he should also obtain a breakdown of that cost. QIC should 
pay that cost, subject to the excess and any applicable policy limits, plus interest.
If any escape of water damage remains, QIC is entitled to consider how to settle that 
under the policy terms. Similarly, QIC is entitled to consider how to settle the 
contents damage under the policy terms. An excess and policy limits may apply.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Pay for trace and access and escape of water damage, as set out above.
Pay interest on this payment at 8% simple per year, from the date(s) Mr H paid for 
the work to the date of settlement*.
Accept the claims for any remaining escape of water and/or contents damage.
Pay £200 compensation*If QIC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman