DRN-1622100
The complaint
Mr Ds complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt handle his 
chargeback request properly.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr D bought a number of electrical items from a merchant I shall call M. 
He paid for them but then on 11 October contacted Nationwide in order to try and raise a 
dispute about the transaction. 
Mr D gave Nationwide a number of emails which included conversations hed had with M. 
These confirmed M had received back an iPad and issued a partial refund. On the 25 
October Nationwide asked Mr D for more evidence which he provided showing M had 
received a TV back and were issuing another partial refund. Nationwide had also said they 
then had enough evidence and would begin the dispute process with Visa after waiting 15 
days for the refund to be made.
Mr D had made several calls to Nationwide after the 25 October and had become frustrated. 
Nationwide said their operators were having difficulty understanding what Mr D was trying to 
claim for. Mr D also complains that when he had asked to speak to a supervisor his call 
wasnt returned for two days. 
On the 14 November Nationwide told Mr D again that they had enough evidence to start the 
dispute process, but then another operator from a different department called Mr D that day 
and told him he needed to send an email clarifying what he was disputing, what had been 
returned and the value of the goods.
Nationwide accepted they had given Mr D contradictory information but explained that they 
had required more information to give the dispute they were going to raise the best chance 
of success. But because of the poor service, they credited his account with £50 in 
compensation.
Mr D was unhappy with Nationwides final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that although there had 
been poor service, the amount of compensation Nationwide paid was enough to put things 
right. 
Mr D didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to clarify what a chargeback dispute actually is. Its a process by which 
some disputes are resolved between card issuer, in this case Nationwide, and merchants 
under the relevant card scheme rules. 
These rules are set by the card provider, whose symbol is on the card, which in this case is 
Visa. Visa has an agreement with banks as to how its cards are used, which covers when an 
attempt at a chargeback can be made, which of course if successful would result in the 
customer having the money they spent on the card returned. The rules are quite strict, and 
Nationwide doesn't have the power to change them. A further important consideration is that 
Nationwide isnt required to ask Visa for a transaction to be reversed and need only do so if 
it thinks its likely to succeed. 
So, it follows that a dispute will only be likely to succeed if there is sufficient evidence to 
support it. Here, Nationwide were asking from more evidence, but Mr D wasnt able to 
provide it. Mr D has explained he didnt have evidence of proof of return of the goods 
because the merchant had sent their own courier, and he hadnt supplied a covering email 
as requested because he thought it wasnt necessary.
I fully appreciate that Nationwide told Mr D on two occasions that they had enough evidence, 
but they corrected that mistake and asked for more explaining that they needed it to be able 
to understand the dispute properly. I accept that wouldve be annoying and frustrating for Mr 
D, but nevertheless Nationwide were entitled to ask for it. And as it wasnt provided I cant 
say Nationwide then acted unfairly in not beginning the dispute process.
Nationwide has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it compensated Mr 
D with £50. As Mr D didnt think that was enough to put matters right, Ive given this some 
further thought and considered the impact this has had on Mr D in the circumstances here. 
Having done so, I think what Nationwide paid is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
Nationwide has already paid Mr D £50 to settle this complaint, and I think that is fair and 
reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require Nationwide to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020. 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman