DRN-3107485
The complaint
Mr E complains that St Andrew's Insurance Plc (St Andrews) rejected a claim for damage to 
a laptop, cancelled his home insurance, and recorded a fraud indicator with a fraud 
prevention agency.
Mr E bought his policy through an insurance intermediary and most of his correspondence 
has been with this intermediary rather than directly with St Andrews. For the avoidance of 
doubt, any reference to St Andrews includes its agents, including the intermediary.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr E made a claim to St Andrews for damage to a laptop. He said hed 
knocked over a monitor which fell and landed on the laptop, which was lying upside down on 
the floor. He said a few days later the laptop battery exploded causing further damage.
St Andrews appointed a specialist company (referred to in this decision as D) to inspect the 
damage to the laptop. D concluded that the damage couldnt have been caused in the way 
Mr E described and appears to have been caused deliberately. Based on these findings, St 
Andrews declined the claim and cancelled Mr Es policy (backdated to July 2020). It also 
reported the matter to Cifas, a fraud prevention agency.
Mr E denied causing the damage and brought his complaint to this service. He also told us 
the fraud indicator on Cifas meant hes been denied insurance elsewhere. He wants St 
Andrews to settle his claim and remove the fraud indicator. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Es complaint should be upheld. He thought St 
Andrews had enough evidence to show that the damage hadnt happened the way Mr E 
described. His view was that St Andrews was able to decline the claim, cancel the policy for 
fraud, and report the matter to Cifas.
Mr E disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
St Andrews referred Mr E to the fraud condition in his policy. This says it wont pay a claim 
and will cancel a policy if a policyholder provides information or documentation to us that is 
fraudulent or dishonestly exaggerates a claim. St Andrews told Mr E the damage is not 
consistent with the incident described and that you have misrepresented the claim in an 
attempt to benefit from the policy. In other words, St Andrews believes Mr E made a 
fraudulent claim. 
Ive got to decide whether that was a reasonable conclusion. On balance, I think it was. Ill 
explain why.
St Andrews experts, D, inspected the damage. They didnt believe the damage they found 
could have been caused in the way Mr E described and the severity of the internal damage 
wasnt consistent with the damage to the external casing. In particular, D found that the 
motherboard has been hit with a sharp implement, both the memory module and SSD 
(solid-state drive) were broken in two pieces. It believed the casing would have had to have 
been removed for the level of damage to have happened.
Mr E challenged this, and submitted photos and a video to support his position. He says, in 
summary:
The monitor falling onto the laptop could have caused the impact damage identified 
by D.
His photos and video dont show indentations to the base of the laptop, described in 
Ds report.
The damage set out in the report was greater than when he gave the laptop to D for 
inspection. 
This damage could have been done by D, either in transit or accidentally by the 
engineer who inspected the laptop.
Im afraid I dont think Mr E has persuaded me that Ds conclusions are wrong. I dont think 
the photos and video conclusively show Ds description of multiple punctures to the base 
was wrong. 
In any case, Ds main conclusion was that the internal damage was so great that it couldnt 
have been caused unless the base had been removed. It noted that some of the internal 
damage  for example, to the heatsink and the SSD  didnt match the location of dents on 
the external casing. Also, D acknowledged that the battery fire was caused by lithium from 
the punctured battery reacting with the air. It said, The fire could have happened the next 
morning. But, according to Mr E, the fire happened several days later. That doesnt sound 
right.
I also think its unlikely D caused the damage. While I can accept that a laptop could 
potentially be damaged in transit, I dont think this could cause the internal damage 
described in Ds report. I also think its unlikely an engineer could have done this 
accidentally.
In the absence of any clear evidence persuading me that Ds findings are wrong, I dont think 
I can reasonably ask St Andrews to reverse its decision. In the circumstances, Im satisfied 
that its shown  to an appropriate standard of proof  that Mr E made a dishonest attempt to 
gain a benefit to which he isnt entitled under the policy. It follows that I dont think St 
Andrews acted unreasonably when it rejected the claim, cancelled the policy, and recorded 
the matter with Cifas.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman