DRN-2965885
The complaint
 Mr C complains his policy with ReAssure Limited fell in value when he cashed it in causing 
him a financial loss. 
What happened
 Mr C had a stakeholder pension policy with ReAssure Limited with a normal retirement date 
of 2029, when hed be 65. In March 2020 he was interested in accessing his pension. Hed 
consulted Pensionwise and then called ReAssure to say he wanted to cash the policy in. 
He was told hed get about £16,000 after tax. 
ReAssure said they had to send him an options pack which Mr C thought was unnecessary 
as hed already made his mind up about what he intended to do. By the time ReAssure 
received Mr Cs completed application the fund value had fallen by about £5,400 which is a 
lot of money to Mr C. So he complained and said he was considering legal action. 
ReAssure apologised and said because they hadnt told Mr C the value had fallen or given 
him the option to cancel theyd be happy to accept the funds back and make the policy 
active again. They also offered compensation of £250. Mr C didnt send the funds back and 
considered the compensation insulting, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She explained that to access 
his pension Mr C had to complete some essential paperwork, but hed missed one of the 
forms when it was returned to ReAssure so this caused a delay. In this period the fund value 
fell, due to market volatility caused by the pandemic. She thought ReAssure should have let 
Mr C know the value had dropped so significantly but the £250 it had offered was sufficient 
to make up for the loss of expectation. Mr C still thought ReAssure had acted unfairly. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in July 2021 as Id come to a different conclusion 
to the investigator. I didnt think ReAssure should honour the original valuation, but I 
awarded more redress. 
Provisional decision 
In the provisional decision I said: 
Mr C called ReAssure on 9 March 2020 and said he wanted to cash in his policy, 
which is known as taking an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum (or UFPLS). 
ReAssure sent Mr C a wake up pack the same day which quoted the current value 
of his pension savings at that time as £21,727.57. 
The pack contained the following warning This value isnt guaranteed. Your policy 
is revalued on a regular basis and can go down as well as up. 
The pack included another document setting out Mr Cs options and said ReAssure 
couldnt advise him what to do. It enclosed a leaflet from the Money Advice Trust and 
said he should consult Pensionwise and that he didnt have to take an option 
through ReAssure as he could shop around. The options pack listed the ways Mr C 
could take his benefits including taking the UFPLS, which is the option Mr C wanted. 
It explained 25% would be tax-free and if he wanted to go ahead he should call to 
find out what to do next. This pack also contained a warning about the value not 
being guaranteed and said the figures will be revalued when you take a retirement 
option. 
Mr C called ReAssure on 16 March 2020 and said he wanted to go ahead and take 
his whole pot as cash. When our investigator reviewed the complaint she relied on 
the note of that call which showed the value of Mr Cs policy on that date was 
£17,052.99, a fall of almost £4,700 in only a week. So she was under the impression 
Mr C was made aware in the call his policy had fallen in value but wanted to go 
ahead anyway. 
But I asked ReAssure for a copy of the call recording which I listened to. I could hear 
Mr C was very clear he wanted to take his benefits in cash and was annoyed the 
advisor wouldnt just implement the instructions hed already given in the first call on 
9 March. The advisor explained he had to go through some risk warnings to ensure 
Mr C understood the decision he was making. Mr C didnt see why this was 
necessary as hed made his mind up, hed already spoken to Pensionwise, he didnt 
want an annuity and he didnt need or want advice. The advisor apologised and said 
he should have been told taking retirement benefits was a two-stage process. He 
said the regulator the Financial Conduct Authority required them to highlight some of 
the risks associated with his choice, so he had to go through a number of questions 
and then hed send the relevant forms out to Mr C.
I then listed the six risk questions Mr C was asked to answer covering tax, health, income in 
retirement, benefits, debts and scams. Mr C confirmed the advisor had explained the risks to 
him and that he wanted to take his whole pot in cash. The advisor then explained the next 
steps and said he would send the forms out, which he emailed during the call. Mr C didnt 
understand why the forms couldnt have been sent to him after the first call, but the advisor 
explained the two-stage process for taking benefits. Mr C was told it would take up to 15 
working days to receive the funds once the forms were returned, but it could be sooner. 
I think the call was well handled given Mr Cs irritation at the process he was being 
required to follow. But Im satisfied that although the current policy value was 
recorded on the call note, it wasnt divulged to Mr C at any time during the call, nor 
was he told it was now different to the value quoted in the pack hed been sent only a 
week previously. 
Mr C completed the Pension lump sum application form, added his bank account 
details, ticked the boxes to say hed consulted Pensionwise and a financial advisor, 
and signed it on 16 March 2020.  On 18 March 2020 ReAssure called and wrote to 
Mr C to say theyd received his completed application form, but they were missing 
the completed form B declaration. The letter enclosed another copy plus a return 
envelope. The declaration confirmed Mr C wished to take his pension as a lump sum, 
he understood the risks and discharged ReAssure of any future liability in relation to 
the policy. Mr C signed this form on 19 March 2020. Hed been made aware it could 
take up to 15 working days to receive the funds.
ReAssure sent Mr C a closing statement dated 1 April 2020 showing his pension was 
closed on 20 March 2020 at a value of just over £16,332, even lower than the 
reduced value on 16 March, so he received just under £12,475 after tax. Mr C called 
ReAssure to query the amount he received, pointing out the value in the pack was 
over £21,727. ReAssure said they do call if the value had fallen more than 10% to 
give the customer the option to change their mind, but they hadnt in Mr Cs case. It was this failure to let Mr C know in advance which prompted ReAssure to offer 
compensation, but they said hed been told the value could change until the benefit 
option form was received and this didnt happen until 20 March 2020. Im satisfied 
this is the earliest date the transaction could have been finalised as Mr C didnt send 
both forms back on 16 March. 
I concluded ReAssure wasnt responsible for the fall in value or the delay due to Mr C not 
sending back both forms. But I said it should have let Mr C know on 16 March 2020 that his 
policy had fallen so much to give him the option to change his mind. ReAssure say they 
generally advise of a drop of more than 10% and Mr Cs policy had already fallen by more 
than 20%, and indeed continued to fall. Id asked Mr C what hed have done if during the call 
on 16 March 2020 the advisor had given him the revised value as the call note appeared to 
suggest. Mr C said hed probably have decided to wait, as he only used the money to pay off 
a few debts. 
So while I couldnt know for sure what Mr C would have done had he known his policy value 
had fallen so much, I thought it was likely hed still have cashed it in anyway. Hed explained 
hed been unable to work due to ill health, meaning his income had been substantially 
reduced, and the debt hed repaid was a tax bill which seemed like something which couldnt 
wait. And I thought hed be worried that if he delayed the policy would continue to fall due to 
the impact on stock markets of the pandemic. I said people with no immediate need for the 
money might have kept their nerve and waited for the market to recover, rather than 
crystallise the loss. But the timing of any recovery is uncertain so hes likely to have worried 
he might be worse off if he waited. And I thought it was significant Mr C didnt accept 
ReAssures offer to return the funds to be reinvested as if they hadnt been withdrawn. As 
ReAssure should advise of a fall of 10% and Mr Cs policy had dropped more than 20%, I 
didnt think its offer of £250 compensation was sufficient. So I said ReAssure should pay 
Mr C £500. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties responded to the provisional decision.  
Mr C said if hed been told how much his pension had fallen he wouldnt have gone ahead 
and cashed it in. Instead he wouldve cancelled the transaction and taken out a loan to pay a 
tax bill for his wife, who was panicking. He said even allowing for the interest a loan would 
have cost him less than hes lost.
ReAssure said they thought their offer of £250 was fair and valid redress and didnt think its 
mistake warranted as much as £500. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached. On the evidence 
Im not persuaded if Mr C had been given the updated valuation on 16 March 2020 its more 
likely than not hed have delayed accessing his pension and taken out a loan to pay his 
wifes tax bill instead. I say this because he chose not to accept ReAssures offer to reinvest 
the funds as if they hadnt been withdrawn. I dont know the amount of the tax bill or how 
urgent it was, although it was sufficient to cause Mr Cs wife to panic. But even if the loan 
interest might not be as expensive as the drop in Mr Cs policy, hed still need to secure a 
loan, which is not guaranteed given his circumstances. Plus hed have to be comfortable he could afford the loan repayments, even though he wasnt working. And hed have no way of 
knowing how long the market turmoil might last or how far it would fall. 
People who didnt need the money may have kept their nerve and waited for the recovery 
however long that took. But given Mr Cs circumstances, its likely he wouldve worried his 
pension might be worth even less when he finally came to access it. I think if taking out a 
loan instead of cashing in his pension was feasible and preferable for Mr C, then he would 
have accepted ReAssures offer which came only about a month later, and borrowed the 
funds to enable them to be returned. He may have had to ask ReAssure for some time to 
arrange the loan, but Mr C didnt do that in April. So I cant safely say thats what he would 
have done in March.
Ive said I dont hold ReAssure responsible for the fall in Mr Cs policy which was due to the 
pandemic, or the delay which was due to Mr C not returning the right paperwork. But 
ReAssure shouldve advised Mr C his pension had fallen by almost £4,700 or more than 
20% in just a week. ReAssure thinks it simply made an administrative error leading to a loss 
of expectation which is why it offered £250. But in terms of impact on Mr C I think it was 
more serious than that, given his circumstances. 
Putting things right
I accept ReAssures paperwork says the values arent guaranteed and the amount will be 
recalculated when Mr C decided on a retirement option. But I think Mr C had decided and 
thought hed already let ReAssure know, so wouldnt have expected a revaluation. The value 
was recorded on the 16 March 2020 call note which suggests the agent was aware of it, but 
it wasnt mentioned to Mr C at all, so hed no reason to think his policy would could change 
so much in a week. Mr C had worked out how much to expect based on the value in his 
pack, with 25% being tax-free and the remainder taxed. He only found out it was so much 
less when the funds were credited to his account, which must have been a shock given his 
financial situation, poor health and concerns around the pandemic. 
For this reason I feel ReAssures offer of £250 doesnt adequately reflect the impact on Mr C 
which is why I feel £500 would be fair.  
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited should pay Mr C £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman