DRN-3442718
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) declined to increase his overdraft 
limit and that this was reflected on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr D had a bank account with Barclays with an arranged overdraft facility of £10. Mr D 
applied to increase his limit to £500. Barclays declined the application and Mr D complained. 
Barclays says it declined the application as it didnt pass its internal application scoring 
criteria.
Mr D was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.  One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Ds concerns and reached the conclusion that Barclays hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Mr D is complaining that Barclays declined his application for an overdraft limit increase. He 
doesnt think they have considered all the evidence  specifically the statements from his 
main bank account which is held with a different provider. 
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
banking facilities Barclays is offering Mr D are fair and reasonable. Ultimately, what services 
a bank offers  including how much money it is willing to lend - is a commercial decision. 
Just like it is up to Mr D to decide whether to accept what Barclays is offering or to take his 
business elsewhere. And providing Barclays assessed Mr Ds application correctly against 
its lending criteria - it isnt something for me to get involved with. 
When Barclays assessed Mr D overdraft application it looked as how he managed his 
accounts with it, his income and expenditure, other lending as well as carrying out a credit 
check. I can see that at the time of the application Mr D held two other accounts with 
Barclays, one of which hadnt been used in the past year and the other which had overall 
more money going out than coming in. I can also see that Mr D held a credit card account 
with Barclays with a limit of £3,350. 
Although as Ive stated above who Barclays choses to lend to generally is a commercial 
decision and not something for me to get involved with - I dont think given the information 
above declining further lending sounds unreasonable. And overall a bank does have a duty 
to ensure that any lending it makes is affordable  and in this case Barclays have taken the 
decision not to lend further  a decision it is entitled to take. So I cant say Barclays have 
done anything wrong here.
Mr D is also unhappy that when Barclays carried out a credit check his application for credit 
was recorded on his credit file. But in order to assess whether it was willing to lend further I 
dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to carry out a credit check. And banks do have a 
duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference 
agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate  a necessity I think when using this 
information to decide on lending and whether it is affordable. So again, I cant say Barclays 
has done anything wrong and it follows that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman