DRN-2473722
The complaint
P- a limited company - is unhappy with the issues it faced in using their business account 
following an IT upgrade by TSB Bank plc in April 2018.
What happened
P holds a business account with TSB. In April 2018, TSB conducted an upgrade of its IT 
systems. This caused P to have difficulties accessing and using its business account. P 
estimates that its inability to use the business account resulted in approximately £4,000 of 
lost revenue, and it made a complaint to TSB on this basis.
TSB looked into Ps complaint. TSB recognised that the IT upgrade had had an impact on P, 
but TSB noted that they had given all of their customers advance warning that their systems 
would be impacted by the IT upgrade, and they didnt feel that P had provided sufficient 
evidence to confirm the financial losses it was claiming. 
So, while TSB did uphold Ps complaint, they didnt uphold Ps claim for a reimbursement of 
£4,000, but instead offered £300 to cover P for the distress and inconvenience it 
experienced as well as any financial losses the IT issue may have caused.
P wasnt satisfied with TSBs response and so referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators looked at this case, but they also didnt feel that the revenue losses that P was 
claiming could be confirmed, such that TSB should be asked to reimburse them. So they 
also didnt uphold Ps complaint.
P remained dissatisfied, and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that P feels very strongly about the effect that TSBs IT upgrade had on the use of 
their business account and the subsequent effects this had on their business. However, 
when considering whether to ask a business to reimburse a customer for financial loss, I 
need to be able to demonstrate to that business why they can be held responsible for such a 
reimbursement. In short, I need to be able to show how the losses that a company has 
suffered have occurred. Unfortunately, in this instance, Im unable to do so.
I understand that in many instances the nature of a business will be such that it is difficult to 
definitively quantify financial losses suffered - and it seems like this is the situation here. So, 
I can understand how P may be disappointed by the outcome of applying this reasoning in 
this situation - but I hope that P can understand why, as an independent and impartial 
service, it is a reasoning that we have to apply.
I note that both TSB and our investigator have requested evidence of the losses from P, but 
that P have been unable to provide this. Conversely, I also note that P has advised that the 
nature of their business and the nature of the financial loss  namely the loss of repeat work 
from previous clients  means that it is difficult to prove that such loss has occurred.
This is, as mentioned, understandable, but in the absence of any form of evidence to confirm 
the financial losses P has suffered, it wouldnt be fair for me to tell TSB it has to reimburse 
these, given that I cant confirm the amount of the losses or that TSB can be reasonably held 
responsible for them.
I must also note that there are other aspects to the circumstances that surround this case 
that make it difficult for me to consider upholding this complaint in Ps favour. For instance, 
the fact that TSB provided a warning to its customers that account access would be affected 
by the IT upgrade is not insignificant, although it is acknowledged that the issues that P has 
faced went beyond the timescale that TSB initially envisaged.
I also have conflicting testimony to consider with regard to the amount of contact the P had 
with TSB about this ongoing issue, with P maintaining that it sent several emails to TSB, 
while TSB have advised that they have no record of any additional contact beyond the filing 
of the initial complaint. I have no reason to doubt the testimony of either party, but I must 
note that it seems unusual to me that P would not have attempted to contact TSB via other 
channels, such as by telephone, if P were incurring ongoing substantial financial losses 
because of continuing issues with their business account.
All of which means that its difficult for me to definitively say that TSB have acted unfairly or 
inappropriately here, in a manner that would warrant my asking them to reimburse P for the 
financial losses that they have claimed. 
This leaves the question of whether, in the absence of TSB being asked to make the 
reimbursement that P has requested, they have responded reasonably to Ps complaint. 
I note that TSB have acknowledged that their complaint response wasnt issued within the 
timeframe they would have liked and have also acknowledged that the IT issues did cause P 
a greater level of problems than they initially anticipated. Considering this, I feel that the 
£300 offer of compensation that TSB has made to P is reasonable here, and so I wont be 
asking them to take any further action at this time.
I know that this wont be the response that P was hoping for, but I hope I have explained why 
the specific circumstances of this complaint meant that it was difficult for me to come to any 
conclusion other than to the one I have reached.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman