DRN-1600424
 
Complaint
Mrs Y complains that Lloyds Bank PLC plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a monthly premium 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Background
Mrs Y was sold a MPPI policy in 2000 during a meeting. The MPPI would have provided a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs Y was off work sick or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold and so didnt think Mrs Ys complaint 
should be upheld. Mrs Y disagreed with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ys case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ys complaint. I will now explain why. 
First of all Ive considered whether Mrs Y was eligible under the policy. Based on Mrs Ys 
age, employment and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied that Mrs Y was 
eligible under the policy at the time of the sale.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mrs Y that the MPPI was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to Mrs Ys account. Lloyds say they did this. Mrs Y says there was 
no mention of MPPI and that had it been discussed with her she wouldve refused it as she 
had no need for it due to her existing sick pay and savings.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what Mrs Y and 
Lloyds have told us and looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide 
what is more likely to have happened.
In particular, Ive been provided with a copy of the MPPI application form completed at the 
time of the sale. This was separate to the mortgage application form and I can see that Mrs 
Y signed this application form. She also appears to have completed as separate direct debit 
mandate for PPI.  
So while I appreciate what Mrs Y has told us, based on the evidence Ive seen it looks like 
Mrs Y would have known she was being sold PPI. And I think its more likely that PPI was 
presented as optional and only applied to the account because Mrs Y chose to take it out.Lloyds accept they advised Mrs Y to take MPPI. This means they had to check it was 
suitable for Mrs Y. I dont know if Lloyds took all the steps they should have to check if the 
MPPI was suitable for Mrs Y but I do think the policy was suitable for Mrs Y. I say this 
because:
 
Although Mrs Y has told us she was entitled to six months full pay followed by six 
months half pay, the PPI would have paid out in addition to this and could have been 
particularly useful when Mrs Ys sick pay reduced to half. It would also have paid out 
in addition to any redundancy pay Mrs Y may have been entitled to. I appreciate the 
evidence Mrs Y has provided regarding the unlikelihood of her being made redundant 
but this couldnt be guaranteed and the point of PPI would have been to provide 
cover if the unexpected were to happen.
 
Mrs Y has also told us she had savings at the time of the sale. However, there has 
been inconsistent information in relation to the amount of the savings Mrs Y held. 
And Mrs Y no longer has evidence of these savings. So I just dont know how much 
she had in savings. But its important to note that the existence of savings didnt 
necessarily make the PPI unsuitable. If Mrs Y had some savings, and if they were 
still available when Mrs Y needed them, these could have been used towards Mrs 
Ys other essential living expenses while the PPI took care of the mortgage 
repayments.
 
Mrs Y has also mentioned additional savings in a mortgage scheme. Again the 
information about this is unclear. On the one had I have been provided with 
information which suggests that these savings were easily accessible but on 
checking with Mrs Ys representative about how this scheme worked, it looks like 
these funds would have been freed once Mrs Ys mortgage had ended. So this 
didnt make the PPI unsuitable for Mrs Y as the point of PPI was to provide protection 
while her mortgage was ongoing.
 
Mrs Y doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the policy. 
 
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that the MPPI itself was unaffordable for Mrs 
Y at the time of the sale.
 
Mrs Y could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mrs Y, Lloyds also had to give her clear 
information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in 
the policy  so that she could make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs Y wasnt as clear as it should have been but 
this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put her off taking it out. And I dont think it would have. I say 
this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for her.So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mrs Y this MPPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ys complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman