DRN-3613340
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service provided by Marsh Finance Ltd when he settled a hire 
purchase agreement.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr C took a hire purchase agreement with Marsh over five years to acquire a 
used car. 
In March 2022 Mr C contacted Marsh and asked for a settlement figure for the agreement. 
He says he was given this over the phone. Later in the month Mr C says he spoke to Marsh 
again and asked what would happen to the settlement figure he was given, as at this point 
his monthly repayment had debited his account.
Mr C says he was told that either the most recent payment would be refunded to him, if the 
account was settled using the previous figure, or he could request a new figure to take the 
latest payment into account.
Mr C says he then sold the car and settled the finance. He says he was relying on the refund 
he had been expecting to use as a deposit on a new car. But, he says the payment was 
never refunded. 
Mr C complained to Marsh, who issued its final response in May 2022. This said, in 
summary, that Mr C had been given incorrect information over the phone. It said the 
settlement figure Mr C had been given had already taken the repayment from March 2022 
into account, so no refund was due. Marsh apologised for the error.
Mr C remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. He said he thought the 
payment from March 2022 should be refunded, and compensation given.
Our investigator issued her opinion. She explained, in summary, that she thought Marsh had 
given Mr C incorrect information when he called to query the settlement figure after Marchs 
payment had been made. She said Marsh should pay Mr C £50 to reflect this.
Mr C was unhappy with this. He said, in summary, that hed been financially impacted by 
what happened. He said it would be fair to get the refund of the monthly amount he was 
expecting.
Our investigator said she didnt think this was reasonable, as the funds in question had been 
taken into account when providing the settlement figure. 
Mr C remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C complains about the administration of a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I 
can consider Mr Cs complaint about Marsh.
It isnt in dispute here that Marsh gave Mr C incorrect information over the phone and all 
parties accept this. So, I dont think I need to comment further here. Instead, I need to 
consider what would be fair and reasonable to put things right, given what happened.
Mr C was told he was due a refund of a monthly payment. The crux of the matter here is 
whether he should get this back or not.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think he should. I say this as Mr C wasnt due 
this refund  despite being told he was. The funds had been applied to the agreement and 
had been taken into account when providing Mr C a settlement figure. Had this not been the 
case, Mr C wouldve presumably had to pay a higher settlement figure than he was quoted  
so I cant see hes lost out here as he says.
That being said, I do think it must have caused Mr C some upset to realise he wasnt due a 
refund when hed been told he was. And I appreciate it must have been frustrating to realise 
he didnt have these funds to put towards a new agreement as hed planned.
What I need to consider is what is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr C by him being given incorrect information about the account. 
Having thought about everything that happened, I think the £50 our investigator 
recommended fairly reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Marsh Finance Ltd to pay Mr C 
£50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman