DRN-4088565
The complaint
Mr B complained about the service provided by Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) 
during the process of arranging an ISA transfer to a third party. He said HSDL was 
responsible for a delay during the transfer which had caused him a great deal of worry and 
resulted in financial loss. 
To put things right Mr B wants financial compensation in line with investment loss suffered 
as a result of the transfer to his new provider taking an unreasonable length of time to 
complete, as well as redress in recognition of the emotional distress and worry he suffered 
as a result. 
What happened
Mr B held a stocks and shares ISA with HSDL. The following timeline of events briefly 
summarises what happened:
20 May 2021 - Mr Bs new provider sent his completed transfer request to HSDL to start the 
ISA transfer process which required HSDL to encash his existing investments and transfer 
the cash value to his new financial provider. 
22 June 2021 - Mr Bs financial adviser phoned HSDL to chase up the transfer. It became 
apparent that Mr Bs new provider had not sent the transfer request to the correct address. 
Arrangements were made to resubmit the transfer request paperwork. 
23 June 2021 - HSDL received the ISA transfer request.
22 July 2021 - HSDL logged the request. 
3 August 2021  HSDL instructed assets to be sold.
4 August 2021 - Mr Bs assets were sold.
9 August 2021  payments settled.
12 August 2021  the proceeds were transferred to his new provider. 
13 August 2021  Mr Bs new provider processed the proceeds and applied these to fund 
investments. 
HSDL partly upheld Mr Bs complaint about the way it had handled his transfer request. It 
said it wasnt responsible for the delay prior to 23 June but agreed that HSDL had caused a 
month long delay in logging the transfer request and offered to pay Mr B £50 redress for the 
distress and inconvenience this caused him. It said however that there were no significant 
delays after that and it didnt agree it was responsible for any investment loss. 
Mr B didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She thought that HSDL needed to do 
more to put things right and recommended it should also reimburse Mr B for any loss caused 
by the delay, on top of the £50 already offered. She passed on information from Mr Bs new 
provider showing how the transfer from HSDL had been applied. 
Mr B agreed with the investigator but HSDL disagreed. It mainly said (in summary) that this 
wasnt a straightforward cash ISA transfer  investments had to be sold during the transfer 
process and it didnt agree that the 30 days HMRC timescale should be taken into account 
when HSDL was facing delays due to the Covid pandemic and it had explained to clients 
that transfers could take up to 12 weeks. It also mentioned that Mr B could have sold the 
investment at any point prior to HSDL selling on 3 August. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
A key part of Mr Bs complaint concerns the length of time it took to complete his transfer 
request. 
Like the investigator, I think it's fair for HSDL to say it wasnt responsible for what 
happened prior to 23 June 2021. Mr B hasnt objected to this finding, so I assume he is in 
agreement also. And HSDL has already upheld Mr Bs complaint about the month long 
delay after it received his transfer request so I dont feel theres any need for me to say 
more about this.
But Mr B was entitled to expect HSDL to handle his transfer request within a reasonable 
timescale once it received it. In coming to my decision, I've taken into account that:
HSDL has acknowledged that it missed email chasers from Mr Bs new provider  
this meant Mr B had no knowledge about what was happening and, potentially, that 
opportunities to move the transfer along might have been missed.
Although HSDL told its customers that transfer requests were taking up to 
12 weeks to complete and from Mr Bs transfer being logged to completion this 
took 22 working days, this doesnt change my overall view. The industry standard 
for transfers of this type (which didnt change during the pandemic) indicates the 
matter should have been completed within 30 calendar days  so around 22 July 
2021. HSDL took around 3 weeks longer than this.I find, on balance, that:
its not disputed that HSDL could and should have done more to action Mr Bs 
transfer request on a more timely basis and, 
but for HSDLs admitted delay, Mr B would have been in a position to invest on 
22 July 2021 in the way that he did when the transfer-in to his new provider 
completed on 12 August 2021.
Whilst Mr B could have sold the investment at any time, doing this ahead of HSDL 
selling on 3 August 2021 would have likely interrupted the transfer process he had 
already set in motion and added further overall delay. So I dont consider this 
mitigates HSDLs responsibility for any investment loss arising due to the transfer 
not happening as quickly as it should have done and the effect this had on Mr Bs 
ability to reinvest the proceeds as quickly as he had hoped to do.
So I agree with the investigator that to put Mr B into the position that he would have been 
in, had the transfer completed as it should have done, HSDL should reimburse Mr B for 
any resulting loss. 
I've also thought carefully about the emotional distress and worry Mr B told us he 
experienced. I can understand why this was such an anxious time for him  there was a 
significant amount of money at stake and he was actively hoping to re-invest just as 
quickly as he could  which he did immediately he was in a position to do so.    
On balance, I think the £50 offered for this is insufficient. I consider that £100 is fair 
compensation to reflect the impact on Mr B of the delays and shortcomings in the service 
HSDL provided to him on this occasion.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr B has confirmed he has nothing further to add. 
I have heard nothing further from HSDL and the deadline for responses has now passed, so 
I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr B for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision.Putting things right
To put Mr B into the position he would have been in had HSDL completed the transfer on 
22 July 2021, it should:
compare the current value of Mr Bs holding (or otherwise, the value of any 
respective units when sold) (Ill call this value A) with the current notional value of 
his holding had HSDL completed the sale of his units on 22 July 2021 and on 
23 July 2021 Mr B had applied the entirety of the sale proceeds towards 
purchasing units in the investments (and in the same proportions) that he applied 
to buy on 13 August 2021 (Ill call this B). 
If B is greater than A (in other words, Mr Bs investment is worth less than it would 
have been had HSDL completed the transfer when it should have done on 22 July) 
then HSDL should pay the difference to Mr B to reimburse him.
HSDL should set out the figures it relies on and its calculations in a clearly 
understandable way so that Mr B can see how the amounts have been worked out.  
Pay Mr B £100 in total to reflect the stress and anxiety HSDL caused him. So, to be 
clear, if HSDL has already paid the £50 offered previously this can be offset against 
this amount.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Halifax Share Dealing Limited to pay Mr B as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman