DRN-2109702
The complaint
Mr O complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited (Erudio) made errors during the deferral 
process on his student loan account which resulted in the account entering a position of 
default.
What happened
Mr O has three student loans dating back to the late 1990s. Erudio purchased the loans from 
the original lender in 2014. They are combined under one account. 
The rules relating to this style of loan allowed Mr O to defer repayment every 12 months in 
the event his annual income was under a certain threshold. 
In April 2014 Erudio wrote to Mr O explaining that repayment of his loans was due to start at 
the end of his current deferment period on 27 May 2014. The letter said that if Mr O wanted 
to defer repayment of the loan for another 12 months, he would need to return a deferment 
application form to show he was eligible to do this.
Mr O says he must have completed and returned the form as he always returned 
correspondence when he was asked to. Erudio says it never received the form and didnt 
hear from Mr O until a few years after this  despite its efforts to contact him.
No payments were made on the account between 2014 and 2016. In 2016 Erudio sent Mr O 
a default notice explaining that if he didnt pay the arrears on the account it would enter a 
position of default and the whole balance of the loans would become due. Payment was not 
received so the account was defaulted.
Mr O says he moved address in September 2015 so didnt get all of the letters Erudio sent 
him and didnt know his account had been defaulted. He says he made Erudio aware he was 
moving. Mr O undertook a university course in 2019. He says hes been unable to get 
funding for the course because of the problems with the Erudio account and this has 
jeopardised his qualification.  
When Mr O contacted Erudio in 2019 it made a number of administrative errors (which it has 
admitted to) including, misplacing Mr Os income and expenditure form, giving him an 
incorrect email address to correspond with and setting up a direct debit for him for 
repayments of an agreed repayment plan when this wasnt in fact possible. In its response to 
Mr Os complaint Erudio offered him compensation of £150 for these errors. But it didnt 
accept it had made an error defaulting Mr Os account. It said Mr O never deferred 
repayment of the loans after 2014 so they became repayable from then onwards and no 
payments were received.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Os complaint should be upheld. She said she thought Erudio 
had sent the deferment application to Mr O in April 2014 and reminders that his account was 
in arrears and she was satisfied it had no record of any communication from Mr O about the 
deferment after this. So, she didnt think it had unfairly defaulted Mr Os account in 2016. 
She thought the compensation Erudio offered Mr O for the errors it made in 2019 was 
reasonable. 
Mr O disagreed with the investigator. He said in summary:
Erudio has not proved he never returned the deferment application form. 
He always returns important financial correspondence when required and there 
would have been nothing for him to gain by not completing and returning the 
application.
Given Erudio made such a mess of dealing with him in 2019, its most likely it made 
similar errors in 2014 and either didnt write to him or lost his deferment application 
form. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O was required to apply for deferment annually in order to delay the repayment of his 
loans. Having seen records of Mr Os account history from the original lender, Mr O was not 
making payments for the vast majority of the time, yet arrears were not accruing. So, it 
seems most likely to me that Mr O must have deferred his loans a number of times before 
Erudio purchased his account.  
Mr O says he was of the understanding that his loans were in a continual state of deferment. 
Ive not seen anything from Erudio or the original lender that leads me think Mr O was 
specifically told this. But it is possible the process for applying for deferment was different 
under the previous lender. 
However even if this was the case, I think Erudio made Mr O aware that he needed to apply 
for deferment in 2014. Erudio sent Mr O a deferment reminder and application paperwork in 
April 2014 and Mr O has provided a copy of this letter to us so theres no doubt he received 
it.  The letter clearly states that the first monthly repayment on the account was due at the 
end of the current deferment period on 27 May 2014 and that Mr O would need to complete 
and return an application form if he wanted to defer repayment for another 12 months. 
Ive seen copies of the original terms that would most likely have been applicable when Mr O 
took out his loans. These say that if he wished to defer repayment of his loan, the relevant 
administrator needed to be satisfied he was eligible to do so every 12 months. So, even if 
the application that Erudio asked Mr O to complete was different to what he was used to, 
Erudio was still permitted to require Mr O to complete one so it could be satisfied he was 
eligible to defer. 
Mr O says he always returns correspondence so his application must have been lost by 
Erudio. I do not doubt what Mr O says about having nothing to gain by ignoring Erudios 
letter.  But Ive seen Erudios internal system notes and there is no record of it receiving the 
deferment application form from Mr O. I recognise that Erudio made errors when dealing 
with Mr O in 2019 including losing written correspondence hed sent them. But I dont think 
this makes it more likely than not that it lost Mr Os application in 2014. One series of errors 
in 2019 doesnt necessarily mean that similar errors would be made five years earlier. 
However even in the event Mr O did send the deferment application form and Erudio lost it, 
Erudio wrote to Mr O on at least four separate occasions after this to notify him that his 
account was in arrears. If Mr O thought he had sent his deferment application, I think its likely he would have got in touch with Erudio to query why he was receiving arrears letters. 
Mr O has said he thought he was in a position of deferment so I think he should reasonably 
have been aware that something wasnt right with his account.
Mr O says Erudio must not have sent any of these letters. Ive seen copies of the letters 
Erudio said it would have sent. They are dated in July and September 2014, and January 
and March 2015 and are all correctly addressed to the same address Mr O says he lived at 
until September 2015  and where hed previously received letters from Erudio. I find it 
unlikely none of the four letters would have reached him. 
Mr O says he made Erudio aware that he changed address. Erudio says he didnt. There is 
no record on Erudios contact notes of Mr O doing this. I think on balance if Mr O had called 
or written in to change his address then Erudio would have a record of this because its 
contact notes for Mr O look fairly comprehensive  for example there are records and notes 
of numerous telephone calls Mr O made to it in 2019 which is when he began contacting 
Erudio about is complaint. I think its most likely Mr O didnt notify Erudio of his new address 
in September 2015. 
So, while Mr O didnt receive the letter Erudio sent him in 2016 explaining that it was about 
to default his account, I dont think Erudio was at fault for this because it wouldnt have been 
aware that Mr O had changed his address. 
Overall, I dont think Erudio unreasonably or unfairly defaulted Mr Os account. It didnt 
receive a deferment application form in 2014, made Mr O aware the account had entered a 
position of arrears, and tried to contact him at his last known address when the account was 
about to default. So, I dont think it needs to re-instate Mr Os account or return his loans to a 
position of deferment. However, Erudio must ensure it treats Mr O with due consideration 
and forbearance in respect of the outstanding balance and reach a reasonable repayment 
arrangement with him.   
When Mr O got in touch with Erudio in 2019 it handled things poorly. But I think the 
compensation it has paid Mr O is fair for the distress and inconvenience its errors are likely 
to have caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman