Page 1 of 3The complaint
This complaint is about Mr Ls mortgage with Santander UK Plc. Hes unhappy that when he 
took a new interest rate product, it wasnt made clear to him that the 10% overpayment 
allowance wasnt refreshed at the same time.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr L and Santander. Im also aware 
that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr L being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, rounding 
any figures, and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
Mr L has a mortgage with Santander. He took it on a five-year fixed interest rate that meant 
an early repayment charge (ERC) was chargeable if the mortgage was paid off (in full or in 
part) within a specified period. However, the terms of the mortgage also allow for 10% of the 
outstanding balance to be repaid each calendar year without an ERC being applied. 
Santander also allows an ERC-free overpayment to made at the same time as switching to a 
new product.
Mr L had already used his 10% overpayment allowance for 2021 when, in February, he 
arranged a new fixed rate product over the phone to replace the five-year product that was 
nearing its end. Mr L thought the new product came with a new overpayment allowance, 
which he intended using to pay £5,000 off the balance before the end of 2021. He 
subsequently complained when it became apparent the allowance applied to calendar years 
and was not refreshed when he took the new product. 
Santander rejected the complaint so Mr L brought it to us. Our investigator didnt think 
Santander had done anything wrong. Mr L asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
DRN-3337524Page 2 of 3Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my conclusions, and the reasons for them are as follows.
Firstly, Im satisfied from looking at the underlying mortgage contract that the 10% 
overpayment allowance is an annual provision that refreshes on the first day of January 
each year. Secondly, Im satisfied that Santanders staff routinely referred to the allowance in 
phone conversations as being calendar-year related and informed Mr L that he could still 
make overpayments on the new product but only if he hadnt already used his 2021 
allowance. 
It wasnt up to Santanders staff to check if Mr L had done that, although I note that in one 
conversation, the call handler did check and told Mr L he had already used up his 2021 
allowance.
Santanders transaction records show that Mr L started 2021 with an outstanding balance of 
just under £72,000. The transaction records also confirm that Mr L made an overpayment of 
£4,000 in January 2021 and another for a little under £3,200 in February 2021. So Mr L 
clearly had already used up his 2021 allowance in full before changing products.
A third overpayment, for £10,000, was made in early March 2021. As it had been intended 
for this to coincide with the product transfer, Santander refunded the ERC the overpayment 
would otherwise have attracted. Its this latter payment that Mr L says hed have increased to 
£15,000 if hed known the true position.
Mr L maintains that he was misled in that when discussing the allowance, Santander should 
have made it clear that the terms of the new loan were affected by the terms of the previous 
loan. But there was no reason for Santander to make such a distinction, not least because it 
doesnt exist. There is no previous or new loan; Mr L has the same loan he took at the 
outset. 
The only thing that changed in 2021 was the interest rate product that sits on top of the 
underlying mortgage contract. Whilst the 10% allowance is referenced in the product switch 
offer, it is, as I said a moment ago, a provision in the underlying mortgage contract. Its 
specific to the calendar year, not the individual product. If Mr L understood otherwise, that 
wasnt because Santander told him something different on the phone from what is in the 
mortgage contract. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.Page 3 of 3Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman