DRN-3326338
The complaint
Mr A complains that IG Markets Limited (IG) allowed him to trade Contracts for Difference 
(CFDs) without him demonstrating he had the knowledge and experience to understand the 
risks involved. Mr A lost £3,000 and hed like to be compensated.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr A applied to open a CFD trading account with IG. In order to do so, 
Mr A needed to provide IG with information about his knowledge and experience. The 
application form showed that Mr A had no relevant professional experience, nor any trading 
experience in either CFDs or other investments. He had income of between £100,000 and 
£500,000 and savings of between £5,000 and £25,000. 
IG also required Mr A to complete a series of multiple-choice questions designed to test his 
knowledge of CFD trading. Mr A passed the test by getting only two out of ten answers 
wrong. 
As a result, IG was satisfied that Mr A had sufficient knowledge to understand the risks of 
CFD trading, and therefore allowed him to open an account. Mr A was provided with a link to 
IGs terms and conditions of trading, as well as a Risk Disclosure Notice which, broadly 
speaking, highlighted the high risk of capital loss associated with CFD trading  among other 
important information. 
Mr A opened his account and began trading in early March 2020 and then traded only one 
stock until 23 April 2020. During that time he deposited £3,000  and whilst some of his 
positions made a profit, overall his entire deposit was lost. So Mr A complained. 
In his complaint to IG, he said that he had lost £3,000 and this was a massive amount of 
money for him. He explained that he was new to CFDs and didnt get adequate guidance 
from IG, and so he lost his money very quickly. He said that any kind of guidance from IG 
wouldve helped a novice trader like him. He asked IG to refund him the money. 
IG declined to do so on the basis that his losses were trading losses, and it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. So he referred his complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2022. In short, I said:
IG was entitled to rely on Mr As knowledge of CFDs, in the absence of experience, 
to establish whether trading CFDs was appropriate for him. 
Overall, I considered that the questions which IG asked Mr A were sufficient to 
establish that he had sufficient knowledge to understand the significant risks involved 
in trading CFDs. I was satisfied that COBS10A didnt require Mr A to know everything 
about CFDs, or for IG to be satisfied hed be successful  IG simply needed to satisfy 
itself that Mr A had enough to knowledge to understand the specific risks involved. 
Based on the answers Mr A gave to IGs assessment, I was satisfied it was 
reasonable for IG to have concluded that the account would be appropriate for him. 
In the alternative, I also concluded that even if trading CFDs wasnt appropriate for 
him, I wasnt persuaded that a warning wouldve dissuaded Mr A from investing. I 
considered he wouldve gone ahead regardless. 
IG agreed with my provisional decision but Mr A did not. He said that he thought IG ought to 
have coached or advised him at the time while he was trading. He thought that, in 
additional some educational guidance, IG should have at least checked or warned on the 
implications of trading. Mr A thought that this reluctance by IG to warn him was due to it 
making money off his trading. Mr A said that he thought interests of small traders [like 
himself] should also be considered and safeguarded with thorough guidance in order to 
avoid significant financial impact on the consumer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been minded to change my provisional conclusions. 
I fully acknowledge the points Mr A makes, and I can understand his disappointment. But I 
think its important to state that Mr A could, at any point, have decided that trading CFDs 
wasnt for him. I note that it took some months for him to begin trading after his account was 
opened. 
And whilst Mr A suggests that he didnt receive sufficient warnings, Im not inclined to agree. 
In my view Mr A had ample opportunities, both before and after his application, to read a 
number of warnings from IG about the significant risks of trading CFDs. From the terms and 
conditions, to the banners on IGs website, including a banner explaining how many of its 
customers lose money trading CFDs, Im satisfied Mr A was given enough warning about the 
likelihood that he would lose money if he traded. 
What IG wasnt responsible for was coaching or educating Mr A while he was trading. There 
are no rules that required IG to do this. It was for Mr A to decide whether he had enough 
confidence to trade, or whether he needed more time. IG does have a lot of educational 
information on its website that Mr A couldve used, as well as the opportunity of trading on a 
demo account. Of course, no matter how much information IG provided on its site, none of it 
would guarantee Mr As trades or success at trading CFDs  it remained a risky type of 
trading on which the majority of retail consumers lose money. 
For these reasons, whilst I fully acknowledge that impact the matter has had on Mr A and his 
strength of feeling on what he believes was IGs failure to properly coach or advise, Im 
satisfied IG hasnt done anything wrong. In my view it was fair and reasonable for it to have 
concluded that Mr A had sufficient knowledge to understand the risks of trading CFDs, and 
as a result, there was nothing wrong with IG allowing Mr A to open his account and begin 
trading. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Alessandro PulzoneOmbudsman