DRN-4517089
The complaint
Mr D and Mrs D complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc refuses to refund the money they lost to 
multiple investment scams. 
As Mrs D had the dealings with the scammers, for ease of reading, Ill refer to her alone in 
this decision. 
What happened
Background
The detailed background is well known by both parties, so Ill only summarise key events 
here. 
Mrs D was interested in investing in cryptocurrency. Around April 2022, she came across a 
friends social media post showing her investment success with a company Ill call C. As 
Mrs D was in the process of selling her business, she replied that she was interested.  Mrs D 
doesnt recall how she and the friend became acquainted on social media but when they 
discussed the investment with C, she was extremely personable and friendly. The friend also 
provided Mrs D with access to a group chat so that any questions she had would be 
answered. This gave Mrs D the impression that C would act in her best interests.
Mrs D was guided by Cs representative to open a cryptocurrency exchange account with a 
company Ill call S. Mrs D funded her initial investment with a payment via another one of 
her banking providers (Bank B) and after seeing some profits, she decided to invest more 
via her HSBC debit card  linked to her current account. From 11 April 2022 to 18 April 2022 
Mrs D invested approximately £5,902 from her HSBC account along with further funds from 
her Bank B account. Mrs D was successfully able to withdraw £2,060 to her Bank B account 
and so she invested a further £10,000 via her HSBC account. Following this payment, Mrs 
Ds investment started to decline, she contacted Cs representative however her trading 
account access was blocked. Mrs D realised that shed fallen victim to a scam. 
Around June 2022, Mrs D was contacted by an individual claiming to have been scammed 
by C. This individual introduced Mrs D to a scam group chat with others sharing how they 
could regain their losses. Mrs D began investing with a different company Ill call F. She 
initially invested funds via her Bank B account. Fs account manager pressured Mrs D to 
invest further funds and so Mrs D paid £16,000 from her HSBC account to fund her 
investment with F. After some back and forth with Fs account manager wanting Mrs D to 
invest further funds and Mrs D wanting to withdraw  she came to the realisation that shed 
been scammed again. 
Mrs D contacted HSBC in July 2022 to try to recover her money but it said it couldnt assist. 
Around August 2022 Mrs D was contacted on social media by an individual claiming to be a 
victim of F. He claimed hed gotten his money back using a private investigator. Mrs D 
contacted the private investigator via email and was added to a social media group chat with 
others that had lost money to F. The private investigator advised Mrs D that he located the 
scammer, he also explained shed have to open a numbered account in the first instance. 
Mrs D carried out some checks and decided to pay £3,500 to open her account. Before 
paying this money, Mrs D sent a tester payment to her cryptocurrency exchange account 
with S to ensure she could withdraw it. 
Mrs D was told by the private investigator that she needed to pay tax to access her 
investment, so she sent two final payments of £25,000 on 22 August 2022 and £17,500 on 
27 September 2022. Following Mrs Ds final payment, she lost contact with the private 
investigator and realised shed fallen victim to another scam. 
Mrs D contacted a third party to assist her with claiming her money back from HSBC and 
Bank B. In total, Mrs D disputes 10 payments totalling £82,103 that she sent via faster 
payment from her HSBC account to her S account from 9 April 2022 to 27 September 2022. 
She deducted the amounts she was able to withdraw of £26,124.41 which leaves a total loss 
balance of £55,978.59, which she believes HSBC are liable for. 
HSBC issued its final response stating that Mrs D sent payments to her own cryptocurrency 
exchange account and so she should approach them for further assistance. Unhappy with 
HSBCs response, Mrs D referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators didnt think HSBC were responsible for Mrs Ds loss. He felt the 
payment of £16,000 on 22 June 2022 ought to have prompted an intervention from HSBC 
based on her previous account history. However, he didnt think an intervention would have 
made a difference based on evidence of an early intervention made by HSBC not dissuading 
her from investing. He also considered that a later intervention by Bank B  which led to 
police involvement didnt dissuade her either. 
Mrs D didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to consider the complaint. She said in 
summary:
She was only looking at transactions up to Bank Bs involvement which led to police 
involvement, not after, which she accepts were her responsibility. 
She doesnt recall HSBCs early intervention and warning.
She doesnt agree she could have found that the private investigator was a fraudster 
as there was no adverse information about him.
Paying £5,000 to open a numbered account seemed reasonable and she checked 
the bank was reputable.
At the point she paid £42,000 tax to access a £70,000 investment, she was shown 
she had access to an account (which she didnt know was fraudulent) which 
contained €718,500  so the payment she made sounded reasonable. 
Had she been in the UK when the scam with the private investigator was occurring, 
she would have been in a better position to do a lot more investigating but couldnt as 
access to her internet abroad was limited.
When she was scammed by F, she was going to pay another £16,000 into the 
account but she spoke to someone in the UK who had a look into the company and 
told her not to. Had she been able to contact that person again (if she were in the UK 
at the time) things would have been different. 
On 28 November 2023, I issued a provisional decision not upholding Mr D and Mrs Ds 
complaint. For completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I dont intend to uphold this complaint for much of the same reasons as that 
of our investigator but I do think there were additional points HSBC could have intervened. 
Albeit I dont think these further interventions would have likely made a difference. Before I 
explain why, I want to make it clear that I believe Mrs D is the victim in what I consider to be 
cruel multi-layered scams. But being the victim of a scam, doesnt automatically entitle Mrs D 
to a refund. 
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice. 
Theres no dispute from either party that Mrs D was the victim of multiple scams. The 
evidence before me also indicates that Mrs D was the victim of a multi-layered investment 
scam. Having concluded that these were scams rather than just bad bargains I must now 
go on to consider three more issues in order to determine the outcome of the complaint:
1. Were any of the payments Mrs D made out of character and unusual and should 
HSBC have intervened before processing them?
2. If so, would HSBCs intervention have made a difference and prevented or reduced 
the loss?
3. And if so, should Mrs D bear some responsibility for the loss such that it would be fair 
and reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately.
Were any of the payments out of character and unusual and should HSBC have intervened 
before processing them?
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mrs D for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mrs D using the legitimate security credentials provided to her 
by HSBC. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mrs D was the 
victim of a scam. So, although she did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the 
Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her account, Mrs D is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive noted that when Mrs D set up her cryptocurrency exchange account with S as a new 
payee, HSBC say Mrs D would have seen a warning around investment fraud. Ive seen a copy of the warning and I dont think it covered the scenario that Mrs D found herself in, 
particularly as it was introduced to her by someone she believed to be a friend. Bank B also 
say it provided Mrs D with a warning early on into the scam over the telephone. Ive not been 
provided with this call, so I cant say with any certainty how meaningful the warning was. 
I therefore dont think that HSBC provided a meaningful warning in the way it describes but I 
also dont think Mrs Ds initial payments to S were all that unusual to have warranted an 
intervention by HSBC. 
I dont think HSBC could have reasonably known that Mrs D was investing with C, this is 
because all the payments out of her account were sent to S  a legitimate company. And 
HSBC would have reasonably been aware that she was paying an account in her name with 
a legitimate company. 
Ive also seen that Mrs D commonly made ad-hoc payments of £1,500 to £2,500 to accounts 
in her name. She also sent a £10,000 payment to an account in her name in December 
2021. Because of this, I dont think any of the payments prior to 22 June 2022 ought to have 
warranted an intervention by HSBC. This is because the payments were broadly in keeping 
with Mrs Ds normal account activity and werent all that unusual or uncharacteristic when 
compared to Mrs Ds usual spend. 
I agree with our investigator that the payment of £16,000 of 22 June 2022 was unusual when 
compared to Mrs Ds normal account spend. I cant see that shes sent payments of this 
magnitude when considering her normal account activity from April 2021. 
I am satisfied HSBC ought fairly and reasonably to have intervened by calling Mrs D to ask 
some questions about the nature and purpose of the payment Ive highlighted before 
agreeing to process it. 
Would HSBCs intervention have made a difference and prevented Mrs Ds loss?
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mrs D would have explained what she was doing and that the purpose of the 
payment was to invest. Ive seen that in conversations with HSBC and with Bank B that Mrs 
D was honest about her decision to invest these funds. Shed also been honest in 
subsequent conversations with both banks about being scammed, so I think shed have 
likely explained shed lost money via a scam and was investing with F to try to recover her 
funds. 
In such circumstances, whilst HSBC had no duty to protect her from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice, it should have asked Mrs D some further questions to ascertain whether 
she was likely to be at risk of financial harm from fraud (in light of the previous scam). Ive 
thought carefully about the sorts of questions HSBC shouldve asked, bearing in mind the 
features of investment scams at that time  particularly crypto scams. 
I think HSBC could likely have asked how Mrs D came across the investment, whether a 
third party was assisting her, whether shed been able to withdraw any funds and whether 
shed carried out any research. At the time of Mrs Ds payment, investment scams carried 
common features. For example, these included rates of return which were too good to be 
true, receiving the opportunity to invest via an unsolicited offer and/or cold call (this could be 
contact via social media) and fraudsters applying pressure to their victims to invest quickly.
Against this backdrop Id have expected HSBC to ascertain whether there were any signs 
that this was an investment scam (as described above). Had it done so in June 2022 (when 
Mrs D invested a payment of £16,000 with the intention of paying those funds to F), I think 
Mrs D would have explained that one of her friends suggested via social media that this was a good investment opportunity to recover funds shed previously lost to a scam. I think HSBC 
would have likely been concerned that Mrs D was likely the victim of another scam and 
ought to have explained the various risks of crypto trading and that C could have difficulties 
withdrawing her profits and may lose them entirely. 
But I cannot ignore that Mrs D was given a meaningful warning by Bank B in September 
2022 and she was specifically told shed fallen victim to a scam. Bank B also called the 
police who advised Mrs D that she was the victim of a scam but this didnt stop her from 
sending further payments to the scammer. I do take Mrs Ds point that by the time this 
warning was given, shed already invested significant sums and was trying her best to 
recover her losses. But I also have to consider that at the point I think a warning should have 
been given to Mrs D by HSBC, she acknowledges shed been scammed in relation to her 
investment with C. But she proceeded to invest with F, despite it being offered to her in very 
similar circumstances as the C investment was offered (via social media). And Mrs D says 
she was advised by someone in the UK not to invest with F, she says she didnt but then 
she also paid substantial further funds to an individual purporting to be a private investigator 
that contacted her in a very similar manner as C and F. 
Overall, I dont think a lack of intervention made a difference to Mrs Ds loss and ultimately 
she was able to withdraw these funds (and more) the following day.
On 7 July 2022, Mrs D called HSBC to assist her with recovering her losses up until that 
point. Having listened to the call, Mrs D is clear that all of the payments she made to S to 
fund her various investments were all scams. Mrs D didnt seem unsure about this. And 
whilst HSBC explained it couldnt assist her in recovering her payments, she was aware that 
all the payments shed made up until this point were made as the result of a scam. However, 
HSBC said during the call that even though it couldnt help her, it would keep a record of Mrs 
Ds report. And so, when she sent a further substantial payment of £25,000 to S on 22 
August 2022, I think HSBC ought to have intervened and spoken with Mrs D. 
Had this conversation taken place, HSBC were already on notice that Mrs D had fallen victim 
to investment scams via payments to S. And so, I think it would have likely concluded that 
this further payment was being made as the result of another scam. But for much of the 
same reasons, I dont think a further intervention and warning would have made a difference. 
Mrs D explains that someone told her that F was a scam and she listened to this individual 
but its unclear why she says she couldnt speak with them again to take further advice.  
Ive taken account of the fact that Mrs D says she was abroad at the time and would have 
had time to reflect whilst her account was frozen until she returned. But I agree with our 
investigator that I dont think this would have deterred Mrs D from investing. I think Mrs D 
was so bought into this multi-layered scam and had already lost a substantial sum of money 
that she was willing to believe that someone could help her. 
I think by the point Mrs D met the private investigator, shed already lost substantial sums to 
scams and was doing all she could to recover her losses. Mrs D was already aware that 
shed lost substantial sums to scams, so I dont think HSBC bringing to her attention that she 
was likely losing more money to scams would have dissuaded her from investing further 
funds. I cant ignore that Bank B did provide meaningful warnings to Mrs D in September 
2022  these included police involvement which didnt stop Mrs D from sending further 
payments to the private investigator. So, I dont think its likely that an intervention from 
HSBC at the point of her payment of £25,000 in August 2022 would have dissuaded her 
from investing. Even if it would have given her the opportunity to pause and think about her 
decision, I think she would have paid anyway. Not least because several months after her 
final disputed payment, she sent a further payment to the scam. I recognise it was low value 
but nevertheless, after Mrs D complained that the bank didnt do enough to prevent her loss 
from these scams, she still sent money to the scammer. In other words, I am satisfied those earlier warnings from HSBC probably would have made 
no difference to Mrs D. Any failings by HSBC were not the dominant, effective cause of her 
losses; they were just part of the background history or occasion that led up to them.
In light of my conclusions above on whether a warning would have made a difference, it is 
unnecessary for me to go on to consider whether Mrs D herself was partly to blame for what 
happened (contributory negligence). Indeed, I have already concluded that she was 
responsible for her own investment decisions, and that such choices were the proximate 
cause of her losses.
But I want to be clear that I understand Mrs D fell victim to a very sophisticated scam. She is 
not to blame for this; the cruel scammers are to blame.
Recovery
Ive thought about whether HSBC did what it ought to have done to recover Mrs Ds 
payments. 
Mrs D transferred funds to an account in her name and control with S. From there, she 
purchased crypto and moved it onto a wallet address of her choosing (albeit upon the 
scammers instructions). So I cant say that HSBC could have likely recovered her losses  
even if it acted promptly when she reported the scam in July 2022. HSBCs only option to 
recover Mrs Ds payments would have been to recover them from S but by the time she 
reported the scam, shed already moved her money from S to the scammers. And even if 
she hadnt, shed have had access to the funds in her S account as they were in her control. 
So, I dont think there was any reasonable prospect of success had HSBC tried to recover 
Mrs Ds losses. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
HSBC responded to my provisional decision and confirmed it had nothing to add. 
Mrs D didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything further to add, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision (which forms part of this final decision). 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mrs Ds loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman