DRN-3037324
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the costs Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) paid in 
respect of the third party claim under his car insurance policy.
All reference to the insurer LV in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Mr R was involved in an incident with another vehicle in February 2021. Mr R doesnt dispute 
the recording of the claim. But hes unhappy with the amount of the third party costs LV paid. 
In particular, that LV paid a total loss settlement for the third partys vehicle as it wasnt 
economical to repair it. 
LV didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint, It said it was satisfied that having reviewed the engineers 
report, its decision was correct. 
Mr R remained unhappy and so he asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator didnt 
recommend Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She thought LV had dealt with the claim 
reasonably and in line with the policy terms. 
Mr R didnt agree. In his opinion the damage to the third partys vehicle was minor. So as he 
doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it. 
Mr Rs policy with LV has a very common term which says LV can take over the defence and 
settlement of a claim in Mr Rs name. This means that LV can make a decision Mr R doesnt 
agree with, but the policy allows it to do so. 
We dont disagree with this term in principle, provided the insurer can show it treated its 
customer fairly when applying it. 
Ive looked at the engineers report assessing the damage to the third partys vehicle. The 
estimated costs to repair it were more than its value. And LV referred the report to its in 
house engineer who agreed with the report findings. 
I understand Mr R doesnt believe the damage should have resulted in the car being a total 
loss. He says his car suffered minor damage  so he finds it ridiculous that the third party 
vehicle was written off. But I think LV has provided sufficient evidence to show that it 
reasonably investigated the claim and its decision to settle the third partys vehicle claim 
costs as a total loss was fair. Just because one car in a collision suffered minor damage, 
doesnt mean the other car of a different build, value, age and model - will therefore suffer 
the same degree of impact damage. 
I realise Mr R will be disappointed with my decision. But I think LV treated him fairly and 
dealt with the claim reasonably and in line with the policy. So I dont think it needs to do any 
more. 
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman