DRN-3886050
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains about the way Santander carried out Know 
Your Customer (KYC) activity.
Mr B complains on Rs behalf.
What happened
Santander told us:
It is required to carry out KYC checks periodically in order to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. To do so, it will sometimes need to request further information 
from its existing customers.
The terms and conditions of Rs bank account said that the account could be 
suspended if R did not provide the information the bank required.
It identified that it did not have sufficient information about R and the individuals 
associated with it, and asked for further information. It later changed its process, with 
the result that it no longer required Source of Wealth information for R  but it still 
needed other information to complete its KYC requirements.
R did not provide the information the bank needed, and so it placed a block on Rs 
account in early November 2021. The block was removed around two weeks later 
after Rs representatives attached information to the banks KYC portal.
Overall, it considers that it did nothing wrong in carrying out the KYC review, or in 
asking the questions it did. However, it acknowledges that it is responsible for some 
avoidable delays. It could have told Mr B earlier that it had changed its mind over the 
Source of Wealth information, and it could have responded earlier to his request 
that it review all of his communications. It initially offered to pay R £200 in 
compensation for those delays, then later increased its offer to £300.
Mr B told us:
He accepts that Santander is entitled to carry out a KYC process, but the way it 
carried out that process was unreasonable. There are many things it could have 
done to make the process run more smoothly  for example, one of its local 
managers (who knew him) could have called him and asked for a meeting, and the 
matter could have been resolved very quickly.
He also accepts that he did not fully engage with all of the banks attempts at contact 
(the emails and telephone calls that it refers to as outreach). But that was because 
they were unsolicited, the emails contained mistakes, and the calls were from people 
he didnt know  so could very easily have been a scam. His previous experiences 
have made him extremely wary of attempts to acquire his personal data. He tried to 
ask Santander whether the contact attempts were legitimate, but he did not receive a 
response. 
He considers that Santander used him as a guinea pig, sending him a 
questionnaire which it has since withdrawn from use. If Santander was beta testing a 
new process, it should not have also threated draconian reactions such as freezing 
Rs account  particularly when the problems were of Santanders own making.
Santander made many mistakes, including (but not limited to) confusing his home 
address with his company, and using donotreply email addresses for a very serious 
matter.
Overall, Santanders offer of £300 is nowhere near sufficient. The entire process took 
around 125 hours of his time. He considers that perhaps as many as 25 hours would 
have been reasonable, but the other 100 were not. If Santander were to pay £300 for 
100 hours of wasted time, that works out at below minimum wage  which cannot be 
right.
Apart from the KYC process itself, R also suffered the inconvenience of having to 
having to open a new bank account with another provider. Its director was 
embarrassed at having his debit card refused, which caused reputational damage 
because R appeared not to have sufficient funds to trade.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but did not uphold it. Briefly, he said:
Santander is required to carry out KYC checks. It has considerable discretion as to 
exactly how it carries those checks out, and as to precisely what questions it asks. It 
is entitled to change its process  for example, it is entitled to decide it no longer 
needs Source of Wealth information. The change does not mean Santander was 
wrong to request information in the past. 
Santander didnt do anything wrong in deciding to carry out the KYC checks, and so 
it shouldnt have to pay compensation for any resulting inconvenience. But it did 
cause some unnecessary delays. The amount of £300 is fair compensation for those 
delays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr B, but having done so there is very little I can add to what 
our investigator has already said. 
I fully accept that the KYC process was inconvenient for both R and Mr B. I consider that 
Santanders compliance with its regulatory obligations will inevitably cause some 
inconvenience to some of its customers. But that doesnt mean Santander has done 
anything wrong, or that it should have to pay compensation.
I recognise that Santander changed its mind during the KYC process, in particular as to 
whether it required R to provide evidence as to the source of its wealth, but I agree with our 
investigator that it was entitled to make that change. I dont think it would be right for me to 
award any compensation for inconvenience suffered as a result.I also acknowledge that Santander could have carried out its KYC process differently. Mr B 
is right to say that Santander could have arranged for a member of staff known to him to 
make an initial phone call. But Santander wasnt required to do that. It is not part of my role 
as an ombudsman to dictate to Santander precisely how it should meet its KYC obligations.
It is understandable that Mr B was worried about fraud, particularly in light of his previous 
experiences. It is unfortunate that some of the emails he received that were genuinely from 
Santander contained spelling mistakes and/or what Mr B describes as hieroglyphics (such 
as apostrophes being replaced by apparently random characters). I can see why, as he puts 
it, his Scam Alert radar was well up. Santander also failed to reply to Mr Bs questions 
about whether certain emails were scams. But he was still able to (and did) contact 
Santander about the KYC process, and so I dont think Santanders errors prevented him 
from providing Santander with the information it needed.
Mr B ultimately decided to move away from Santander, and opened an account for R with an 
alternative provider. Whilst I can see why he made that choice, I dont think Santander was 
responsible for it  and so I dont think it would be fair for me to order Santander to pay 
compensation to R for the inconvenience of moving provider.
Putting things right
Santander accepts that it made some errors here: it delayed telling Mr B about the change in 
its process; and it did not respond to some of his concerns as quickly or as comprehensively 
as it could have done. But I dont think either of those issues made a material difference to 
how quickly the KYC process was completed, and so I dont think they contributed to the 
blocking of Rs account. I am satisfied that R did not suffer financial loss or reputational 
damage as a result of Santanders errors.
Overall, I consider that Santanders offer to pay £300 to compensate R for the inconvenience 
caused by its errors is fair and reasonable. I stress that that offer is not intended to 
compensate R for all the inconvenience suffered as a result of the KYC process  only for 
the inconvenience suffered as a direct result of Santanders errors.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plcs offer to pay R £300 is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint. I do not require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman