DRN-3758959
The complaint
The estate of Mr D has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has not paid the 
benefit on a whole of life assurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise the estate of Mr D, represented by Mr D2, will be disappointed by my decision 
but I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Aviva is now responsible, although the policy was taken out in 1962 with a different 
life assurer. Aviva has managed to locate other policies that Mr D held, but it has 
found nothing for the policy which is the subject of this complaint. Im satisfied that 
Aviva has acted fairly by carrying out a trace using Mr Ds details.
I note that the estate doesnt believe that Aviva has done all it can to locate the 
policy, but I dont agree. If the policy was still in existence, Im satisfied it is more 
likely than not that Aviva would have been able to locate it. The fact that it has not 
been able to do so may be because the policy lapsed or cancelled before Aviva took 
over the administration of these policies.
I recognise that the estate has the original policy document which the late Mr D 
stored at his bank. Unfortunately, this doesnt explain what happened to the policy in 
the years after it was incepted. Premiums were payable for 48 years from 1962. I 
quite understand why the estate isnt able to show by reference to Mr Ds bank 
statements that the premiums were paid. However this means there is no evidence 
before me that premiums were paid or for how long. 
Although the estate believes that there is a failure on the part of Aviva, it is not 
obliged to keep records indefinitely. Further enquiry with Aviva has confirmed that 
due to that age of the policies taken out with providers before Aviva took over, no 
data is now held or available.
In all the circumstances I cant say on the evidence before me what happened to the 
policy. But Im satisfied that Aviva has done what it can to locate it. In the 
circumstances I dont find it has done anything wrong or that it is obliged to make any 
payment to the estate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman