DRN-2166012
The complaint
Ms C complains that Santander UK Plc has unfairly declined her application to remove her 
ex-partner from her mortgage. And she is unhappy that Santander has failed to allow her to 
move to a fixed interest rate without her ex-partners consent. She wants the mortgage to be 
put into her sole name, to be allowed to take a new fixed interest rate product and to be paid 
compensation for the extra money she has paid over the last five years.
What happened
Ms C and her ex-partner took out a mortgage with Santander in 2008 on an interest only 
basis. They subsequently separated and got divorced in 2015. The divorce order provided 
that the property should be transferred into Ms Cs sole name, but that her ex partner would 
hold a 30% charge over the property. Ms Cs ex-partner remained a party to the mortgage.
Ms C applied for a new interest rate product in August 2016. But her ex-partner contested 
the rate change and it was therefore cancelled.
In 2018 Ms C paid her ex-partner a lump sum payment and had the 30% charge removed. 
At that time the ex-partner told Santander that he no longer had any interest in the property 
and wanted to be removed from the mortgage.
In April 2019 Ms C applied for a new fixed rate product. But this was again cancelled at her 
ex-partners request.
Ms C then applied to remove her ex-partner from the mortgage. But Santander didnt agree 
the application.
Ms C complained to Santander. But Santander didnt uphold her complaint, and so Ms C 
referred it to this service.
Our investigator didnt think that Santander had treated Ms C fairly. He said, in summary:
Change of borrower
He was satisfied that both Ms C and her ex-partner wanted the mortgage to be 
transferred into Ms Cs sole name. He was also satisfied that the mortgage had been 
paid solely by Ms C for around five years. 
MCOB 11.7.1 says that Santander doesnt need to carry out an affordability 
assessment if the proposed transaction is in Ms C and her ex-partners best 
interests. And he felt that it was clearly in both parties best interests for Santander to 
approve the application. So he didnt think that Santander should use its affordability 
criteria to decline the application;
Santander had said that it had declined the application due to unsatisfactory 
information from a credit referencing agency. But he felt that Santander should have 
considered its overarching responsibility to take account of Ms Cs best interests. 
Unless Santander could point out any genuine concerns with Ms Cs credit file that 
could impact her ability to pay her mortgage he felt it would be fair to transfer it into 
her sole name;
Interest rate products
Ms C had applied for new interest rate products in August 2016 and April 2019, but 
both rates were cancelled at her ex-partners request;
Santander had explained that its policy was that changes must be agreed or 
instructed by all the borrowers. But he felt that Santander had followed Ms Cs ex-
partners request without considering both parties best interests. This had made 
Ms Cs financial situation worse and allowed her ex partner to exercise financial 
control over Ms C on a repayment which didnt really concern him. 
To resolve this part of the complaint he recommended that Santander should rework 
the mortgage account as if Ms C had the fixed rate product she took out in August 
2016 for the duration of the product, and then the rate she took out in April 2019 for 
the duration of that product.
He also recommended that Santander should pay Ms C £500 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused to her for both aspects of her complaint.
Santander didnt agree with our investigators view. It said it wouldnt have been reasonable 
for it to apply a rate which would feature an early repayment charge and therefore a penalty 
unless both parties agreed. But it offered to look at allowing the mortgage account to be 
converted with effect from April 2019 to its new reversion rate which did not feature any 
booking fees or early repayment charges and which would reduce the current contractual 
monthly instalment. And it said that it would consider a fresh application from Ms C to move 
forward with a change of borrower.
Our investigator responded to Santander. He said that Ms C had agreed that shed like to 
complete a new change of borrower application, and he asked Santander to get in touch with 
her directly. But he wasnt persuaded to change his view in relation to the interest rate 
products.
As agreement has not been reached the complaint has been referred to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same decision as our investigator, and for much the same 
reasons. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Change of borrower
Santander originally declined Ms Cs application to transfer the mortgage into her sole name. 
In response to our investigators view it offered to consider a fresh application but, having 
checked with Ms C, I understand it has not been in touch with her since our investigators 
view was issued. 
As our investigator explained, MCOB 11.7.1 means that Santander doesnt need to carry out 
an affordability assessment if the proposed transaction is in Ms C and her ex-partners best 
interests.
I agree with our investigator that it would clearly be in Ms Cs best interests to have the 
mortgage in her sole name. This would allow her to make decisions about the mortgage 
without her ex-partners agreement. She is the only one living at the property, and she holds 
the sole title to the property. Im persuaded it would also be in Ms Cs ex-partners interests to have the mortgage taken 
out of his name. In particular, this would mean that he would be more likely to be able to get 
a mortgage on another property. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that Ms C has been paying the mortgage by 
herself since she and her ex-partner divorced. And, as shes been paying the standard 
variable rate, Im satisfied she will be able to afford the lower interest rate products offered 
by Santander.
Interest rate products
Ms C applied for new interest rate products in August 2016 and April 2019. On both 
occasions the rate was cancelled at her ex partners request.
Santander says that its policy requires changes to be agreed or instructed by all the 
borrowers. And, although I appreciate why it has this policy, I agree with our investigator that 
it didnt take account of the impact on Ms C when it cancelled the rates, and it didnt act in 
both parties best interests by doing so.
Santander says that it wouldnt be fair for it to allow Ms C to take out a product with an early 
repayment charge without her ex-partners consent. But, as our investigator explained, 
Ms Cs ex-partner isnt named on the title deeds and will no longer receive anything on the 
sale of the property. In addition, I agree that while Ms Cs ex-partner is jointly and severally 
liable under the mortgage deeds it is unlikely there would be a shortfall if the property was 
repossessed given the current loan to value. And Ms C is the borrower living in the property 
and making the monthly payments. 
In some circumstances, I agree with Santander that it wouldnt be appropriate to put in place 
a change to the mortgage that might incur a charge without all partys consent. But Ive not 
seen any evidence to show that Santander thought about this at the time. It seems that once 
Ms Cs ex-partner requested the rate was cancelled, they acted on his instruction, without 
doing any investigation into why it could be a problem if the interest rate was put in place. I 
agree with our investigator that Santander failed to consider Ms Cs best interests when 
cancelling the new rates. This allowed Ms Cs ex-partner to exercise financial control over 
her on repayments that didnt really concern him. And left Ms C with higher monthly 
payments as a result.
Putting things right
To resolve Ms Cs complaint relating to the change of borrower Santander should re-
consider Ms Cs change of borrower application and should approve the application unless 
there are clear and specific reasons from looking at her credit file that it should be declined.
To resolve Ms Cs complaint relating to the interest rate products I require Santander to 
rework the mortgage account as if Ms C had the fixed rate product she took out in August 
2016 for the duration of that product, and then the rate she took out in April 2019. Once 
Santander has calculated the balance of the overpayments Ms C would have made as a 
result of paying the standard variable rate instead of the fixed rate, it is for Ms C to decide 
whether she would like to use this amount to reduce the mortgage balance, or be refunded 
directly to her. If Ms C chooses to receive this refund in cash, Santander should also 
calculate 8% simple interest per year* on the overpayments from the date each payment 
was made, until the date settlement is made, and pay this to Ms C. I also agree that Santander should pay Ms C £500 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to her for both aspects of her complaint.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Santander UK Plc considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms C how 
much its taken off. It should also give Ms C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to:
Reconsider Ms Cs mortgage application and approve the application unless there 
are clear and specific reasons from looking at her credit file why it should be 
declined;
Rework her mortgage account as set out above, giving Ms C the option to use the 
balance of overpayments to reduce the mortgage amount or to be refunded direct to 
her;
Pay Ms C £500 compensation for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman