DRN-3758486
The complaint
Mrs P complains to Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) about an Investment Bond taken out in 
1999.
Mrs P is represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC) in bringing her complaint. 
For ease, Ill refer to all actions as being those of Mrs P.
What happened
Mrs P invested £12,000 into a unit linked bond in 1999. She received a cash withdrawal of 
£50 a month until the bond was surrendered in full in 2016 with Mrs P receiving £9,992.47.
In 2021, Mrs P complained to Zurich that the recommended make-up of funds invested 
wasnt suited to someone without investment experience. She said the fund was heavily 
weighted in equities and property, and as a medium to long term proposition it didnt suit 
someone aged 20 at the time.
Zurich said the advice given had initially been to Mrs Ps mother, so they were unable to fully 
establish the details that took place in respect of Mrs Ps attitude to risk and her objective for 
the investment.
Because of this, Zurich said they were unable to support the sale of the bond however by 
calculating if Mrs P had put her money into a savings account paying the Bank of England 
rate + 1% instead, after accounting for withdrawals they said she was financially better off, 
so they didnt propose taking any further action.
Mrs P remained unsatisfied, so she referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
One of our investigators looked into things and said the original fact find had been completed 
by Mrs Ps mother however the policy had been taken out by Mrs P herself so there was little 
information available to determine her attitude to risk at the time. Our Investigator said there 
wasnt enough to say the investment had been mis-sold, but she could see Mrs P hadnt 
been financially disadvantaged so didnt think Zurich needed to do anything.
Mrs P said it was unacceptable for Zurich to have sold her an investment without giving her 
advice as the money was intended for her. She also said she and her mother had met with 
Zurichs advisor to discuss their financial planning, not to discuss building society rates, so 
she didnt think assuming those rates was the fairest resolution to her case.
As Mrs P disagreed, her case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its important to say there is limited information available relating to the sale of the 
bond to Mrs P which is unsurprising as it was taken out some 22 years ago and surrendered 
some six years ago. We do have some point of sale documentation however I consider it 
reasonable that not everything might be available from the time. 
In the absence of further records from the time of advice, the information Mrs P has provided 
as part of their complaint submission and what I do have available from the time is evidence 
Ive considered to help build a picture of their circumstances. 
I recognise its possible I may not be able to fully establish the events leading to Mrs P taking 
out the bond - but Im also conscious that over twenty years have passed since then. 
Ultimately, I need to reach a decision on the balance of probabilities  and this is what Ive 
done using all of the information provided by both parties to the complaint.
Mrs P acknowledges she and her mother met with Zurichs advisor in 1999 to discuss 
financial planning. A fact-find, completed with Mrs Ps mother at the time, indicates a regular 
savings plan taken out to save for Mrs P had matured and that her mother wanted to invest 
the money for the benefit of Mrs P with life cover and withdrawal facility.
Mrs P proceeded to take out a unit linked investment bond for £12,000 and on balance Im 
satisfied the funds were, more likely than not, from the savings her mother had built up for 
her.
There is no available record of a fact-find being completed with Mrs P at the time, but that 
doesnt necessarily mean the investment was unsuitable for her. 
Mrs P was aged 20 at the time of the bond being taken out and doesnt think a medium to 
long term proposition suited her circumstances. She also says she had no investment 
experience and the make-up of the funds invested was not a balanced risk profile.
But as Ive mentioned above, Mrs P says she and her mother met to discuss their financial 
planning with Zurichs advisor, not to discuss building society savings rates so on balance I 
consider it more likely than not that she was prepared to take some level of risk with the 
money being invested.
I cant be certain what Mrs Ps attitude to risk was as the time however, I can see the fact-
find completed with her mother indicated it was important for the investment chosen to have 
a withdrawal facility. 
The bond ran for 16 years prior to being surrendered in full, with Mrs P receiving a monthly 
cash withdrawal of £50 so Im not persuaded the bond was unsuitable for her circumstances.
Also, Im satisfied the funds invested were gifted to Mrs P and more likely than not meant for 
continued investment. Ive seen nothing to suggest she needed shorter term access to them, 
and theres not enough evidence for me to say, on balance, the bond was unsuitable for   
Mrs P circumstances at the time.
Zurich have said Mrs P actually made a gain as a result of investing in the bond as opposed 
to retaining the money in a building society account. Im aware Mrs P disagrees this is the 
fairest comparison to make and should I have decided the sale of the bond was unsuitable 
for her Id be minded to agree.
But its important to say that isnt the decision Ive reached, and the comparison used by 
Zurich isnt the reason for me not upholding this complaint. Taking into consideration all the 
circumstances, on the balance of probabilities, there simply isnt enough for me to say the 
bond taken out by Mrs P was unsuitable.In summary, even though I cant see a fact find looking solely at Mrs Ps circumstances, Im 
satisfied, based on the available evidence, that the recommended investment was suitable 
and met her requirements.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Zurich Assurance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman