DRN-4111952
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as D has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly voided its policy and declined its property insurance claim.
Mr B, a director of D, has brought the complaint on Ds behalf through a representative. For 
ease of reading, I will refer to D throughout.
What happened
D held a Business Combined insurance policy with RSA. In December 2021, Ds premises 
were burgled which resulted in D claiming for its losses on its policy. D said its losses were 
just under £80,000.
RSA said that on 4 January 2022, D emailed a loss list for its claim detailing 66 items. D 
supported this loss list with receipts, invoices and a stock inventory. A video call to discuss 
the theft took place on 22 March 2022. The loss list was discussed and statement was 
drawn up from the call. This was sent to D with a request to confirm the accuracy of the 
information. D provided email confirmation of the accuracy of the list on 25 March 2022.
RSA initially accepted Ds claim and made an offer to settle the claim for just under £50,000 
due to D being underinsured. However, an allegation was made which suggested that Mr B 
was involved in the burglary. This was shown to be from a disgruntled ex-employee who    
Mr B reported to the police for harassment. But RSA said it wanted to carry out a more in 
depth analysis of the theft.
RSA obtained CCTV footage from the burglary and on 21 April 2022 told D that the footage 
indicated that, based on the weight of the items and the size of the bag used to steal them, 
the amount D had claimed was not feasible.
RSA appointed a forensic scientist, which Ill refer to as C, to look into the claim. C attended 
Ds premises to measure and weigh items. D agreed that the claim did not appear to be 
accurate and provided RSA with a new loss list setting out losses of just under £65,000. D 
said that some of the items on the original list had been sold and shipped but this had not 
been initially apparent due to how the orders were shown on the system. The overall number 
of items which D listed as stolen reduced from 66 to 58. The number of larger and medium 
sized items claimed for reduced but the number of smaller sized items increased.
RSA said that D had exaggerated its loss and it did not believe that it was an innocent 
oversight. Therefore, it voided Ds policy from 4 January 2021 under Part 4 of the Insurance 
Act 2015 (the Act), which was the date the original loss list was provided. This meant RSA 
refused to pay Ds claim and said it reserved the rights to pursue D for £4,378.92 which was 
the cost of Cs investigation.
D complained to RSA. It said the claim value was difficult to assess and at that time the 
inventory was a mess and Mr B wasnt in control of it.
RSA said D had submitted documentation in support of the items that it originally said had 
been stolen and had confirmed that the amount was correct on more than one occasion. 
RSA said that as the owner, Mr B was solely responsible for knowing the stock levels and it 
did not believe that D did not know what had been stolen.
Unhappy with RSAs response, D brought its complaint to our service. It said there were 
minor inconsistencies in the value of the claim submitted which was due to an innocent 
mistake at a very stressful time. D said that its accounts executive had recently left and it 
had instructed another business, who I will refer to as N, to carry out tasks relating to the 
inventory and there was a period of teething problems during the transition. D said it had 
not realised that when an item showed on the system as pending it had actually been 
shipped.
D said it had worked with C to reassess the amount claimed once it brought its attention to 
the discrepancies but, prior to this, D had no reason to consider that the amount might not 
be correct. D said it was unreasonable for RSA to suggest that Mr B was solely responsible 
for knowing the correct stock levels.
D explained the significant impact the claim has had on Mr B personally. D asked that RSA 
pay the £50,000 it had previously offered, remove its details from any fraud databases and 
not seek to recover the amounts paid out in investigating the claim.
Our Investigator looked into Ds complaint and recommended it be upheld. He didnt think 
RSA had shown that the claim was most likely exaggerated. To put things right he 
suggested that RSA reinstate Ds policy and reconsider its claim. It said RSA should remove 
D from any fraud databases and provide a letter to say that the policy had been voided in 
error. He also said that RSA should be responsible for the costs of the investigation.
D accepted our Investigators view and explained the impact of RSAs decision, such as not 
being able to get insurance elsewhere.
RSA did not agree and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. In summary it said:
If it was required to pay the claim it would be on the basis of the reduced claim value 
rather than the original calculation.
D confirmed on three occasions that the amount claimed was accurate and provided 
invoices/receipts for the stolen items.
D informed C that: Mr B was not familiar with the stock recording system; the 
information on the system was incomplete and difficult to locate as it had been 
incorrectly recorded by ex-employees; some items had been sold and shipped but 
the transactions had been listed as pending at the time the theft was reported and 
this led D to believe some additional items had been stolen when they had been sold.
The number of larger items had reduced from 48 to 34. Medium sized items reduced 
from 11 to 10. Smaller items increased from 7 to 14. Overall, the number of items 
claimed for reduced from 66 to 58.
It did not think the amount/volume of items on the revised list would have fitted into 
the bag and been pulled along the ground by the thief with the ease shown in the 
CCTV footage. It does not think that a bag which carried 120kg of items would 
bounce with such ease.
D should have taken steps to ensure the accuracy of the claim being submitted even 
if the accounts were done by N.D said that items showed as pending until they had been approved. However, its 
earlier statement indicated that the system was updated on a daily basis.
CCTV footage indicates that the bag was only half full. The volume of the items on 
the revised list would be more than the volume of the half full bag.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 April 2023 explaining why I did not 
intend to uphold it. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not for me to decide whether D submitted a fraudulent claim. Instead, I have to decide 
whether RSA made a decision which was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.
Under [Part] 4 of the Act an insurer is entitled to void a policy from the date of a fraudulent 
act. If an insured makes a fraudulent claim an insurer does not need to pay that claim. When 
deciding whether it is fair and reasonable for an insurer to decline a claim for a fraudulent act 
I also consider whether any false information given is material. This is because it has been 
established in case law that if false information provided is not material to a claim then the 
insurer cant decline the claim. If a claim amount was deliberately exaggerated that would be 
considered material to the claim as the insured would be trying to get a benefit they werent 
entitled to.
Ive started by considering the information D provided in support of its claim. This included 
an inventory list, a loss list and receipts and invoices to support its claim for the stolen items. 
D also explained how orders were processed. Within its statement taken in March 2022 D 
explained that N loads the inventory on a daily basis and if there is a purchase on the 
website the details are sent to the inventory system.
Ive also considered Ds reasons for how it claimed the wrong amount. D provided the 
following explanation from N about the system it uses: If a sale/customer order remains in 
draft it wont be taken out of stock. When the website takes an order it will automatically 
send to zero but it will remain in draft until approved. When approved it will take out of the 
inventory stock levels.
D said that when making the claim it would have used the figures that were showing in stock 
as it had not previously been made aware of how the system handles stock. D also said that 
there had been teething problems with N and the amount originally claimed was an 
innocent mistake.
Having carefully thought about Ds explanation of how it claimed for the wrong items, I dont 
think its reasons are sufficient to satisfy me that it was unreasonable for RSA to say that it 
was unlikely to be a genuine error. When making a claim the onus is on the insured to set 
out what it has lost. When making its statement D did not give any indication that it didnt 
know how the system operated or that N was new to the system. Instead, D set out how the 
system and website operated to record the stock levels and said that the inventory was 
updated on a daily basis.
I have taken into consideration that D took on board RSAs concerns and revised the loss list 
when alerted to the CCTV footage. I have also noted Ds point that it did not have any 
reason to think that the loss list might not be accurate before this. However, I dont believe 
that it has sufficiently explained how the list of items stolen changed from those set out on 
the original list. The number of items did not only reduce but also many of the items claimed 
for changed e.g. the number of smaller items claimed for increased from 7 to 14. In view of this, I dont intend to interfere with RSAs decision to find that the original claim was 
fraudulent.
I have considered RSAs point that the claim remains exaggerated but I can also see that C 
provided a report which concluded that the 58 items on the resolved list could plausibly have 
been put into the bag and dragged by one person. C also said the items could have given 
the bag the appearance of being half full. However, I dont think this makes a difference to 
the outcome of this decision because in line with the Act, RSA is entitled to void the policy 
and decline the claim due to it finding that the original claim was exaggerated. I also think 
RSA is entitled to recover the cost of instructing C as it would not needed to have paid for 
this this if the claim was accurate.
I am aware of the significance that my decision will have on D, and on Mr B personally, but, 
based on the information provided, I do not think it would produce a fair and reasonable 
outcome for me to uphold Ds complaint.
RSA did not provide any further comments. 
D was unhappy with my provisional decision. It reiterated the impact of RSAs actions and 
the impact of my not upholding this complaint. D said that it had not seen the CCTV footage 
and that the door to its premises had been left open all night after the theft. D provided a 
copy of an email to RSA dated 1 February 2022 to support that it had accepted RSAs initial 
offer. 
D said that it was for RSA to prove that D had been fraudulent, as set out in Derry v Peek  
1889, and not for D to prove that it hadnt been. It said the information put forward by RSA 
which cast doubt on Ds honesty was not sufficient to prove fraud. 
In response, I said that I was required to reach a decision based on what I thought was most 
likely to have happened. I clarified that when considering the information submitted by both 
parties I thought RSA had done enough to show that the claim was most likely exaggerated 
and therefore it could decline Ds claim due to a fraudulent act. 
D said that there was a higher standard required for fraud and said that in Hornal v 
Neuberger Products Ltd Lord Denning MR said, the more serious the allegation the higher 
the degree of probability that is required.
As D said it had not had an opportunity to view the CCTV footage our Investigator asked 
RSA to provide D with a copy. 
D expressed concerns that the footage had been amended as some images had been 
zoomed in and date and time stamps removed. D said that RSA had not accounted for the 
items which were carried rather than being in the bag, and that RSA had underestimated the 
time the thieves were in the building. D said that CCTV showed that the thieves had difficulty 
carrying the bag which indicated that there were a lot of items in there and that items could 
also have been stashed and returned for later. D said, having viewed the CCTV, it appeared 
that its original loss list could have been correct and if it had reviewed the CCTV sooner it 
would not have doubted its inventory. 
RSA did not agree that the footage had been amended. 
Ds broker also provided comments for my consideration in support of D. The broker thought 
that RSA should have paid Ds claim on a reduced basis if it had concerns, rather than 
accusing it of being fraudulent.To address the further information that had been provided I sent both parties an email via 
our Investigator on 17 July 2023. In that email I said:
I have noted Ds points about Derry v Peek  1889 and Lord Dennings comments about 
the higher degree of probability that is required by a court. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service is an alternative to the courts and while I take account of the law, I am required to 
make a decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances. I recognise the impact of RSAs allegation of a fraudulent act but it remains 
that my role is to reach a decision based on what I think is most likely.
As D has said, the onus is on RSA to show that the claim has most likely been exaggerated. 
RSA also needs to show that it is more likely than not that this was done for financial gain.
I understand that Ds position is now that it thinks its original list was accurate and would not 
have queried it if it had seen the CCTV footage.
When bringing its complaint to us, D said that it accepted the revised figures, having 
engaged with its third party accounts executive. It said that the teething problems of adopting 
the system had become clearer. D said it accidentally claimed for items that had not been 
stolen. In particular, it said it originally claimed for items that were showing on its system as 
pending, as it did not think these items had been sent out. It said this was due to a lack of 
understanding of its accounting system.
However, given that D had twice confirmed that the loss list was accurate, had explained 
how the inventory system worked, not given any indication that it was not aware of how the 
system worked and changed a number of items on the loss list, I think it is reasonable for 
RSA to decide that the original loss list was most likely deliberately exaggerated for financial 
gain.
D has expressed concerns about the CCTV footage and believes this has been cropped by 
RSA to trick him. It said it was unfair for RSA to not share that there was a second person in 
the building for an additional minute, to say the bag was half full and could be pulled with 
ease and to not mention the stock carried in the hands of one of the thieves.
I specifically asked D to explain in as much detail as possible about how it produced the 
different loss lists. I have listened to a call where Mr B explained how he produced the loss 
lists. He has also provided a helpful video to show how the system works. Mr B said that the 
accounting was done by a separate company (N) and, after the theft, he used the inventory 
to create the loss list, although given the amount of stock it is difficult to be 100% accurate. 
However, after RSA raised concerns about the amount of items stolen, he looked at this 
again and produced a different list. Mr B said that if he had realised the length of time the 
thieves had been in the building, and that there could have been items removed which 
werent shown in the CCTV, he would have stuck with his original list.
Mr Bs explanation has not persuaded me to depart from the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision. Mr B has not said this, but it would be reasonable to expect for a stock 
take to be completed to compare the items that were left in the premises to those on the 
inventory in order to create the original loss list. He then produced a different list after RSA 
raised concerns.
Mr B said he had noticed that some items which were showing as pending had been 
dispatched and so shouldnt have been on the original loss list. However, the second loss list 
is not just the original list minus the items showing as pending as other items were added to 
it. Mr B has now told us that he would have stuck to the original list. However, this would 
also have been incorrect because he has told us that some of the items on this list had been dispatched. So Im not persuaded this was an accurate list either.
D has shown why it believes the footage has been cropped and has provided an email from 
the premises security company which says it would not provide cropped CCTV.
RSA has said that it has not cropped the footage. I appreciate Ds concern about this 
because I accept that the footage appears to have been zoomed in. I am not sufficiently 
persuaded that RSA has cropped the footage as it said that it was forwarded the footage by 
the police. But it is not the CCTV which has led me to reach the decision I have so this does 
not make a difference to the outcome of my decision.
This is because it is difficult to know exactly how many items the bag can hold and the initial 
list provided by D is unlikely to be correct given that it has told us some items it listed were 
still showing on the system as pending. RSAs forensic accountant (C) said in its report that 
the 58 items on the second loss list could plausibly have been stolen when considering that 
some items were also carried. Please note this is a correction of my provisional decision 
where in error I stated that C said the 58 items could plausibly have been in the bag. C also 
said the items could have given the bag the appearance of being half full. However, this 
does not change that the loss lists provided by D were inconsistent.
It is unhelpful that RSA did not tell D that one of the thieves was carrying items as I can see 
that it took this into account when considering the value of the items which had been stolen. 
But, irrespective of how long the thieves were in the premises, in my view this does not 
change that initial loss list was most likely exaggerated and I am persuaded by RSA that this 
was not a genuine mistake.
D is also unhappy that RSA said it [D] had not accepted RSAs settlement offer prior to the 
allegation being made. I can see that D accepted RSAs offer on the same date that RSA 
was made aware of the allegation made by Ds employee. [While] I can understand this 
would be frustrating for Mr B, I do not think that this means that RSA had to pay D the 
amount it offered as it was entitled to investigate the allegation [of Mr Bs involvement]. 
In response, D said that my decision missed that the sole reason this happened was 
because RSA had not been honest. D said RSA had lied about D not accepting the claim, 
about the time taken for the theft and about a second thief remaining in the building. D also 
said RSA had lied about and amended the CCTV footage. 
D said it was happy with its original loss list but RSA said that it was not possible that those 
items had been stolen. D said it provided its best explanation of what could have happened 
and if RSA had been honest and not edited the CCTV the outcome of the claim would have 
been very different. 
D said it was RSA who had pointed to Derry v Peek. 
D said that there had been a genuine theft and the only issue was the quantum of the loss. It 
said that if I did not think that RSA should pay the sum that was originally offered a 
reasonable middle ground would be for RSA to pay D a reduced value. It said it seemed this 
is what RSA had in mind as it was referred to in my provisional decision. D does not think it 
would be fair for RSA to be allowed to renege on its agreement, void the policy and leave  
Mr B on the fraud register. It added that, given the discrepancies in RSAs evidence, to not 
uphold this complaint would be to hold Mr B to a higher standard than RSA. 
D did not think it was reasonable that I did not intend to uphold its complaint and requested 
that a different Ombudsman consider its complaint. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered the information provided by both parties, I am not persuaded to 
depart from the outcome I reached in my provisional decision and email on 17 July 2023. I 
will explain why. 
D has made a number of detailed points throughout this complaint. While I have considered 
them all, I have not addressed each point within this decision. Instead, I have focused on 
what I consider to be the central issues to this complaint. This reflects the informal nature of 
our service and my role. 
I recognise that there was a genuine theft at Ds premises, but RSA is entitled to void Ds 
policy from the date of any fraudulent act; and, where there has been a fraudulent act, can 
refuse to pay the claim. I have to make a decision based on what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened. 
Given the inconsistencies in the information provided by D, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and email of 17 July 2023, I believe that RSA has shown that it is more 
likely than not that the original loss list submitted by D was exaggerated and that it was not 
an innocent mistake. I have considered Ds point that if it had sight of the CCTV sooner it 
would have stuck with its original loss list. But that list would also not have been correct due 
to the pending items which had been dispatched. I also havent been provided with any 
persuasive evidence to explain why the two lists differed to the extent that they did and to 
persuade me that its more likely than not that the original list was accurate. 
I can understand Ds frustration that some of the CCTV footage has been zoomed in and 
that it was not informed about a second thief carrying items in their hands. But I can see that 
RSAs forensic expert took account of the items being carried when reaching its conclusions 
and it remains that there are sufficient inconsistences in the information provided by D to 
persuade me that it was fair and reasonable for RSA to void Ds policy, refuse to pay its 
claim and to record this information on a fraud database. Therefore, I do not think it would 
produce a fair and reasonable outcome for me to require RSA to pay a reduced amount 
towards the claim.    
For completeness, I would like to address Mr Bs point where he said I had made an error 
because it was RSA who referred to Derry v Peek. The reference was contained in an email 
from Ds representative, dated 3 May 2023, which said:
Lord Herschell in the important case of Derry v Peek 1889 said Firstly, in order 
to sustain an action of deceit, there must be proof of fraud, and nothing short of 
that will suffice.. It is submitted that the information advanced by RSA to cast 
doubt on the honesty of our clients claim falls far short of proving fraud
As I have referred to the actions and comments of Ds representative as being those of 
D, I believe that I was correct to state that D referred to Derry v Peek.
I recognise my decision will be a considerable disappointment to Mr B, but having 
considered things very carefully, I do not uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision and subsequent emails, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman