DRN-2564810
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) has 
settled a claim they made on their NHBC Buildmark warranty.
Mr E has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to him only.
What happened
Mr E bought a new home which was covered by a ten-year NHBC warranty. He got in touch 
with NHBC about a problem with the mortar in the brickwork of his home.
As the claim was made within the first two years of the warranty, NHBC considered it under 
section 2 and offered its Resolution Service. NHBC agreed there was crumbling mortar on 
all elevations that did not meet its technical requirements. As a result, it asked the builder of 
the home to carry out work to certain areas of the mortar.
The builder didnt fulfil the requirements set out by NHBC. So, in line with section 2 of the 
warranty, NHBC took over responsibility for the claim. It considered a partial repair of the 
mortar would put the problem right and offered Mr E around £9,000 to settle the claim. This 
was based on the amount it would cost NHBC to carry out the partial repair scheme.
Mr E got in touch with two local builders. They both quoted around £11,000-£12,000 to 
repair all the mortar. Mr E said the builders were unwilling to carry out the partial repair 
NHBC had recommended. NHBC said it was unnecessary to repair all the mortar in order to 
comply with its technical requirements and didnt agree to increase its settlement offer.
Unhappy with this, Mr E referred his complaint to this service. NHBC provided details of two 
other builders near to Mr E that may be able to help. Mr E got in touch with them  and a fifth 
builder  but none of the builders offered to quote for the partial repair. The investigator 
shared this information with NHBC and suggested NHBC either arrange the partial repair 
work itself or increase the cash settlement offer in line with the quotes Mr E had received. 
NHBC disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NHBC has accepted the claim for the crumbling mortar under section 2 of the warranty. 
Within that section it says how NHBC will settle claims. In summary it says NHBC will pay 
the cost of any work required by a Resolution Report, which the builder doesnt complete in 
accordance with NHBC requirements. Alternatively, NHBC may arrange to get that work 
done at its own expense.
The Resolution Report set out the work NHBC considered was needed in order to meet its 
technical requirements. Broadly speaking that was to repair all the mortar on two elevations 
of the house and carry out more localised repairs on the other two elevations. NHBCs 
schedule of work, and associated cost, was based on this partial repair scheme.
The Resolution Service, including the report, isnt within my power to consider as it doesnt 
amount to an insurance activity. My power to consider how NHBC has acted in this case 
begins when it took over responsibility for the work. So, I cant consider NHBCs view on the 
extent of work required under the warranty.
I agree with NHBC that the warranty gives it the right to choose whether to settle the claim 
by arranging the work or paying for it. When making that choice, NHBC must ensure the 
settlement is fair to Mr E. That includes providing a lasting and effective repair of the 
damage NHBC has accepted is covered by the warranty.
Mr E has been in touch with five different builders. None of them has quoted for the partial 
repair scheme specified by NHBC. Thats three companies hed found himself and the two 
recommended by NHBC. Two quoted to replace all the mortar on all elevations, both of 
which cost more than the settlement offered by NHBC. The investigator suggested NHBC 
arrange to carry out the work, but it declined to do so.
This means Mr E cant find anyone willing to carry out the repairs NHBC have specified  
including NHBC itself. And if he were to have a greater schedule of work carried out, 
NHBCs settlement offer wouldnt cover the cost. So, Mr E is unable to get NHBCs repair 
scheme carried out for NHBCs offer. Because of that Im not satisfied the offer is fair.
NHBC has questioned whether the builders could carry out the partial repair scheme but 
would prefer to carry out the more extensive work. Ive considered the information Mr E has 
provided from the builders.
One expressed a concern that the two elevations NHBC had scheduled for repairs to 
localised sections only would ultimately fail and the visual result would be poor. They said: 
total elevation repointing is the ONLY way of solving this issue.
Another said: the simple fact is, so much of the mortar has failed, experience indicates 
bigger fundamental issues with the work we would advise a minimum to repoint one full 
elevation at a time.
A third builder said they agreed with the comments of the others and would only be willing to 
repair entire elevations.
Neither of the builders recommended by NHBC gave comments to Mr E. And I havent seen 
any evidence from NHBC that any other builder would see things differently to the three 
above and would be prepared to carry out its repair scheme. Mr E has tried five different 
builders and none of them have been prepared to quote for the partial repair. Based on the 
comments above, Im satisfied this is because they dont think the partial repair will bring 
about a lasting and effective solution to the mortar problem. Overall, Im persuaded the 
evidence shows Mr E cant find a builder willing to carry out the partial repair work, despite 
making reasonable attempts to do so.
One option to solve this problem would be for NHBC to arrange to carry out its partial repair 
scheme. NHBC includes this option in the terms of the warranty. The investigator has 
suggested this to NHBC, but it hasnt agreed to do so. As neither of the builders it 
recommended to Mr E were prepared to quote for the work, it may encounter the same 
difficulties Mr E has. And given what the three builders have said, theres a risk that NHBCs 
repair scheme wont provide a lasting and effective repair of the damage covered by the 
warranty. So, Im not satisfied this option is likely to bring about a fair resolution.The alternative is for NHBC to increase its cash offer to enable Mr E to get the work done 
through one of the builders he contacted. NHBC maintains its unnecessary to repair all four 
elevations in order to meet its technical requirements. But this is the only way Mr E can get 
the work covered by the warranty carried out without being out of pocket. NHBC hasnt put 
forward any other ways of settling the claim. Im satisfied this is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint.
One of the builders Mr E was in touch with during the claim quoted £9,950 plus VAT in early 
2019. I understand theyre prepared to standby that quote still. So, Ill be requiring NHBC to 
increase its offer to £9,950 and pay this amount to Mr E to settle this complaint. And once he 
shows hes liable to pay the VAT element of £1,990, NHBC should pay him this amount too.
   
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require National House-Building Council to:
Pay Mr and Mrs E £9,950;
Once Mr and Mrs E have shown theyre liable to pay the VAT element, pay an 
additional £1,990.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman