DRN-2898582
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy after QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined a claim they made on their 
buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to QIC includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
On 10 March 2020 Mr and Mrs F made QIC aware that their boundary wall had been
damaged during storm conditions in February 2020 and they registered a claim under their
policy. Theyve said the delay in notifying QIC was because initially they were going to pay
for the repair damage themselves, but later changed their mind.
QIC declined the claim as they said there was evidence to suggest the damage was as a
result of the poor design of the wall. Mr and Mrs F were unhappy and made a complaint to
QIC.
In their final response letter QIC said their inhouse technical surveying team had found that
the claim should be repudiated on the basis that fences arent covered as a general
exclusion and that the fence panels were fixed to a single skin block wall - which caused a
sail affect and resulted in the collapse of the wall.
Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy and referred their complaint to our service for an
independent review.
Our investigator considered the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. He found that
the claim had been unfairly declined and, in his opinion, storm conditions were the main
cause of the damage. He recommended that QIC reconsider the claim again. QIC didnt
accept the findings. They said they felt theyd been able to demonstrate that the proximate
cause of the collapse of the wall was its design and not the storm winds.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. In my provisional decision I explained that I 
was intending to reach a different outcome to the investigator and not uphold this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs F responded to the provisional decision but QIC didnt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
As my provisional findings form part of my final decision Ive included a copy of them below.
Copy of provisional decision 
Mr and Mrs F have referred to another ombudsmans decision when submitting their
complaint. But our service considers each complaint on its own merits and it would be
inappropriate of me to comment on another ombudsmans decision on another complaint.
When coming to my own decision Ill be following our services established approach to
assessing complaints relating to storm claims.
That is:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ill also be considering whether QIC have treated Mr and Mrs F fairly and reasonably overall
when considering their claim.
Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage happened?
Both parties are in agreement that there were storm conditions around the time of the
damage to the wall. Im satisfied there were storm conditions around the time this damage
occurred based on the relevant weather report records.
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Yes. The damage being claimed for is consistent with the type of damage seen in a storm
with the winds recorded here.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
QIC have said they were unable to arrange a surveyor to attend the property and inspect the
damage. They advised Mr and Mrs F to either source their own surveyor or provide them
with images of the damage being claimed for. Ive seen copies of the images Mr and Mrs F
have provided. The photos show fence panels attached to a wall that has collapsed. Some
of the panels appear to still be attached to the brick work, but at least one panel has
separated from the brickwork.
QIC say the wall collapsed because of the fence panels being attached to a single skin block
wall - which in turn caused a sail effect, resulting in the collapse of the wall. They referred to
the policy exclusions around poor workmanship:
13 Poor workmanship
Loss or damage caused by poor workmanship, use of faulty materials (including
latent defects) or poor design (a latent defect is a fault which exists but which only
causes a problem at a later stage under certain conditions)
The photographs provided by Mr and Mrs F show a design that will have placed high
pressure on the brick work at the base of the fence panels due to the sail effect. The wall
was single skin that has collapsed at the mortar level between bricks - slightly above where it
wasnt supported by decking. Whist Mr and Mrs F have referred to the wall previouslywithstanding higher windspeeds  and this may be correct, based on the design it seems
reasonable for me to conclude that the wall design will have caused it to become weaker as
time and storms have passed - hence collapsing as it has done here at these windspeeds
The nature of the collapse of the wall also supports this.
The fence panels used also dont appear to have any notable gaps in them that would allow
the wind to pass through, reducing the wind resistance and force that wouldve been exerted
on the wall. It also appears, based on the photos provided, that the fence panels were
attached to supports which were bolted to the wall, rather than any of the supports being in
the ground.
Ive carefully considered all of this alongside what Mr and Mrs F have said about the wall
standing for almost a decade since they moved to the property:
The remainder of the wall and fences, which were built in the same way did not
collapse and remain standing, despite being exposed to the same conditions. If the
wall was poorly designed, I would have expected all of it to collapse, especially as
some of the collapsed section was attached to the section that is still standing.
But I dont agree this is evidence of there not being a design issue. I say this because the
photographs show the section of wall and fence that have collapsed were next to a lower
level of decking. By this I mean the fence panels were attached to bricks at a higher point
than the bricks which were supported by decking and it could be argued that they are not the
same design as the section that has collapsed. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, the section of wall and fencing still standing had the fence 
panels attached at a different level, possibly supported by the higher decking. In my opinion, 
the still standing section of the wall/fence isnt strong or persuasive evidence that there 
wasnt an issue with the design of the section of the wall that collapsed.
Mr F has said: It's unfair to rely on this clause [poor workmanship], as the fence panels
were in place before I moved in. I am not responsible for their installation or design. As the
property owners, he and Mrs F were ultimately responsible for maintenance. The policy
terms also specifically exclude cover for the general maintenance of a property.
In summary, I find it more likely than not that the wall design was the main cause of the
collapse here  not the windspeeds.
I currently intend to find overall that QIC have fairly declined this claim - inline with the policy
terms and in this case can rely on the poor workmanship term. I also dont find that QIC
have treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly overall here.
I appreciate that my intended findings will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs F, particularly as
our investigator had previously recommended a different outcome.
Mr and Mrs Fs response 
Mr and Mrs F have said the onus is on QIC to show that the damage being claimed for is 
because of poor design and that the wall has failed because of that poor design  but that 
they cant do it by the standards in place at the time of the claim - they need to demonstrate 
that the wall design didnt meet the appropriate standards at the time it was built. 
When reaching my decision I consider many factors and our approach is certainly one of 
them. In this case although the date the wall was built is unknown, its at least 10 years old - 
as it was there before Mr and Mrs F moved into the property. Its my opinion that the poor design of the wall, which caused a sail effect was the main cause of the collapse and not the 
winds. 
Mr and Mrs F have said: 
.if a business relies on this type of exclusion, the onus is on them to show the item 
being claimed for is of poor design and has failed because of that poor design, but 
they can't do it by the standards in place at the time of the claim. They need to 
demonstrate it didn't meet the appropriate standards at the time it was built.
Mr and Mrs F have also accepted that building regulations werent relevant to the 
construction of this wall. So, as no buildings regulations/standards apply here and it was 
constructed prior to them acquiring the property, Ive had to make a judgement call on the 
design of the wall - given the gap of at least 10 years between construction and collapse. 
To address some of the points made directly: 
The wall was in good condition, the bricks were solid, not spalling or suffering from 
water or frost damage. Similarly, the mortar joints were clean, there was no 
significant plant growth, nothing was de-bonded, and the mortar wasn't 
eroding/eroded (you can see from this in the pictures that it is still solid). 
To suggest I haven't maintained it is unreasonable and based on an 
incorrect assumption  there was nothing to maintain.
The point Id made in my provisional findings about maintenance under this policy was in 
relation to Mr and Mrs Fs saying the wall/fence was there before they moved in and they 
werent responsible for its design. But the wall and its design became the responsibility of 
Mr and Mrs F when they bought the property.
To expand further on my observations (based on the photographs provided), its my opinion 
that the bricks are approximately the same width as the fence panels which rested on top of 
them and they rest on a thin bed of mortar. I note one brick tie is visible, but accept that 
others may not be shown in the photographs following the collapse. 
Whilst the bricks do appear to be in a decent condition for a wall of at least 10 years old, the 
wall has still blown over. I agree that the majority of the bricks havent broken, but the mortar 
has given way having previously withstood strong winds across many years. On balance, I 
find it reasonable to conclude that this has been the result of a poor wall design and 
eventually blown over in February 2020.
To reiterate my point about the design, Mr and Mrs F have shared photographs of their new 
replacement boundary fence and, in my opinion, its a much better and stronger design.
I wont be commenting on another ombudsmans decision in my final decision. That final 
decision presents the ombudsmans findings, but the exact circumstances of the complaint 
and damage being claimed for in that case wont be known to Mr and Mrs F. 
Having considered Mr and Mrs Fs comments and the evidence afresh, it remains my 
opinion that the poor design of the wall/fence was the main cause of the collapse here and 
not the wind speed. I find that QIC have fairly considered and declined the claim - inline with 
the policy terms.
I know my decision will naturally disappoint Mr and Mrs F, but it brings to an end what we - in 
trying to informally resolve their dispute with QIC can do for them.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman