DRN-2365322
The complaint
  Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mishandled his chargeback claim and feels that 
the compensation offered is insufficient for the mistakes it made. 
What happened
Mr W made a travel booking in June 2019 using his HSBC debit card. The cost of the 
booking was £738. Before Mr W could travel, however, the travel company went into 
liquidation and Mr W put in a chargeback claim to HSBC on the basis that he hadnt had the 
service hed paid for.
The chargeback claim was made on 2 October 2019 and, at the same time, Mr W provided a 
letter from ABTA setting out the process to be followed for this claim. Initially HSBC said it 
couldnt assist and Mr W would need to contract the Civil Aviation Authority.  However, it 
then agreed it had given Mr W incorrect information and offered Mr W £100 compensation 
for its mistake as well as agreeing to re-open the claim. 
Mr W says HSBC then continued to make mistakes. It failed to explain the chargeback 
process and as a result, it wasnt until HSBCs letter of 21 January, that he realised that, 
although HSBC had credited his account with the £738 when the claim was made, it could 
then take this out again if the claim was declined. This is what happened in this case and Mr 
W says, in order to stop his account from going into overdraft, he had to borrow money from 
his family and from his savings. Mr W also complains that HSBC closed his claim incorrectly 
and then missed the deadline to refer the claim to arbitration as it should have done.
Mr W says the claim was straightforward but HSBC didnt deal with it as it should have done. 
He cant understand how it was rejected and believes it may have been due to HSBC giving 
incorrect information. Hed like HSBC to compensate him for the upset and inconvenience 
hes had as a result of its mistakes, including the financial problems he had when HSBC re-
debited the money from his account without notice.
HSBC agreed it had made a number of mistakes in its handling of Mr Ws claim. It offered 
him £100 compensation for this, in addition to the £100 it had already paid in November 
2019.
Our investigator said he thought HSBCs offer was fair. While the mistakes had clearly 
caused Mr W inconvenience and upset, thered been no actual financial loss as the cost of 
the booking had been refunded in full by ABTA. On that basis he considered that £200 
compensation was reasonable.
Mr W disagreed and said he didnt consider that £200 was enough for the inconvenience 
and upset and the time hed had to spend in pursuing this claim. He noted that HSBC had 
offered £100 for its initial mistake in giving him incorrect information but had only offered the 
same for its multiple errors after that.  He said HSBCs mistakes could have resulted in him 
losing the £738 completely if he hadnt been able to get the refund from ABTA. And he said 
hed relied on the payment into his account to book another trip and when it was re-debited 
later, hed been forced to borrow money to stop his account going into overdraft. He didnt 
feel the additional £100 reflected this or the upset hed had. He asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the view that the compensation offered by HSBC is reasonable 
so I wont be asking it to pay anything more as Ill now explain.
Its not in dispute that HSBC made a number of mistakes in its handling of Mr Ws claim. It 
said initially that it couldnt deal with it , which it accepts was incorrect. However, having 
agreed to take it on, the problems continued. Despite being a straightforward claim, where 
the merchant had gone out of business before the booking could be fulfilled, it was declined 
and I share Mr Ws concerns as to why this was. HSBC also failed to refer the claim to 
arbitration within the time limits allowed and failed to explain the process properly to Mr W.  I 
can understand why Mr W feels so dissatisfied with the service provided by HSBC and can 
see that this process has been made more stressful and complicated than it needed to be. 
However, HSBCs apologised and offered Mr W £200 compensation for whats happened. 
Thats £100 for initially saying it couldnt deal with the claim and a further £100 for the 
problems that occurred after that.  Mr Ws explained very clearly the impact of these 
mistakes on him and why he feels that £200 is not enough for the upset and worry that hes 
had. 
Putting things right
Im pleased to see that Mr W was able to able to recover the costs of this booking from 
elsewhere and so is not out of pocket as a result of whats happened. I can also see that, 
although Mr W had to take steps to prevent his account going overdrawn when HSBC re- 
debited the disputed amount, he was able to do so and again I cant see that he incurred any 
specific additional costs as a result although I appreciate how stressful it must have been. 
The question therefore is whether the compensation offered is appropriate for the upset and 
inconvenience experienced by Mr W as a result of HSBCs mistakes. Theres no precise way 
of calculating such awards and it will depend on the circumstances of each case and the 
impact on the individual. I appreciate how strongly Mr W feels about the way his claim has 
been dealt with but taking into account the impact of the errors and the time they lasted, I 
consider that HSBCs offer of £200 compensation is not unreasonable in the circumstances. 
As I understand it the offer of the additional £100 is still open and if Mr W wishes to accept it, 
I would ask him to contact HSBC direct. 
I realise Mr W may be disappointed by my decision but in the circumstances, I wont be 
asking HSBC to pay anything more.My final decision
 My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman