DRN-4506484
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain Campbell & Associates Independent Financial Advice Ltd 
(Campbell) failed to invest £40,000 they transferred to it to top up their portfolios in 
February 2018.   
What happened
Mr and Mrs N held a series of investments across a number of different providers. Their 
investments were managed by an advisor at Campbell that the couple knew well. In 
February 2018, Mr and Mrs N transferred Campbell two lots of £20,000, to be credited to 
each of their ISAs. 
Mr and Mrs N were led to understand all of their payments were credited to their 
investments, as Campbell provided them with a spreadsheet which tracked the balances of 
all of their various holdings. This spreadsheet was inclusive of the payments the couple had 
directly transferred to Campbell and its advisor in February 2018. 
The couple had cause to doubt what theyd been told about their investments when they 
were contacted by the FCA, whod begun an investigation into Campbells conduct. This 
prompted them to speak to a number of their investment providers. And Mr and Mrs N came 
to realise Campbell hadnt invested their money as it said it had. Their money was, contrary 
to what Campbells spreadsheet showed, inexplicably missing. 
Mr and Mrs N complained to Campbell. They demanded that it return their money with 
interest. Campbell didnt reply to Mr and Mrs Ns complaint, so they referred the matter to 
our service. 
Our investigator made efforts to contact Campbell and obtain its response to Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint. One of our investigators spoke to a solicitor working on behalf of the advisor. The 
solicitor confirmed Campbell and its advisor were aware of the complaints made against it. In 
the absence of any formal response from Campbell, our investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint. They felt the couple should be compensated for their financial losses, and for the 
distress and inconvenience theyd suffered due to Campbells actions. 
To date, our service has received no explanation for, or defence of the issues Mr and Mrs N 
have raised in their complaint against Campbell. Because of this, the matter has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
Mr and Mrs N have other similar complaints about different deposits they made with 
Campbell. But my decision here will focus solely on the £40,000 the couple paid Campbell in 
February 2018. 
I wrote to all parties to explain that, provisionally, it was my intention to uphold Mr and Mrs 
Ns complaint. This is what I said: 
At the outset, Id observe that given the subject matter and implications of Mr and Mrs Ns 
complaint, its quite extraordinary that Campbell has failed to respond to it in any meaningful 
way. Im satisfied however that its appropriate for me to proceed with my decision on this 
complaint.
Our rules, outlined in DISP 3.5.9 R explain that I may reach a decision on the basis of what 
has been supplied and take account of the failure by a party to provide information 
requested. And that is what I intend to do in Mr and Mrs Ns case.  
As a regulated firm, when dealing with its customers, Campbell is required at all times to 
uphold a series of high-level principles set by the FCA. Amongst other things, the principles 
outlined in PRIN 2.1.1 R require that: 
A firm must conduct its business with integrity A firm must conduct its business 
with due skill, care and diligence... A firm must observe proper standards of market 
conduct A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Where investments are concerned, these principles are further bolstered by the rule in 
COBS 2.1.1 R, which requires that: 
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client. 
Mr and Mrs N have evidenced they paid two lots of £20,000 to Campbell. One on 14 
February 2018, and the other on 15 February 2018. 
The couple recall the £40,000 they paid in 2018 was to be divided equally amongst their 
ISAs. The couple have suggested in their submissions to us that these payments were 
intended for one of their providers in particular. However, in the evidence thats been 
submitted to me, Ive found the provider they initially named didnt hold ISAs for either of 
them during the period in question. Given that the £40,000 is exactly equivalent to their 
combined ISA allowances, Ive assumed that this money was intended to be invested with 
the firm that actually held ISAs for them at that time. A firm Ill be referring to throughout my 
decision as Platform A. 
Having reached out to the various providers of Mr and Mrs Ns investments, it does not 
appear that the £40,000 Campbell was paid in 2018 was ever deposited with any of the 
firms. Meanwhile the spreadsheet the couple claim was sent to them by Campbell suggests 
otherwise. It appears to give a false impression that the money was invested as it shouldve 
been. Theres no evidence to suggest Campbell ever invested this money in the way Mr and 
Mrs N expected. Nor is there any evidence of what Campbell actually did with the money.
From the evidence available to me, Im satisfied Campbell has failed to invest Mr and Mrs 
Ns money in the manner they recall agreeing to. I have seen no evidence that would give 
me pause to doubt Mr and Mrs Ns submissions on these points. 
In my opinion, if Campbell and its advisor had accepted the couples money in the course of 
legitimate business, it would be relatively straightforward for it to refute their complaint. As a 
firm thats authorised to give advice and arrange investments for its customers, I would 
reasonably expect Campbell to provide evidence of: 
Arrangements and recommendations for any investments its sold. 
Paperwork substantiating the appropriateness or suitability of those investments.  
Diary notes or phone calls recording occasions those investments were discussed. The fact Campbell has failed to provide any such evidence is extremely concerning. As is 
the fact that according to the FCA register, Campbell doesnt appear to have ever been 
authorised to hold client money. Mindful of this, and in the absence of any counter-narrative 
defending itself, Im persuaded that Campbell has failed to invest Mr and Mrs Ns money as 
it should have. And by doing so, its failed to uphold the principles and requirements I 
referenced earlier in my decision. Im satisfied that Campbell has failed to treat Mr and Mrs N 
fairly. 
It remains for me to fairly and reasonably decide what Campbell must do to address the 
impact its actions have had on the couple. 
Putting things right
As Ive understood it, Mr and Mrs Ns expectations were that the money theyd paid to 
Campbell and its advisor was to be invested in their ISAs. 
From the evidence available, I can see the couples ISAs were held with Platform A. Within 
each ISA, Mr and Mrs N both invested in a model portfolio product provided by Platform A 
called WealthSelect Managed Active 5. So by failing to invest their money as it should 
have, Im satisfied Campbell has caused Mr and Mrs N to miss out on the growth that 
£40,000 of their money wouldve made had it been properly invested in Platform As model 
portfolio, via their ISAs.  
Firstly, I direct that Campbell must pay Mr and Mrs N the sum of £40,000. 
Next, I direct that Campbell must calculate the growth Mr and Mrs Ns two deposits of 
£20,000 would have made, had they been promptly invested in Platform As WealthSelect 
Managed Active 5 portfolio. For the purposes of this calculation, I think its fair and 
reasonable to expect that Campbell ought to have invested these deposits the same day 
they were received. So on 14 February 2018 and 15 February 2018 respectively. Campbell 
should calculate growth on these investments up until the date it settles this complaint. 
Completing this calculation will leave Campbell with a monetary figure Ill refer to as Figure 
X. Campbell must provide a breakdown of its calculations for Mr and Mrs N in a clear and 
simple format. 
Once it has completed this calculation, I direct that Campbell must pay Figure X to Mr and 
Mrs N.
Finally, Ive considered what Campbell must fairly and reasonably do to compensate Mr and 
Mrs N for the significant trouble and upset the events of their complaint have caused them. 
In coming to my decision here, Ive considered that: 
Mr and Mrs N recall having a relatively informal relationship with their advisor, and 
the realisation theyd been deceived as to the whereabouts of their money will have 
been upsetting for them. 
The couple have been distressed by the realisation their portfolio had around 
£40,000 less in it than it should have. And willve been left in this anxious state for 
months, not knowing if thered ever be given their money back. 
The couple have suffered the inconvenience of having to prepare submissions for 
both the FCA and our service, all as a result of Campbells failure to properly invest 
their money as it fairly and reasonably should have.    
Because of this, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to direct Campbell to pay Mr and Mrs N 
the sum of £300 in recognition of the impact its actions have had on them. Mr and Mrs N accepted my decision. Campbell did not reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party objected to the findings I made, I see no reason to depart from the outcome 
I reached in my provisional decision. All that remains is for me to make my decision final, 
which I shall now do.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, for the reasons given above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint 
against Campbell & Associates Independent Financial Advice Ltd. 
I require that the firm must now: 
Pay £40,000 to Mr and Mrs N
Calculate Figure X (as directed above) 
Give Mr and Mrs N a breakdown of its calculations in a clear and simple format
Pay Figure X to Mr and Mrs N 
Pay Mr and Mrs N £300
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman