DRN-2593468
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) didnt provide him with the information he asked 
for on his credit card account, causing problems with his job and remortgage.
What happened
Our service has already looked into a previous complaint about a letter Mr C asked for as 
well as problems with the income and expenditure form. TSB has also since issued a final 
response on 10 December 2019, paying Mr C £112 compensation for problems with 
statements he had asked for.
This decision will not revisit or cover the above. It will focus on matters following 10 
December 2019 to 26 November 2020, the date of TSBs final response on this.
Mr C has been asking TSB to provide evidence that the defaulted credit card account was 
being paid off. He said he needed this evidence to show another lender (Bank S) in order to 
obtain a remortgage. Hes said TSB delayed in providing the information and the information 
it did provide wasnt enough for Bank S.
TSB said the account is closed and in recoveries so Mr C would only receive an annual 
statement showing repayments made during the 12 month period  there is no interest or 
charge applied on the debt. It has provided information on the account about the repayment 
and balance on 10 December 2019, 31 January 2020 and again on 1 February 2021. All 
combined, the information shows payments made to the account up to January 2021. But 
TSB accepts it didnt keep Mr C properly informed about what to expect on a closed account 
and gave him conflicting information. For this reason, it sent him a cheque for £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused.
Mr C was not happy with this. He said the information provided by TSB wasnt enough for 
Bank S and TSBs actions caused him to lose his job and affected his ability to remortgage.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said TSB didnt send out the usual regular 
statements on a closed account and it wasnt for our service to say what process TSB 
should have for accounts in recovery.  She said Mr C would need to contact the company 
the debt was with now to obtain any further information Bank S needed and the £100 
compensation TSB had offered was fair.
Because Mr C didnt agree with our investigator, this case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs account is closed and in recoveries. This means its not operating and would have the 
normal facilities of an open account removed. In light of this, I think its reasonable that TSB 
doesnt provide regular and detailed statements in the way it would for an open credit card 
account where interest and charges were still being applied.
That said, Mr C did ask for statements showing he was making payments to clear this debt 
and TSB provided a letter on 10 December 2019 and an annual statement on 31 January 
2020. These outlined the payments made towards the debt and the remaining outstanding 
balance.
Mr C says the information TSB provided him with wasnt enough for Bank S, but he hasnt 
been able to provide evidence of Bank Ss written request for the information to show what 
exactly it was asking him for. In any case, I dont consider that TSB needed to provide any 
more information than it did as I dont think TSB is obliged to meet another banks 
requirements for the information TSB provides for its own accounts.
Mr C says TSBs actions caused him to lose his job as the stress of the matter caused him to 
have an aggressive outburst at work and he was forced to resign. I cant reasonably hold 
TSB responsible for Mr Cs actions here..
Mr Cs debt has been with a debt collection agency since September 2020 and it appears 
there is a repayment plan in place. If Mr C still needs to provide specific information about a 
plan and repayments to Bank S, he could contact the agency directly to outline what is 
needed.
TSB does accept it gave Mr C conflicting information and didnt make him aware of what to 
expect once an account was passed to recoveries. I agree this was the case but I consider 
the £100 TSB has offered Mr C is fair compensation for this in the circumstances.
Mr C has asked if TSB can grant him a re-mortgage, repair his credit rating, help him sell his 
home or compensate him at least £3,300 (the amount it passed to debt agencies). Ive seen 
no evidence to show it would be fair to ask TSB to do any of these things. As Ive said, I 
think the £100 it has already offered is fair and I wont be directing TSB to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman