DRN-1579175
The complaint
This complaint is about a portfolio of buy-to-let (BTL) properties that Mr G owns, with 
mortgages provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC. Mr G has told us he also has his residential 
mortgage and a business loan with Barclays. Hes unhappy with the delays and mistakes 
that occurred during 2018 when he wanted to arrange new products on his BTL mortgages 
and, in one case, re-mortgage a BTL property to Barclays from another lender. 
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome.
Mr G holds three mortgages with Barclays, with account numbers ending 101, 538 and 968 
respectively. All three were coming to the end of their current deals in May 2018. In 
January 2018 Mr G asked the bank for new products on all of them. He also wanted to 
re-mortgage a fourth property from another lender to Barclays, on which the deal was also 
due to end in May 2018. Ill refer to this from hereon as the fourth mortgage.
All three product switches were delayed several months; they were eventually implemented 
in November 2018. Unfortunately, the direct debits for the three in-house mortgages were 
missed for a month, due to a bank error.
Mr G says this caused problems with the fourth mortgage; hed decided to look elsewhere 
but the entries on his credit file complicated this. He eventually completed with another 
lender in the spring of 2019.  Mr G complained that the delays had caused him to pay far 
more each month than he should have done. Mr G also said that adverse information placed 
on his credit file for the missed payments had killed a business deal.
Barclays accepted it had taken too long and made refunds for the extra interest that had 
been charged on the three mortgages due to the delays in putting the new rates in place. 
The initial refunds were as follows:
Account ending 101: £2,158.58
Account ending 538; £3,406.33
Account ending 968: £1,640.21.
Barclays also paid Mr G the following sums:
 
Compensatory interest of £176.63 and £27.76;
£700 compensation for his time and trouble; and
£2,000 compensation because it was unable to provide the fourth mortgage.
Mr G said this wasnt enough, and the bank looked at things again. It agreed it had 
under-refunded the extra interest on the three accounts, and in an email dated 
6 March 2019, offered the following further refunds:
Account ending 101:    £710.22
Account ending 538;    £604.55
Account ending 968: £2,045.71.
Also in that email, Barclays agreed to pay another £100 compensation, making £800 in all. 
For the most part, Mr G agreed with the latest offer; the exception was the £2,000 offer in 
respect of the fourth mortgage. He didnt think that was enough to cover the extra interest he 
paid because he was on his previous lenders standard rate for so long.
Mr G referred his complaint to us in August 2019; he sought redress for the extra interest on 
the fourth mortgage - a little under £7,400  plus compensation of £3,500. Our investigator 
thought the redress Barclays had offered Mr G was fair in all the circumstances, but Mr G 
asked for his case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round. And I 
have to be mindful that I dont include anything in this decision that might identify Mr G.
Although the background to this case appears complex at first glance, Im only being asked 
to decide one thing. Thats because Mr G has indicated hes satisfied with the remedies 
Barclays put in place in respect of the in-house mortgages. What remains unresolved, and 
what I must decide, is how Barclays should fairly compensate Mr G in respect of the fourth 
mortgage. 
Its paid him £2,000; as I understand it for the amount of time it took to assess the 
application for affordability. The amount Mr Gs put on his complaint form is close to 
£11,000. Thats the nub of the complaint, and what I must decide is whether Barclays should 
fairly and reasonably be held liable to pay it to him. Thats a complex matter, and it starts 
with why the fourth mortgage didnt go ahead with Barclays. 
One thing I cant do here is make a finding that Barclays should have provided the fourth 
mortgage to Mr G. No one is entitled to borrow money, even from a bank that has lent 
already. The illustration Barclays provided for the fourth mortgage in April 2018 didnt commit 
to provide the mortgage. A lender must treat customers fairly; in the context of an application 
for lending, that means assessing it fairly in accordance with the banks lending criteria. Also, 
generally speaking, its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial 
judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that position here.Notwithstanding what happened with the credit file entries, it seems to me that there has to 
be significant doubt about whether Barclays would ever have agreed to provide the fourth 
mortgage, and Mr G was aware of that as early as May 2018. I say that because there was 
an exchange of emails from May and June 2018 in which the bank expresses very clearly its 
concern over the affordability of the fourth mortgage.  That being the case, I think he had a 
choice to make at that stage; that is, whether to press on with Barclays or look elsewhere. 
He had the incentive to do the latter; by now, he was paying over £960 a month to P.
I can understand Mr Gs preference to have all of the mortgages under one roof, so to 
speak. But given the doubt expressed in the banks emails about whether his 2018 income 
would be satisfactory to meet its affordability assessment, its reasonable to say Mr G might 
have looked to mitigate his position (or at least hedge his bets) by looking elsewhere for the 
fourth mortgage much sooner than he did and, crucially, before the adverse credit entries 
became a relevant factor. 
Overall Im not persuaded on the available evidence, that the extra interest Mr G incurred on 
his fourth mortgage should fairly be attributed to failings on Barclays part. Nor do I consider 
that any further award of compensation, beyond what Barclays has already paid him, is due 
to Mr G for his time, trouble and upset. 
He might have made the request to Barclays to consider the fourth mortgage around the 
same time that the three inhouse mortgage deals were expiring, which invites comparison. 
But unlike internal rate changes, a re-mortgage application requires a lot more work, 
involving as it does, a full application, valuation, underwriting and legal work. It therefore 
doesnt follow that the re-mortgage was mis-handled to the degree that the rate renewals 
were.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman