DRN-4240701
The complaint
Miss S has complained that Revolut Ltd wont refund transactions she says she didnt make 
or otherwise authorise.
What happened
In early 2023, two bank transfers were made using Miss Ss mobile banking app, totalling 
£450.
Miss S says this wasnt her. She said her phone was hacked and disabled. Her phone was 
with her at the time, it was never lost, it was locked with a code, no one else had access to it, 
she hadnt received any unusual contact, clicked any unusual links, or downloaded any new 
apps recently, and shed never shared her app or security details with anyone.
Revolut held Miss S liable for the payments in dispute. They found theyd been made using 
her genuine phone and security details along with one-time passcodes, and there didnt 
seem to be a likely way this couldve been done without her consent.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S 
didnt agree. She particularly felt that the transactions hadnt been authenticated properly 
and that they must have come from a different IP address to hers. She asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the case afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, Revolut can hold Miss S liable for the payments in dispute if the evidence 
suggests that she authorised them.
Im satisfied from Revoluts technical evidence that the payments in dispute used Miss Ss 
genuine mobile phone and app, her correct security details, and one-time passcodes that 
were sent to her mobile phone number. So I can see that these transactions were properly 
authenticated. The question, then, is whether the evidence suggests that its most likely 
Miss S consented to the transactions, or not.
The disputed payments were made using Miss Ss mobile phone  not any other device. 
This phone was with Miss S at the time, hadnt gone missing, was protected by a code, and 
only she had access to it. I can see that Miss S had access to this phone at the time as she 
used her Revolut app just minutes after the disputed payments. So theres no likely or 
plausible way that anyone else couldve been using her phone in person.
Ive also considered the possibility that Miss Ss app was accessed remotely  i.e. that she 
was hacked, as she suggested. But Miss S told Revolut she had not received any unusual 
contact, clicked any unusual links, downloaded any new apps, shared any of her details, 
used any shared wallets, shared her account, or anything like that. So its unclear how she 
could have been hacked. And these payments were properly authenticated using Miss Ss 
security details, which only she knew. There doesnt seem to be a likely or plausible way a 
thief couldve learned those details without Miss Ss consent. Further, the payments were 
made from the same IP address that Miss S used for her genuine spending and activity. The 
technical data does not show that anyone other than Miss S made the disputed payments. 
I find its not likely or plausible that the payments were made through hacking.
Miss S said that her phone had been effectively disabled. But I can see that she used her 
phone and mobile app to make a genuine payment straight after the disputed payments, to a 
person shed paid many times before. She then used her phone to chat with Revolut and 
carry out other genuine activity a couple of minutes after that. So I can see that her phone 
was working and she was able to access her app at the time.
Miss S said that she wasnt asked for any confirmation for these transactions or given any 
warning. However, I can see that she was sent one-time passcodes to her mobile phone 
number to check whether she really wanted to make these payments. These passcodes 
were then entered to confirm the transactions and let them go through. And before letting her 
make the payments, Revolut also displayed a warning that she should make sure she knows 
and trusts the payee, as they might not be able to recover her money, and if shes unsure 
then she shouldnt make the payment. Its recorded that Miss S chose to proceed.
I mightve expected a thief to try to take as much money as possible, as quickly as possible. 
But here, there were no further attempts to pay the disputed payee, and the majority of 
Miss Ss balance  a significant sum  was left untouched. This also tends to indicate that 
the disputed payments were not made by a thief or fraudster.
Lastly, Ive not seen any evidence that makes it seem implausible or unlikely that Miss S 
couldve authorised these payments or given someone else permission to make them.
In summary, Im satisfied that Miss Ss genuine phone, app, and security details were used, 
along with one-time passcodes sent to her genuine number. There is not a likely or plausible 
way that someone couldve made these payments without her consent, and the way the 
activity took place indicates that it was genuine. So it seems fair for Revolut to decline a 
refund in this case. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult 
message for Miss S to receive. But given the evidence I have, and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 Adam Charles
Ombudsman