The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that British Friendly Society Limited has declined a claim he made on his 
income protection insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr K took out an income protection policy, underwritten by British Friendly, on 12 April 2019 
(the policy). After a deferred period of 4 weeks, the policy can pay out a stipulated amount 
each month if Mr K was too sick to work  and the other terms of the policy are met.
Mr K was signed off sick from work by his GP with effect of 24 April 2019 with stress related 
illness, and subsequently for a further two months from 15 May 2019 with anxiety and 
depression.
In mid-May 2019, Mr K made a claim on the policy. The claim was declined by British 
Friendly on the basis that Mr Ks illness was a pre-existing medical condition. 
Unhappy with that decision, Mr K complained to us. Our investigator looked into his 
complaint and didnt think British Friendly had fairly declined the claim. Provided that Mr K 
satisfied the remaining terms of the policy, he advised that it should reinstate the claim and 
backdate the benefits payments to Mr K.
British Friendly disagreed. So, Mr Ks complaint has been passed to me to consider 
everything afresh and make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
British Friendly has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt turn 
down a claim unreasonably. 
Under the policy, British Friendly will not pay the benefit for:
any pre-existing conditions for which you have received consultation, treatment 
and/or medication, or asked advice on or had symptoms of (whether or not diagnosed) 
during the 3 years immediately before policy inception are automatically excluded. 
Existing conditions are excluded for the first 2 years of cover and will only be covered 
once you have been 2 years, symptom, treatment, medication or consultation free.
A pre-existing condition is defined as:
DRN-1154233Any disease, illness or injury, including related medical conditions, where either, in 
the 3 years before the start date of your policy:
you have had a consultation, medication, monitoring advice or treatment, or 
your medical records indicate, and your doctor confirms, that you had 
experienced symptoms of (whether or not a diagnosis has been made).
 
Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on the evidence available to me when considering 
whether British Friendly has acted fairly and reasonably by concluding that Mr K had a pre-
existing medical condition. 
Looking at the medical evidence  including Mr Ks GP records  within the three years prior 
to the date the policy started, theres nothing to suggest that Mr K attended a consultation, 
took medication or obtained monitoring advice or was treated for stress, anxiety, depression 
or similar. 
So, Ive considered whether hed experienced symptoms of these conditions within the three 
years prior to the policy start date. Although this case is finely balanced, and even on Mr Ks 
case, his symptoms started shortly after the policy was taken out, given the particular 
definition of pre-existing medical condition in the policy, I dont think British Friendly has fairly 
applied that definition to decline Mr Ks claim. 
Thats because Im not persuaded his medical records indicate - and his doctor hasnt 
confirmed - that Mr K experienced symptoms of anxiety and depression (or similar) before 
the policy started.
Mr Ks GP records indicate he visited his GP fairly regularly and theres no mention of him of 
feeling down, anxious or depressed before the policy was taken out. The first entry in the GP 
notes which relates to low mood is dated 26 April 2019  so after the policy start date. Its 
reflected that:
few weeks history of low mood, poor sleep, loss of motivation, loss of interest in 
activities
British Friendly says that if Mr Ks mood had been low for a few weeks as of 26 April 2019, 
then his symptoms were present before the policy started. 
However, the GP has subsequently said in mid-June 2019 that Mr Ks depression and 
anxiety started around 18 April 2019 and that work-related issues had triggered this. The GP 
also says that he had seen Mr K again on 29 May 2019 and his mental health had been 
made worse by seeing a friends dad dying. So, Im persuaded that the reference to a few 
weeks in the medical records wasnt meant to be taken as three weeks  but simply as 
meaning more than a week - and thats not inconsistent with Mr Ks low mood starting 
around 18 April.
Thats also consistent with the information Mr K provided when completing the CBT referral 
form dated 30 May 2019. Hes asked:
How long your current problems have been present and how have they changed over 
time.
Mr K responds:
5-6 weeks  stronger than before.I dont think British Friendly has reasonably interpreted this to mean that Mr K had been 
suffering symptoms before that period, but theyd worsened over the 5-6 weeks before 
completing the application. Im persuaded that what Mr K put is consistent with his 
symptoms starting around 18 April 2019  as confirmed by his GP in mid-June 2019  and 
that since then his symptoms had got worse from that date onwards. 
British Friendly also relies on a letter from Mr Ks CBT therapists letter dated June 2019 
which says Mr K presented with recurring symptoms of depression, and Mr K had told them 
that:
symptoms have been presenting for several years and was worsened recently by an 
experience that he believes is not fair as well as several losses
However, from everything Ive seen, Im persuaded the CBT therapists reference to Mr K 
having symptoms of depression for several years was most probably inaccurate. 
Thats because the CBT therapist wrote to Mr K in early July 2019, clarifying his comments 
and said Mr K had told him symptoms of general anxiety and depression had been 
persistent and worsened since he attended a funeral in April 2019. 
British Friendly has interpreted these further comments to mean his symptoms had been 
present before the funeral in April 2019, and so before the policy started. However, Mr Ks 
GP has said in July 2019 that due to English not being Mr Ks first language whats been 
said has been misinterpreted and the reference to symptoms being persistent was intended 
to mean that Mr Ks symptoms had been present every day since they first presented 
themselves in April 2019  not before then.
The CBT therapist has also said in early August 2019 that hed reviewed Mr Ks medical 
history and there was no prior medically assessed / documented or reported issues relating 
to anxiety and / or depressive symptoms. 
So, all in all, I dont think Mr Ks medical records indicate, and his doctor hasnt confirmed, 
that Mr K had experienced symptoms of anxiety, depression, stress or similar before the 
policy started.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account British Friendlys other comments including 
what it says about the information contained on its application about prior medical conditions 
not being covered for at least the first two years of the policy  and the definition of medical 
condition. However, thats different to the policy definition of pre-existing medical condition 
and Im satisfied the way in which a pre-existing medical condition is defined is more 
relevant when considering whether British Friendly fairly declined the claim in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
British Friendly should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
Having done so, if the claim is accepted, British Friendly should:
pay the backdated monthly payments to Mr K. This should be calculated from the 
date the monthly benefit shouldve first been paid to Mr K to the date it makes 
payment; and 
calculate and pay 8% simple interest* on the backdated payments from the date on 
which each backdated payment was due to be paid to the date payment is actually 
made. *If British Friendly Society Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take
off income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should
also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one. That way he can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint. I direct British Friendly Society Limited to put things right by doing 
what Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 10 December 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman