DRN-2150437
The complaint
Mr W complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) have made it difficult to 
access his money on a number of occasions and have offered poor service when these 
difficulties have arisen.
What happened
Mr W brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response, hed received from 
Halifax to the multiple concerns hed raised but, principally, the difficulties he faced when 
trying to access his money online and then when calling the bank on 23 April 2019.
Halifax upheld his complaint in part. In respect of the issues hed experienced with a cheque 
they acknowledged this and paid £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused. But they 
didnt uphold his complaint about the calls on 23 April 2019 and the security questions he 
was asked. They reviewed both calls and didnt think the service Mr W received had fallen 
short of the standards theyd expect. In respect of the refusal of his application for a credit 
card in 2017 they said this had been based on eligibility and credit scoring. So, Halifax said 
they were unable to agree there had been a bank error when it was declined.  
Our investigator reviewed the calls form 23 April 2019 and couldnt see that Halifax had 
made any errors and thought it was reasonable for them to take measures to ensure Mr Ws 
account was secure. He didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly by declining the 2017 
application for a credit card. And, in respect of the wrongful refusal of Mr Ws cheque in 
2015, he thought the compensation Halifax had offered was reasonable. So, he didnt 
require them to do anything further.
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He reiterated main complaint 
points and emphasised the most serious of his concerns was the refusal to allow access to 
his account on 23 April 2019 and he said the bank were blatantly lying about the content of 
the calls with him that day. He said this wasnt about money but rather justice. He thought 
banks were happy to take an individuals money and later dictate when they could have 
access to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W told us he expected this service to protect the individual and not side with the banks so 
I should make it clear, at the outset, the Financial Ombudsman Service is an independent 
and informal dispute resolution service. Its our role to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where appropriate. Ive noted he feels our investigator has sided with the 
bank and I want assure him Ive looked at everything afresh before reaching an independent 
view. Having done so, Im not persuaded this is a complaint I can fairly and reasonably 
uphold. Ill explain why, dealing first, with the issue that I understand has caused Mr W most 
dissatisfaction.
declined money transfer and blocked account
Its up to a bank to decide what security questions it asks of customers and not something 
with which this service would normally interfere. Ive listened to both calls. Having done so, 
like the investigator, I cant see that Halifax did anything wrong in the calls and dont think 
the measures they took to ensure his account was secure were unreasonable. In the first call 
the handler suggested ending it as Mr W expressed concerns about the nature of the 
information he was being asked to verify. But ultimately, they did so after Mr W used 
offensive language. Whilst its clear from the recording that Mr W was upset about the 
situation I cant say that was an unreasonable action by Halifax in such circumstances. And I 
think their response in the second call - to Mr Ws report of illegal activities  was in line with 
their responsibilities and reasonable. 
cheque issue in 2015
Its entirely up to Mr W when he raises a complaint. But I think its unreasonable to complain 
about the length of time its taken to receive compensation for the 2015 incident, when Mr W 
only raised this in a complaint in 2019. I think Halifaxs response, when it was brought to 
their attention, was prompt and proportionate. As theres nothing before me to show Mr W 
suffered a financial loss as a result, I think the compensation is fair and reasonable. And its 
the sort of award Id have suggested had it not already been offered. So, Im not going to ask 
Halifax to take any further action on this point.
refusal of credit card application in 2017
I can understand Mr Ws frustration at being declined for a credit card when he applied in 
2017. And that this frustration can only have been aggravated as, he says, he applied after 
he was bombarded with invitations to apply from Halifax. But, ultimately, Im afraid its a 
commercial decision for Halifax who they lend to and on what terms. So thats not something 
wed generally get involved in. 
Mr W accused our investigator of bias towards Halifax because he concluded that they had 
dealt with this complaint fairly and had done enough in settlement of the matter. Im sorry 
that Mr W thinks this. But I think our investigator adequately explained to Mr W, in a clear 
and fair way, why he reached the conclusion he made.
Given how strongly Mr W feels about the issues he may want to pursue the matter further 
through other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve his 
dispute with Halifax informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman