DRN-3882109
The complaint
Mrs R complains Skipton Building Society didnt explain her type of savings account was no 
longer offered to new customers, and that there were better rates available.
What happened
Having discovered her savings account interest rate was low, Mrs R complained to Skipton 
that they hadnt told her they offered higher rates on other accounts. 
Skipton said they had written to Mrs R in April 2020 to let her know the interest rate on her 
account was being lowered. Since then, they had sent her a number of letters inviting her to 
have a financial review and advertising other products with increased rates. 
Mrs R didnt think this was good enough so referred her complaint to our service.
 
An Investigator considered the circumstances of Mrs Rs complaint. In summary, he said, he 
felt Skipton had treated her fairly as it was for Mrs R to review her account and decide 
whether to move the funds elsewhere to obtain a better rate. 
Mrs R didnt dispute receiving the letters but didnt agree with the Investigator. She remained 
unhappy she hadnt been told individually and explicitly that her account was no longer 
available to new customers, and she could get a better rate on a similar newer product.
 
As Mrs R didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses are required to give customers reasonable notice of any material 
change to the interest rate on savings accounts. Im satisfied Skipton did that when they 
wrote to Mrs R in April 2020 (a copy of which Ive seen) to let her know the interest rate 
applicable to her account was being lowered. This letter also invited Mrs R to get in touch 
with Skipton if she wanted to review her accounts or find out about other savings accounts 
they offered. 
Its up to Skipton to decide what interest rates they offer to different types of customers. 
Skipton werent obliged to specifically tell Mrs R they didnt offer her particular account to 
new customers anymore or that she could earn better rates on accounts being offered to 
new customers as she suggests. So I dont find Skipton made a mistake by not doing so in 
Mrs Rs case. 
Mrs R thinks this is an attempt to conceal the different interest rates available to new and 
existing customers. But Skipton did send other letters to Mrs R giving information about their 
financial review service and other savings products  including products offering higher 
rates. It was for Mrs R to review her accounts and she could have requested further 
information from Skipton about more favourable rates at any time. 
Overall, I find Skipton has treated Mrs R fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman