DRN-1207078
 
The complaint
Mr E complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Homeserve) damaged his roof when it made a 
temporary repair under his home emergency cover. 
What happened
Mr E noticed water leaking into his home through the roof and reported it to his home 
emergency provider, Homeserve. Its engineer checked the roof and reported that there were 
splits all over the flat roof. Homeserve covered the roof as a temporary repair and told Mr E 
he would need to contact his insurer to arrange a complete repair.
After a night of heavy rainfall, Mr E reported to Homeserve that his roof was leaking again. 
Homeserve checked the roof and said it would attempt to reseal the temporary repair. It 
explained again that he needed to contact his insurer about a full repair. A few weeks after 
its visit, Mr E complained to Homeserve because he felt it had damaged his roof when 
carrying out the temporary repairs. He said it had caused further leaks. Homeserve asked an 
independent surveyor to inspect Mr Es roof. The surveyor reported that Mr E had a new flat 
roof so there was no way of knowing whether Homeserve damaged the old roof. The 
surveyor also said that because Mr E replaced the full roof, it was likely to have been in a 
poor state of repair before Homeserve attended. In light of this report, Homeserve didnt 
uphold Mr Es complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint for the following reasons:
It was fair for Homeserve to rely on information provided by the surveyor because it 
is an independent surveyor which regularly carries out this type of work;
It was reasonable that the surveyor couldnt see evidence of damage caused by 
Homeserve because the roof had been replaced and photos didnt show evidence of 
poor workmanship;
because the full roof was replaced, its likely that the damage was already extensive 
and unlikely to have been caused by Homeserves temporary repair, and
Homeserve acted in line with the terms and conditions of the home emergency cover.
 
Mr E didnt agree. He didnt have anything more to add to the original evidence but he asked 
for a further review.
The complaint is now with me to decide. 
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint and Ill explain why.
When looking at this complaint I thought about what happened, whether thats what 
shouldve happened and whether Mr E lost out as a result.
Firstly, both parties agree that water leaked through Mr Es roof and caused damage. Both 
parties also agree he had a valid claim under his home emergency cover with Homeserve 
and that Homeserve carried out a temporary repair in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. From here the parties disagree. Mr E says Homeserve damaged his roof resulting 
in further leaks. Homeserve and the independent surveyor say the roof needed replacing 
due to deterioration and the temporary repairs wouldnt have changed that. 
The terms and conditions of the home emergency cover state:
If a security or roofing incident happens, we will protect your property from further damage 
or make sure the property is secure (or both)
Examples of what we will cover
Use of tarpaulin to protect the property if roofing tiles are blown off during bad 
weather
 
Homeserve covered the roof and nailed the covering into place. I am satisfied that 
Homeserve did what it shouldve done.
Mr E says Homeserve caused further damage, so Ive looked at the independent report. The 
surveyor says the photos show splits on the flat roof and the fact that Mr E replaced the full 
roof indicates that it had reached the end of its serviceable life. The surveyor goes on to say 
it couldnt see any additional damage caused by Homeserves temporary repair but, 
regardless of whether it did cause damage, Mr E needed to replace the roof anyway. The 
surveyor also reported that damage inside the house caused by the second leak didnt need 
any more repairs than already needed because of the first leak.
So, there isnt any evidence that Homeserve damaged the roof when completing the 
temporary repair and the surveyor says it wouldnt have made matters any worse even if it 
had. I think this is a reasonable conclusion and it was fair for Homeserve to rely on the 
surveyors report as a true description of Mr Es roof. I dont think Mr E lost out because of 
Homeserves actions.
I am satisfied that Homeserve responded to Mr Es complaint appropriately and that it 
doesnt need to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman