DRN-1433123
The complaint
Mr M has complained about La Parisienne. He isnt happy about the way it dealt with a claim 
under his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M made a claim through his insurance broker after he was involved in an accident. The 
broker referred him to an accident management company as it was believed the accident 
wasnt Mr Ms fault. 
The accident management company looked into the claim and tried to claim against the 
other driver. Mr Ms car was written off, but it transpired that the car that hit him had cloned 
number plates. So Mr M was referred back to his insurance company La Parisienne and it 
looked to advance the claim. 
As Mr M was a taxi driver the delay in advancing his claim was costing him financially so he 
looked to repair his car himself so that he could get back to work. But La Parisienne said his 
car was no longer a write off. This was because it had a preferential repair rate with the 
repairer (the same company that wrote off Mr Ms car in the first place) and that meant that 
the car was economically repairable, just. But La Parisienne then said that it wouldnt pay a 
cash-in-lieu (CIL) payment to Mr M as he couldnt provide copies of any invoices or 
maintenance work. So Mr M complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. She didnt think it was 
fair for La Parisienne to withhold payment. So she asked it to pay Mr M a CIL payment and 
provide a letter to explain that Mr Ms car hadnt been written off so that he could approach 
the DVLA to get any markers removed.
As La Parisienne didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular 
circumstances of this case is for La Parisienne to pay Mr M a CIL payment. Ill explain why. 
I know La Parisienne feel that to pay Mr M a CIL payment may amount to betterment and I 
can understand why. But it is clear from photos that Mr M has recently provided that the car 
has been repaired although I accept that Mr M may well have got friends and family to help 
and may have got parts by cheaper means than its repairer may have been able to. But La 
Parisienne did get an assessment done of the damage and it knows the cost to repair the 
car. Indeed, it had a preferential rate with its chosen repairer, so I dont think Mr M couldve 
got it repaired for much less than that in any event. 
Given the level of damage sustained to Mr Ms car, which wasnt his fault, it would feel very 
harsh for La Parisienne to not meet his claim. Indeed, La Parisiennes repairer wrote the car 
off initially and allowed Mr M to keep the car while it looked into things. It is only because of 
the preferential repair rate that La Parisienne decided that his car wasnt a write off and I can 
understand why Mr M got on with repairing the car in order that he could get on the road and 
continue working. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require La Parisienne to 
pay Mr M a cash-in-lieu payment in line with the sum set out by its engineer. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman