DRN-3507788
The complaint
Mr A complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) lent to him
irresponsibly. He says the lending was unaffordable for him.
What happened
Mr A opened a catalogue shopping account with Shop Direct April 2016. It had an initial
credit limit of £250. He opened a second one in November that year with a credit limit of
£500.
Mr A says that Shop Direct shouldnt have provided him with the credit because it was clear
that he had financial difficulties. He says he was struggling on a very low income which was
less than he needed for his essential expenditure.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr As complaint. They didnt think Shop Direct had done
anything wrong in its initial lending decision or in the following credit increase. But they did
think that Shop Direct hadnt taken action quickly enough to help Mr A when it became
obvious that he was struggling. The adjudicator said that action should have been taken in
December 2017 to prevent Mr As financial situation deteriorating further.
Mr A agreed with this view but Shop Direct didnt. It said that it wasnt reasonable to say that
it should have intervened in December 2017. It says that it wasnt clear until June 2018 that
it should have done anything to help Mr A and that when it did become clear it took steps to
help including suspending interest and charges where possible.
Because Shop Direct didnt agree, the case was passed to me to make a decision. When I 
reviewed the case I came to a slightly different conclusion to the adjudicator. I thought that 
Shop Direct should have intervened later  in June 2018. 
I wrote to both parties to explain this and invited their comments. Mr A agreed with my 
decision. Shop Direct repeated that it didnt allow Mr A to spend any more on his account 
from June 2018 and it agreed to refund the interest and charged applied after June 2018. 
However, it didnt think there should be a requirement to update Mr As credit file as it 
considered its lending proportionate. Because Shop Direct didnt agree with the way I 
proposed it should put things right, I have issued this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Mr As complaint. Having done so, 
I came to a different conclusion to our adjudicator. I think that Shop Direct didnt have a 
reason to take any action until June 2018. Ill explain why I have reached
this decision.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, Mr As lending history and Mr As income and expenditure.
Shop Direct says it completed checks when opening Mr As accounts and that it made
checks each month when it reviewed his lending limits. It says these show that when Mr A
applied for his credit that it didnt see anything that should have stopped it lending to Mr A.
Specifically, Shop Direct told Mr A in its final response to him that the checks it conducted
included information provided by a credit reference agency. I think that such a check was an
appropriate and proportionate step for Shop Direct to take.
Shop Direct has provided a copy of the outcome of those checks to this service. When Mr A
opened the first account he had no CCJs and no accounts currently in default. However, the
information also suggests that Mr A had only had four months in the preceding 24 months
where he hadnt been in arrears in other credit accounts. I think this should have caused
Shop Direct to make more enquiries of Mr As financial circumstances. But although we
asked Mr A to supply copies of his bank statements and his credit file from the time he
wasnt able to do this. So I dont know what Shop Direct would have seen if it had done more
checks.
When Mr A opened his second account in November 2016 he had more credit available to
him elsewhere, but he was managing his first account well, with no arrears or late payments.
Shop Direct hasnt supplied the same data about the checks it did for this account opening,
but even at its best Mr A would only have had a maximum of eleven months where he hadnt
been in arrears in other accounts in the preceding two years. Again, it would have been
appropriate and proportionate for Shop Direct to have made further checks in these
circumstances, but I dont have further information from Mr A to help me understand his
financial position at the time.
In November 2016 Shop Direct increased Mr As credit limit on his first account to £750. I
dont know what checks were done at this stage. But it wasnt a very large increase and Mr A
had been managing his first account well up to that point, paying more than the minimum
repayments required in each month. And it continued in this way for some time.
In January 2017 Shop Direct reduced Mr As credit limit on his second account from £500 to
£425 and in February 2017 it reduced Mr As credit limit on his first account from £750 to
£675. In June 2017 it reduced the credit limit on Mr As second account again, to £375. And
in October 2017 it reduced the limit further to £250.
Its not clear why Shop Direct did this, because Mr A was still managing his payments well.
He was not in arrears and he was meeting or exceeding his minimum repayments each 
month. Its likely that Shop Direct saw something in its external checks which raised concern,
but it hasnt provided these checks. Again, I cant know what was happening in Mr As
finances because I dont have any records from him.
Our adjudicator thought that by December 2017 Shop Direct should have taken action to
prevent Mr As situation becoming worse. They thought this because Mr As balance on his
first account was over its credit limit by about £50 and because he was also using about
80% of his credit limit on his second account. They thought that as Mr A wasnt reducing his
balance significantly that this should have been the point at which Shop Direct intervened.
Shop Direct disagrees. It said Mr A only went over his limit because Buy Now, Pay Later
(BNPL) interest of £111.27 became due. Shop Direct said it doesnt deduct potential interestfrom a consumers credit limit made available to them because this would be unfair. And Mr
A wasnt charged for going over this limit. Within two months Mr A brought his account back
under the limit.
Shop Direct said that it wasnt fair to say Mr A was also using a very high proportion of his
credit limit because Shop Direct deliberately reduced his credit limit to prevent further
spending. I agree.
In June 2018 Mr A missed the minimum repayments on both accounts. Mr A contacted Shop
Direct and set up an arrangement to pay £15 on one account and £10 on the other. He paid
this for two months, but he made no further payments. in October 2018 Mr A contacted Shop
Direct to inform them that he had been speaking with a debt management company.
However no further repayments were made on either account and in December 2018 Shop
Direct sold Mr As debt to an external debt recovery agency.
I think at the point Mr A contacted Shop Direct it should have taken steps to show
forbearance to Mr A. I appreciate it did this by allowing lower minimum payments for two
months, however it is not clear whether it froze Mr As account or stopped charging him
interest or administration charges. Shop Direct said that it did this where possible, but I
cant see that it did this on both accounts, or why it would not have been possible. In 
responding to my provisional decision Shop Direct did not comment further on this.
Shop Direct, in its response, repeated that it did not allow Mr A to make further purchases 
after June 2018. I accept this was the case, but it is not relevant to how it managed his 
existing debt. I think it should have stopped making administration and interest charges on 
both accounts in June 2018 when Mr A told it he was struggling to meet the repayments and 
manage his debts.
Putting things right
As I uphold this complaint in part, I think to put things right it is fair and reasonable for Shop
Direct to refund any interest and charges incurred by Mr A on both accounts since June
2018. This is because I think Shop Direct should have frozen Mr As accounts at that time.
To reflect this Shop Direct should:
remove all charges and interest (including BNPL interest) incurred on the accounts
since June 2018.
Work out how much Mr A would have owed after the above adjustments. Any
repayment Mr A made since June 2018 should be used to reduce the adjusted
balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to Mr A
along with 8% simple interest* calculated from the date of overpayment to the date
of settlement.
If after all the adjustments have been made Mr A no longer owes any money then all 
adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the credit file
from June 2018.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, Shop Direct should look to arrange an
affordable payment plan with Mr A for the outstanding amount. As the debt was sold
to a third party, Shop Direct must either repurchase the debt or liaise with the third
part to ensure the above steps are undertaken. Once Mr A has cleared the balance,any adverse information should be removed from the credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr A a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
Shop Direct has indicated that it does not agree that the credit file should be updated as I 
have described above because I have not found that any credit limit increases were unfair 
and Mr A did not experience any detriment as a direct result of its lending decisions. 
However, I am satisfied that adjusting his credit file in the way I have described above is fair 
and reasonable. It reflects the point at which Shop Direct should have shown forbearance to 
the extent I consider appropriate and it only need be adjusted if Mr A would no longer owe 
any money once the adjustments to take account of that lack of forbearance have taken 
place. 
  
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr As complaint and direct Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to put 
things right in the way I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman