DRN-4501561
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) rejected his claim 
against it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
Mr W bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2018. The purchase was 
funded by a loan from Omni, and that business is therefore liable for the misrepresentations 
and/or breach of contract of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr W 
alleges that the supplier misled Mr W into believing that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought the complaint 
should be upheld because she didnt think the documents from the time of sale were clear 
enough to demonstrate that it had been made clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding. 
Instead, she felt it was fair for Mr W to rely on what he was being told verbally which was 
that the system would be self-funding. She felt Omni should therefore put things right by 
restructuring Mr Ws loan and only charging him the benefits he would likely receive over the 
term of the loan.  
Omni disagreed for the following reasons: 
It said the estimated benefits were clearly set out as were the costs which would 
have made it clear the system wasnt self-funding. 
Mr W didnt raise any concerns about the benefits he was receiving for many years 
and only did so after his representative raised such concerns. 
 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, it was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 17 November 2023, I set out why I was minded to not 
upholding the complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may 
wish to make before I reached a final decision. Omni appeared to accept my findings and 
made no comments. Mr W replied reiterating that he thought the loan costs would be 
covered by the benefits of the system which included a combination of the payments 
received for the energy generated from the system and savings made on his energy bills. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Omni agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr W could claim against Omni, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr W and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of Omni. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, currently, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr W was provided with the sales documents and that he wouldve seen 
these at the time of sale, as he has signed the documents.
The estimated returns document is only one page long and sets out the benefits that can be 
expected from the system. It was signed by Mr W on 3 October 2018, so I think he wouldve 
seen this figure. The document sets out that Mr Ws total annual estimated benefit is 
£255.40. 
Mr W also signed a validation document on the same day. This set out his expected loan 
costs. 
This shows Mr Ws loan was for 120 months (i.e. 10 years), and his monthly payments were 
£71.10. Neither one of these documents are particularly long, and the facts and figures were 
not hidden away in small print. 
Normally the sales paperwork reflects the discussions consumers had with the sales advisor, 
so it looks like the sales advisor discussed both Mr Ws costs and estimated benefit with him. 
I think its apparent (without doing any calculations) that to repay a loan for £5,000 over 10 
years, Mr W would need at least £500 per year to cover the cost of just the credit element of 
the loan. And his first year benefit of £255 falls significantly short of that without even 
considering the interest on the loan.
As explained above, the validation sheet also showed his monthly payments were around 
£71. I think its apparent 12 payments of £71 is significantly more than the annual benefit of 
approximately £255. So, I think its clear that the system benefits wouldnt be sufficient to 
cover the cost of the loan. 
As mentioned above, none of these figures are hidden away in small print, but are, in my 
view clearly visible. And Mr W has signed each one of these documents  so, I think he 
wouldve, at the very least, seen them when he signed the documents. If Mr W had been told 
something different, on being asked to sign these documents, I would have expected him to 
have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he did, so I think that 
suggests that the documents most likely did not contradict Mr Ws understanding, at that 
time. And the documents show the system isnt self-funding. I also think its unlikely that the 
supplier would ask Mr W to sign these documents which show such a considerable shortfall 
and at the same time verbally give him figures to the contrary  or assure him the system 
would be self-funding without any explanation as to how that shortfall would be made up. 
Omni says Mr W also signed the credit agreement the same day  which showed the total 
amount payable including finance charges was £7,756.40. His credit agreement also shows 
his monthly payment was only £65.43 (rather than the £71 in the validation sheet). From my 
experience of these cases, the difference in cost is usually if the finance provider uses a 
different interest rate than the supplier expected. But again, I think its clear that to repay 
£7,756.40 over 10 years, Mr W would need £775.64 annually to meet the loan repayment  
which is over three times the annual benefit. And despite there being several weeks between 
Mr W signing the credit agreement and installation, Ive seen no evidence that Mr W tried to 
cancel or raise any concerns at the time.           
I understand the discrepancy in figures might have been confusing for Mr W  but that is 
only in relation to the monthly repayment figure and total amounts payable. The estimated 
returns document is very clear and was signed by Mr W. And this figure is so small in 
comparison to the monthly and total payable in both the validation sheet and credit 
agreement (both documents Mr W signed), that I think its apparent there would be a 
substantial shortfall between the benefit and cost. 
Overall, I think it would have been clear to him that the solar panels would not be self-
funding in the way he says he was told they would be. And I dont think its likely that he was 
led to believe the system would be self-funding, when the documents he signed, clearly 
display such a significant shortfall between the cost and the benefit. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Ws testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Mr Ws representative says that Omni didnt appear to do appropriate credit checks. But 
Omni says it carried out sufficient checks to assess his creditworthiness and looked for 
adverse information on his credit history for example. Omni says Mr W also declared his 
annual income and signed a declaration confirming that the information given was true. I 
havent seen any evidence that the loan wasnt affordable when it was granted to him.  So, 
while Ive thought carefully about this, I dont uphold his complaint for this reason. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Mr W to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint. So, I dont think Omni declining this claim was unfair. 
Mr W has reiterated that he was led to believe that the combined benefits, including savings 
on energy bills and income from the energy produced by the panels would cover the cost of 
the loan repayments. However, the total estimated benefit of £255  included both the 
estimated income he would receive for the energy produced (of just over £131) and 
estimated savings on Mr Ws energy bills (of just over £123). This is clearly shown on the estimated returns document mentioned above. So as explained in my provisional decision, 
the total estimated benefit was still only around £255 including both types of benefits and 
falls far short of what would be needed to maintain the annual loan payments. 
So, while Ive again thought about this complaint in its entirety, I am still not satisfied that 
theres sufficient evidence the system was sold to Mr W on the basis it was self-funding. 
Overall, Im still satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier 
that induced Mr W to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason 
to uphold this complaint. So, I dont think Omni declining this claim was unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman