DRN-3660320
The complaint
Mrs N and the estate of the late Mr N have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-
sold a number of packaged bank accounts. Their account history is as follows.
The joint account number ending 7268 was:
Opened as a fee-free bank account in September 1998
Changed to a fee-paying Gold account in December 2002, 
Changed to a fee-paying Platinum account in January 2004, 
Changed to a fee-free Classic account in January 2009
Changed to a fee-paying Premier account in July 2009, 
Changed to fee-free Classic account in May 2017
Lloyds have shown the joint account number ending 0868 was:
Opened as a fee-free bank account in June 1991
Changed to a fee-paying Premier account in January 2009
Changed to fee-free Classic account in July 2009
Lloyds have shown Mrs Ns sole account number ending 1768 was:
Opened as a fee-free bank account in June 1992
Changed to a fee-paying Platinum account in May 2007
Changed to fee-free Classic account in January 2009
From this point onwards I will refer to Mrs N and the estate of the late Mr N as Mrs N for 
readability.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed this complaint and they thought that Mrs Ns sole Platinum 
account that was taken out in May 2007 was mis-sold as it duplicated benefits held on the 
Platinum account (taken out in January 2004) that was held jointly.
One of our adjudicators then assessed the sale of the remaining accounts and they didnt 
think that Lloyds had mis-sold them. Mrs Ns representative did not agree with this and 
therefore this complaint was passed on for an ombudsmans decision to be issued.
This decision will only address whether the packaged bank accounts were mis-sold. I note 
that Mrs N is also unhappy with the way she was treated in relation to her overdraft and 
financial difficulties that she says she has suffered. As we have explained, if she remains 
concerned with this, she would need to direct these concerns to Lloyds to investigate in the 
first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mrs Ns complaint.
All accounts apart from the Platinum account taken out in May 2007
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened - based on the evidence that 
I have been provided with. With this in mind, and having considered everything that Mrs N 
and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this complaint about these accounts. I will 
explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mrs N was given a fair choice in taking out these 
accounts. Mrs N had held a fee-free account with Lloyds prior to the first upgrade. So I think 
that she wouldve been aware that fee-free accounts were generally available. I can see that 
Mrs Ns representative has mentioned that the accounts were taken out to improve her credit 
score and to obtain a credit card. But I cant see why the accounts would constantly be 
upgraded and then downgraded again if this was the intention. I say this especially as no 
credit card was ever taken out and I can see that loans were taken out prior to the first 
upgrade. So it seems unlikely that Mrs N took out these account to either get a credit card or 
improve her credit score. So overall, on balance, I think that Mrs N agreed to these accounts 
knowing she did not have to. 
These accounts were recommended to Mrs N. Given this, Lloyds had to ensure that they 
were broadly a reasonable fit for her circumstances at the time. Mrs Ns submissions to us 
suggest she did not travel, drive or have a mobile phone. But based on the benefits that 
were registered for or used by Mrs N over time - such as the breakdown cover, mobile 
phone insurance and the travel insurance, I think that she was able to make use of these 
benefits. I also can see that the interest free portion of the overdraft was used and I see 
nothing that wouldve prevented Mrs N from using the home emergency cover. So there is 
not enough for me to say that these Lloyds recommendation that she upgrade to the various 
packaged accounts was unreasonable. 
I accept that Mrs N may not have been told everything during the sales, about all of the 
benefits that all the accounts came with. But I have not seen anything specific about Mrs Ns 
circumstances, that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
upgrades, had she been given even more information about the benefits that the accounts 
came with. 
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what Mrs N mayve read 
recently about financial products being mis-sold, she may now believe that her accounts 
were mis-sold. But based on what Mrs N has said, alongside all of the available evidence 
that I have seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that her accounts were mis-sold in 
the first instance (apart from the one taken out in May 2007). 
The Platinum account taken out in May 2007
All parties agree that this account was mis-sold as it duplicated existing benefits that Mrs N 
already held, so Lloyds needs to do the following, which it has already agree to do, to put 
matters right:
Refund the account fees that were paid on the Platinum account taken out in May 
2007Pay 8% simple interest on those fees, calculated from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement, less deductible tax. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if asked for one.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think that Mrs N and the estate of the late Mr 
Ns packaged bank accounts listed above were mis-sold - except for Mrs Ns sole account 
Platinum account. I therefore uphold this complaint in part, and I have set out what Lloyds 
Bank PLC needs to do to put matter right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman