DRN-2059249
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Allianz Insurance Plc cancelled two pet insurance policies in error. 
What happened
Mrs E insured two of her pet cats with Allianz under cover for life schemes. In 2017 Allianz 
failed to collect direct debits for these two insurance policies and so the policies were 
cancelled as a result. Mrs E contacted Allianz about this mistake, and it agreed to reinstate 
the policies following payment of the outstanding premiums, which it reduced by 50% due to 
the error. Mrs E provided card details for the backdated premiums to be taken.
In March 2019, Mrs E made a claim for one of her pets and was told she didnt have an 
active policy. Allianz told Mrs E that despite agreeing to reinstate the policies in 2017, this 
hadnt happened  nor had any premiums been taken. Following Mrs Es complaint, Allianz 
offered her three options to resolve this issue:
Reinstatement of the policies from 2017 with backdated premiums charged at 50% 
or;
Set up two brand new policies so no outstanding premiums would need to be paid 
(but these policies wouldnt provide cover for any medical conditions already in 
existence) or;
Pay £100 in compensation if Mrs E didnt want to take out policies with Allianz.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs E brought the complaint to our service. She said that 
Allianz should increase the discount offered on the premium as she didnt think this took into 
account the continuation of the error from 2017 and the worsening situation it had caused. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think that Allianz needed to do anything 
more. She found that Allianzs offer to waive 50% of the premium was fair and reasonable 
as, had this error not happened, Mrs E would have had to pay full price for the policies. She 
also confirmed that Allianz had agreed that the claims for treatment for her pets would be 
paid following the reinstatement of these policies.
Mrs E disagreed with our investigators opinion. She said it was unfair that she was being 
asked to find 50% of the missing premiums, which she said was nearly £1000, before the 
policies would be reinstated and the claims paid. And there wasnt a guarantee that these 
claims would be met. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz has accepted it is to blame for failing to collect the premiums for these two policies 
and for cancelling the cover back in 2017. So, this is not in dispute. The complaint that I 
need to consider is whether I believe Allianzs resolution to this complaint is fair and 
reasonable, based on what has happened.
Mrs E purchased lifetime policies for her animals which meant that any conditions they 
started to suffer from whilst insured would continue to be covered by the policy. As a result 
of Allianzs error, Mrs E no longer had that protection so I think it is right that it put her back 
into the position she would have been in had this error not occurred in 2017. And this is what 
Allianz has offered to do by reinstating the policy for this period of time. 
Allianz has also waived 50% of the premium cost for that missing period, up until the date of 
its final response letter, in recognition of this mistake. Mrs E doesnt think that this is enough 
as Allianz offered this amount of discount when it made the initial mistake back in 2017. She 
says that, after this length of time, it should offer her a larger reduction. But I dont agree with 
her thoughts on this matter. Allianz has offered to provide the policy coverage for the missing 
period for half the cost  it is important to note that, had this error not occurred, Mrs E would 
have paid significantly more over this time for the same level of cover. Im satisfied Allianzs 
offer to waive half the cost is fair in these circumstances.
Mrs E has pointed out that she is being asked to repay this sum in full before the policies will 
be reinstated and the claims paid. She said this is unreasonable when the whole reason she 
took out the cover initially was to prevent any unexpected large bills relating to her animals. I 
have thought about this carefully as I appreciate this is quite a large sum for Mrs E to find. 
But the main reason for reinstating the policies is to provide Mrs E with the lifetime cover for 
her animals rather than to pay the claims  although Allianz has confirmed that it will be 
agreeing these costs. And I do need to bear in mind that Mrs E wasnt paying for the 
insurance since 2017, so she has had the benefit of these funds. Taking this all into account, 
I dont think that it is unreasonable for Allianz to request the payment to reinstate the policies 
before it pays the claims. If it is likely to prove difficult for Mrs E to pay the amount required, 
then she may wish to make contact directly with Allianz to see if they can assist her with a 
repayment plan.
Overall, Im satisfied that Allianzs offer to reinstate the policies at a 50% premium discount 
is fair and reasonable and Im not persuaded that it needs to revisit the discounted rate. The 
crux of the complaint has been in relation to the reinstatement of the policies and so that has 
been the focus of my decision, however, if Mrs E ultimately decides she doesnt want to pay 
these premiums, Allianz has offered her alternative solutions which she may want to 
consider.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman