DRN-2896347
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined a 
claim they made under their home insurance policy.
Mrs C has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to her only.
What happened
Mrs C noticed problems with the conservatory at the rear of her property. Its built at the top 
of a slope with a retaining wall at the foot of the slope. Mrs C also noticed the retaining wall 
was bulging outward and the ground making up the slope had moved downward.
Mrs C took advice from an engineer, W, who inspected the problem and provided a report. 
She made a claim and RSA appointed a loss adjuster, L, who also carried out an inspection 
and reported its findings.
L accepted there was damage caused by landslip and subsidence. But it declined the claim 
because it said the policy didnt cover damage caused by poor or faulty design.
Mrs C didnt think this was fair and complained. RSA maintained the claim had been fairly 
declined. Mrs C referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought RSA had acted fairly. He was satisfied RSA had shown the damage 
was caused by faulty design, and that meant RSA could reasonably decline the claim.
Mrs C said, in summary:
The property had been built by reputable builders, according to Building Regulations 
and had been signed off by Building Control.
When she bought the property, no concerns were raised by the surveyor.
Several experts were shocked the claim had been declined.
All ground movement claims could be declined for similar reasoning.
L had initially accepted the claim only to change its mind later.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs C considers L indicated the claim would be covered during its inspection 
but later changed its mind. Theres no evidence of exactly what was said verbally for me to 
consider. I havent seen anything in writing which suggested the claim was covered. So 
overall, Im not persuaded L accepted the claim and went back on its word later.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence or landslip, but not where it has been 
caused by, or has resulted from, poor or faulty design.
Mrs C has questioned whether this policy term could lead to all ground movement claims 
being declined. In my experience this kind of term is common in building insurance policies, 
but many subsidence and landslip claims are accepted by insurers. I dont think the term is 
unfair in principle. As with any policy term an insurer may rely on to decline a claim, its up to 
the insurer to show why its fair to do so in the particular circumstances of each case.
RSA has accepted there has been landslip and this has damaged the retaining wall. Its also 
accepted this landslip has caused the conservatory to subside. RSA has declined the claim 
because it says all of this damage is the result of poor or faulty design of the retaining wall. 
The key evidence is the reports of W and L. Ill summarise what both reports said about the 
cause of the landslip and subsidence problem  and whether this supports RSAs view that it 
was caused by faulty design.
W carried out calculations, based on the soil type and slope angle, to assess the stability of 
the slope as it was built (which it referred to as back analysis). It concluded the slope 
stability had been unacceptable and said the failure of the slope was inevitable.
The property had been standing for nearly twenty years at the time the damage was noticed. 
W found this timeframe unsurprising. It said the particular type of soil that made up the 
slope had a high strength in the short term  but the bonds which held it together tended to 
weaken over time when under stress, as was the case here.
L reached a similar conclusion about the reason for, and the timing of, the wall failure, noting 
the usual characteristics of the soil type. It didnt think the original builder or designer had 
undertaken an appropriate slope stability analysis. And whilst the retaining wall had helped 
to limit the soil movement to an extent, it was insufficient to prevent the problem completely.
Both reports were written by chartered engineers who are members of the Institute of Civil 
Engineers. Ws report was supported by calculations and technical diagrams. Ls was written 
with the benefit of the information prepared by W. No other reports have been provided to 
question the calculations or findings of W or L.
Im satisfied both reports have been written by people with the relevant expertise and based 
on a thorough consideration of the cause of damage, particularly Ws back analysis. Both 
have agreed the retaining wall and slope werent designed appropriately and failure was 
likely, perhaps inevitable, after a number of years.
For these reasons, Im satisfied the evidence provided shows the cause of the damage was 
likely to be poor or faulty design.
Where an insurer has shown an exclusion applies, it means the claim isnt covered by the 
policy. Im satisfied thats the case here. But Im required to take a second step and consider 
whether allowing the insurer to rely on that exclusion and decline the claim would be fair. 
Usually it will be, because the exclusions are part of the policy and the contract of insurance 
the policyholder has agreed to.
In cases like this, I may depart from that position if Im persuaded the policyholder was given 
appropriate reassurance that the structure in question was built to suitable standards. 
Relevant information from the builder or Building Control may fulfil that.Whilst Mrs C says the property was built by a reputable builder, I havent seen any evidence 
to show what design, such as slope stability analysis, was carried out to ensure it was likely 
to be stable in the long term. Nor have I seen any evidence to show the retaining wall and 
slope satisfied Building Regulations and Building Control requirements. 
Mrs C provided L with a copy of the mortgage valuation and environmental searches carried 
out before she bought the property.
The valuation includes a section which says there are no factors which create a significant 
risk of future structural movement. Whilst this may have given Mrs C reassurance about the 
general stability of the property, I dont think it commented directly on the wall and slope  or 
indicated they were likely to have been designed and built to a suitable standard. And I note 
the valuation says its unlikely to be adequate for the purchasers purposes and shouldnt be 
relied upon.
The environmental search said it didnt identify any ground stability factors. This appears to 
be an assessment of the likelihood of there being nearby underground features that might 
impact stability, such as coal mines or natural cavities. And it noted that a survey would be 
more appropriate to identify local conditions. So whilst it gave a degree of reassurance about 
some ground stability factors, I dont think indicated the slope was likely to be stable.
Having considered the information provided, for the reasons above, I havent been 
persuaded it would be unfair for RSA to decline the claim.
My decision is based on the evidence available to me. If Mrs C were to take expert advice 
and/or provide information to show the structure was built to suitable standards, Id expect 
RSA to consider whether that changes things.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman