DRN-1612642
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited have refused to pay for treatment and a 
prosthesis. 
What happened
Mr P broke his leg and there was a complication due to infection. This meant that his leg was 
amputated to prevent the spread of infection. He received treatment via the NHS and had a 
lengthy stay as an inpatient. 
He received a cash benefit from BUPA for his hospital admission but they said they wouldnt 
fund a prosthesis and associated outpatient physiotherapy as it wasnt covered under the 
policy. Mr P says, in summary, thats not clear from the policy documentation and that its 
misleading. Mr P complained to BUPA but they maintained theyd declined the claim in line 
with the policy terms. 
Mr P complained to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt 
uphold Mr Ps complaint. He thought that BUPA had declined the claim in line with the policy 
terms. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said that the guide 
was unclear and didnt match what was in his version of the guide. So I need to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The relevant policy terms and conditions
Mr P says that the information BUPA has given him doesnt match up with the paperwork he 
has. Ive checked and the guide BUPA has provided is for the relevant policy year when Mr 
P claimed, which is the 2018/2019 policy year. Mr Ps amputation took place in June 2019 
and the policy year ended in August 2019. 
I can see that Mr P called about the prosthesis and treatment a few days before the renewal 
date. So, Im satisfied BUPA has assessed the claim in line with the correct policy terms. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Benefit 3.2.7 prostheses and appliances
We pay recognised facility charges for a prosthesis or appliance needed as part of 
your day-patient treatment or in-patient treatment. 
We do not pay for any treatment which is for or associated with or related to a 
prosthesis or applicant that you are not covered for under your benefits. 
A prosthesis is defined as: 
Any prosthesis which is on our list of prostheses for both your benefits and your type 
of treatment at the time you receive your treatment. The prostheses on the list may 
change from time to time. Details of the prostheses covered under your benefits for 
your type of treatment are available on request. 
The policy criteria for outpatient therapies says: 
We pay therapists fees for out-patient treatment when you are referred for the out-
patient treatment by your GP or consultant or where we have told you that a GP 
referral is not required for your condition, by us.
The policy only covers treatment for acute conditions and excludes treatment for chronic 
conditions. A chronic condition is defined as: 
A disease, illness or injury which has one or more of the following characteristics: 
It needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, 
examinations, check-ups and/or tests
It needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms 
It requires rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it 
It continues indefinitely 
It has no known cure 
It comes back or is likely to come back. 
Has BUPA unfairly declined the claim?
I dont think BUPA has declined Mr Ps unfairly because: 
The policy has limited cover for prostheses and I think the policy terms are clear that 
this benefit is limited to certain circumstances
When Mr P made his claim he wasnt a day patient or an in-patient receiving 
authorised treatment from BUPA. So, the only way hed be able to successfully claim 
is if he met the policy criteria for out-patient therapy and charges
Mr P wasnt experiencing any specific or active symptoms which required out patient 
treatment at the time he asked BUPA to fund his therapy and the prosthesis. So, I 
dont think he met the criteria for out patient treatment either. Ive not seen evidence 
of a referral from a GP or consultant and the evidence Ive been provided with 
suggests that one was not provided to BUPA In any event, I dont think it was unreasonable for BUPA to decline to fund the 
treatment on the basis that it was a chronic condition. Thats because following the 
injury and amputation Mr P was likely to require ongoing rehabilitation, care and 
treatment. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman