DRN-3709185
The complaint
Mr V has complained about Covea Insurance plc. He isnt happy that it wouldnt deal with a 
claim under the windscreen part of his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr V made a claim under the windscreen part of his car insurance policy. But when Covea 
looked into things for him it wouldnt accept a claim under this part of the policy. This was 
because the claim was for his panoramic sunroof which was excluded under the glass and 
windscreen cover section of the policy. However, it would accept a claim for accidental 
damage under the general policy.
Mr V wasnt happy about this as he felt the damage to his panoramic view should be dealt 
with under his windscreen cover which only incurred a £75 excess as opposed to a £400 
excess under the main policy. So, he complained to Covea and then this Service.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr V but didnt uphold his complaint. He didnt think 
Covea had done anything wrong. This was because he thought the policy was clear that 
panoramic roofs werent covered under the glass and windscreen part of the policy.
As Mr V didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr V, but Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Vs frustration and disappointment as he simply feels that Covea should 
deal with his claim under the windscreen cover part of his policy and he feels the policy is 
ambiguous. But I have to be fair to both sides when I consider a complaint and I think that 
Coveas policy is clear.
I know Mr V would like to claim under the glass and windscreen part of his policy for the 
crack to his panoramic roof as it carries less of an excess (£75) as opposed to a claim under 
his policy. And I know it is getting bigger causing worry and stress. But I agree with our 
investigator that the policy clearly explains Damaged or broken glass in panoramic roofs 
isnt covered under the windscreen cover part of the policy.
I can see Covea have offered to consider a claim under the accidental damage part of the 
policy which seems fair. I know this carries a higher excess payment, but Mr V was aware of 
the excess when he took out the policy and agreed to it. Insurers generally have deals in 
place with windscreen providers to deal with windscreen damage and claims. I cannot tell 
Covea what it can and cant consider under its policy or interfere with its commercial 
decisions. And panoramic roofs incur significantly higher costs (often taking up a large part 
of the roof of the car) and I dont think it follows that it would be presumed that the 
windscreen cover part of the policy would automatically cover a panoramic roof. 
So, I know Mr V feels it is unfair for Covea to turn down the claim, as he feels it would cover 
a sunroof, but I dont think the policy is misleading about this. The documentation clearly 
explains that Damaged or broken glass in panoramic glass roofs isnt covered under the 
relevant section (What is not covered under section 4) and I dont think this is 
ambiguous. And given the particular make and model of Mr Vs car I think it is pretty clear his 
car had a panoramic roof as opposed to a sunroof in any event. 
Given all of this, I dont think Covea have acted unreasonably in offering to consider the 
claim under the accidental damage part of the policy only. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman