DRN-3712827
The complaint
This complaint is about an interest-only mortgage Mrs and Mr B hold with Bank of Scotland 
plc (BOS). Theyre represented here by Mr C; the main points of the complaint, in summary 
are that BOS:
issued possession proceedings on two occasions. On the last occasion, it halted those 
proceedings without explanation leaving Mrs and Mr B in a state of limbo and gave rise 
to worry and anxiety due to uncertainty;
failed to acknowledge or reply to correspondence from Mrs and Mr Bs solicitors;
failed to acknowledge or reply to correspondence from Mrs and Mr B; and
has continued to pursue statute-barred interest. 
Other issues that formed part of the original complaint have been withdrawn.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr B, Mr C and BOS. Im 
also aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mrs and Mr B being identified. Instead Ill provide a brief summary and then focus 
on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint, or 
because it fell outside my remit. 
Mrs and Mr B have long-standing arrears on their mortgage. BOS sought a possession order 
in 2014; this was granted but later struck out after it was established in a separate court case 
that BOS had made a procedural accounting error in the way it calculated the monthly 
payments on mortgages in arrears. Remediation work was carried out on affected accounts 
(Mrs and Mr Bs included) following guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA).
In 2017, BOS wrote saying it was planning to enforce the 2014 court order, but when 
Mrs and Mr B complained, it accepted this was a mistake as it related to a different property. 
BOS did recommence legal action in 2019 but later paused it after identifying some possible 
irregularities in the afore-mentioned remediation work. Before that could be resolved, the 
FCA stopped all repossession activity by lenders due to the COVID-19 pandemic. That 
wasnt lifted until April 2021, by which time this complaint had started. BOS has stayed 
further action whilst we considered the complaint.
When our investigator looked into the case; he issued a view in which he made the following 
findings:
The correspondence in 2017 shouldnt have happened but the possession proceedings 
in 2014 and 2019 werent unfairly started or paused, given the wider circumstances.
BOS didnt deal fairly with correspondence from Mrs and Mr Bs solicitors in 2019, or with 
correspondence from them directly in 2020. For these shortcomings, he re said BOS 
should pay Mrs and Mr B £300 compensation.
Its for a court to decide if BOS is statute-barred from charging and pursuing repayment 
of interest. But the legal action for possession wasnt unfair.
Mr C asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
FCA. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing 
that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us. On that latter point, my attention was drawn to 
Mr Cs most recent email to the investigator, in which he said:
The fos is being asked to consider whether the lender is treating the clients fairly by 
continuing to pursue a time barred debt. I hold a degree in consumer law and do not need 
your guidance. (sic)
The guidance to which Mr C was objecting was the investigator steering him back to what 
he had already explained in the view, which was that Mr C was asking us to make a ruling 
that was outside our remit. 
It seems sensible for me to start there, by confirming, quite simply, that the premise on which 
Mr C hangs the main thrust of this complaint is something that only a court can decide. That 
being so, the fairness or otherwise of BOS action in starting  and then pausing  
possession proceedings in 2014 and 2019 respectively is more simply decided than its been 
made to look, once all the peripheral issues have been put to one side. 
On both occasions, the conduct of the account warranted possession action starting; there is 
no dispute that Mrs and Mr B were in serious arrears. Everything has a context, and there 
that context is that Mrs and Mr B stopped paying their mortgage in 2013, and have never 
resumed paying it. Thats nine years ago, and they still live in the mortgaged property. On 
that point, in response to Mr Cs allegation that BOS has made Mrs and Mr Cs position 
worse, Im obliged to consider what they might have done differently to mitigate their 
situation. 
I understand the mortgaged property is currently worth less than the outstanding mortgage 
balance, but it hasnt always been. Mrs and Mr B have known for a long time (or if they 
didnt, I think they should have) that they were living in a house they couldnt afford. In that 
context, I consider it more likely than not that they will have had  and failed to take up  an 
opportunity to sell it at a time they could so and still repay all of the money they owed BOS. 
Im required to decide what is fair and reasonable, and no one has the right to live in a house 
they cant pay for.Getting back to the possession proceedings, both were halted for a valid reason, largely 
beyond BOS control. In the earlier case, it was paused due to a court order the impact of 
which was industry-wide, resulting in a remediation directive from the FCA. In the later case, 
the proceedings were initially paused to check for a possible error in the remediation and 
then stopped altogether by the FCAs response to the pandemic.
That leaves the shortcomings in BOS response to correspondence from Mrs and Mr Bs 
solicitors, and from them directly. Having considered all the wider circumstances, and the 
extent to which Mrs and Mr Bs current situation might have been materially different if BOS 
had dealt with the correspondence more effectively, I agree with the investigator that £300 is 
fair compensation. 
Mrs and Mr B dont have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
BOS will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mrs and Mr Bs right to take legal action against BOS over the subject matter 
of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it. 
Mrs and Mr B wouldnt necessarily have to initiate court action themselves. In the event BOS 
resumes possession action now that this complaint has been determined, Mrs and Mr B (or 
Mr C on their behalf) would have the opportunity to present their arguments, including all 
those that we have no power to decide, to the court to take into account when arriving at its 
decision.
I think it is also important to explain here that lenders will generally agree to put recovery 
action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, as BOS did here, but they dont have to and we 
cant force them to. If the Financial Ombudsman Service had that power it would undermine 
our impartiality between the parties to a complaint. It would also create the potential risk of 
consumers using our service to bring complaints with the intention of obstructing businesses 
that were trying to take legitimate action through the courts to recover money owed to them. 
I do not wish to alarm Mr and Mrs B, but I would not want them to be under any 
misunderstanding that we would tell BOS that it must suspend any recovery action in the 
event of any new complaint being raised with our service.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part only. In full and final settlement, I direct Bank of Scotland plc 
to pay Mrs and Mr B £300. I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman