DRN-2685354
The complaint
Ms R complains about a joint life assurance policy she took out with her ex-husband with 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
What happened
In 2003 Mr R and Ms R took out a joint life assurance policy with Aviva.
 
In 2013 Mr R and Ms R separated. Ms R said she then thought the premiums had stopped 
being paid and the policy had lapsed. It wasnt until 2020, when there were court 
proceedings to discuss financial arrangements between her and Mr R, that she found out the 
life assurance policy was still in place.
Ms R then approached Aviva and asked for the policy to be cancelled or for her to be 
removed from the policy as an insured party. She also told Aviva that there was a history of 
domestic abuse between her and her partner.
In response, Aviva wrote to Mr R (as the other policyholder) and explained Ms R wanted to 
cancel the policy - it asked him to call if he wished to cancel the policy, as it would need his 
agreement. Mr R didnt agree to this and he continued to pay the premiums for the policy. 
Aviva expressed sympathy for Ms Rs situation but said it couldnt take any action unilaterally 
to cancel the policy, without Mr Rs consent. Ms R then complained to Aviva but it didnt 
change its decision.
Ms R didnt think this was fair and so she brought her complaint to our service. She told us it 
was incredibly distressing to know that someone who had previously been violent towards 
her could benefit financially from her death. She thought it was unreasonable that Aviva 
wouldnt remove her from the policy and allow Mr R to continue with a single policy (one that 
would pay a claim in the event of his death). Ms R told us she thought Mr R was continuing 
with the policy to maintain a degree of control over her.
Aviva told us that if it were to cancel the policy without a legal basis, it would be open to 
being sued by both parties. It highlighted that it must remain impartial in disputes between 
the parties and that Mr R may have reasons for wanting the joint policy to continue, for 
example, children shared with Ms R.
Our investigator ultimately decided that Aviva hadnt acted unfairly. Whilst she empathised 
with Ms Rs situation, she noted this was a legally binding contract which Aviva didnt have a 
basis for breaking, without being subject to legal action for doing so.
Ms R didnt agree with this view and so she asked an ombudsman to look at everything 
again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was genuinely saddened to read what Ms R told our service about her history and the 
impact of this on her. I hope after reading this decision, Ms R can understand why, having 
considered everything, I am not upholding her complaint despite my empathy for her 
circumstances.
My role here isnt to make a decision about Ms Rs dispute with Mr R, but to look at whether 
Aviva has acted reasonably in dealing with Ms Rs complaint. Ultimately, when Mr R and 
Ms R took this policy out with Aviva a legal contract was formed. The terms and conditions of 
this contract are legally binding on all parties. I cant see that there are any terms and 
conditions within the policy that allow Aviva to end or change this contract in the current 
circumstances, without the consent of the other parties. Mr R has not agreed to cancel or 
alter the contract and he continues to pay the premiums. Whilst he is meeting his obligations 
under this contract, Aviva has no legal basis to take the action Ms R has asked it to take. 
So Ive then considered whether it would, nevertheless, be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances to direct Aviva to break this contract anyway.
 
I acknowledge that this is a very difficult situation. Ive carefully considered what Ms Rs has 
said about her concerns regarding Mr Rs motivation for keeping the policy. Ms R believes 
an exception could be made given the situation. In particular, she feels a single policy could 
be offered to Mr R which would mean there was no detriment to Mr R following the 
cancellation of the joint policy. The difficulty I have is that I cannot make any conclusions 
about Mr Rs reasons for wanting this policy to continue without Mr R having the opportunity 
to comment. Im aware Ms R has told us Mr Rs finances are such that he has no need for 
this policy, but to rely on this without giving Mr R the opportunity to respond wouldnt be fair. 
Mr R isnt party to the complaint - so he hasnt had a chance to do this. Whilst I empathise 
with Ms Rs concerns, and have decided to review her complaint without Mr R being party to 
it, I cant fairly conclude that Mr R would be no worse off if Aviva was to provide him with a 
single policy because I dont know his reasons for retaining this joint policy. So, I dont think 
Aviva has been unreasonable in not making an exception here.
Taking everything into account, I consider Aviva's decision to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. There is nothing in the terms of the contract that allow Aviva to cancel on 
Ms R's instructions. And I have no way of knowing the thoughts of Mr R - who has paid the 
premiums for the policy for some time, and continues to do so, and is entitled for the policy 
to continue. Given this, I have no evidence to persuade me to ask Aviva to break its contract 
with Mr R, which it has explained it is not otherwise entitled to do.
I appreciate this decision will come as a significant disappointment to Ms R. But our service 
can only look into Avivas actions and not the broader situation that doesnt involve Aviva.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman