DRN-3873433
The complaint
Mr W complains that Ageas Insurance Limited declined a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W had a classic car insurance policy with Ageas. In June 2022 he told Ageas his car had 
been stolen from his property. Mr W provided some details but Ageas said it needed more 
evidence that he owned the car, and more information to be able to value it. Mr W 
questioned what more he could provide and he complained when the conversation became 
heated in one of the calls. 
In its response, Ageas said that it needed certain information to validate Mr Ws claim and 
without that information it was unable to consider the claim any further. It set out some of its 
concerns, particularly some discrepancies around who had bought the car and when. It 
noted that the car had been uninsured prior to its policy, despite its high value, which it 
thought was unusual. Ageas also noted that although Mr W had said he couldnt provide any 
images of the car because his phone had been destroyed, it thought he should be able to log 
into his Apple or android account and retrieve those photos. Mr W remained unhappy and 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Ageas had reached a fair outcome on Mr Ws complaint. They 
agreed that hed provided conflicting information and he hadnt been able to provide proof of 
purchase. They thought Ageas had acted fairly and in line with the terms of Mr Ws policy. 
Mr W wasnt happy with our investigators view. He said hed gone to considerable lengths to 
get the original V5 certificate and purchase receipt from the person hed bought the car from. 
He asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about whats happened, as in this case, I base my decision on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence available. Youll note 
that I havent commented in this decision on all the evidence provided but I have carefully 
considered it.
The starting point with any insurance claim is for the policy holder, in this case Mr W, to be 
able to prove their loss. This means Ageas needs to be reasonably satisfied that the loss 
and circumstances of the claim happened as Mr W has claimed. My role is to decide if 
Ageas has acted fairly and reasonably in declining to consider Mr Ws claim any further.
When Mr W first contacted Ageas in June 2022, he said hed bought the car he was claiming 
for. He said hed had it for some time and he couldnt remember when hed bought it 
because it had been that long since hed had it. He said it was a private sale so there was no 
receipt and hed bought three cars from the same person at the same time. 
Mr W initially provided the V5 certificate for the car. That said Mr W had acquired the car in 
June 2021, just a year before he reported it stolen. A few weeks later Mr W said his father 
had bought the car and as hed now passed away he couldnt provide evidence of how hed 
bought it. Mr W later provided the old V5 document, which he said hed obtained from the 
previous owner. That said Mr W had bought the car in January 2019. Mr W also provided a 
handwritten note of the purchase, which he said hed also obtained from the seller. That was 
also dated January 2019. 
Its a confusing and inconsistent account of whats happened and I think it was fair for Ageas 
to ask Mr W to provide further evidence to show he owned the car. It asked for a full service 
history for the car, but Mr W said that had been in the glove compartment of the car. Ageas 
asked for photographs, but Mr W said that although he used to have lots of photos, hed 
accidentally ran over and broken his phone, so he couldnt access them. Mr W did provide a 
couple of photographs of the interior of the car but they didnt help to prove ownership.
Mr W provided an MOT certificate for the car thats dated July 2021. That might give some 
indication of the condition of the car. But it doesnt show any details of the owner of the car. 
Ageas has also pointed out that the V5 document is not proof of ownership. It says as much 
in bold at the top of the certificate. To prove ownership, Ageas said Mr W would need some 
sort of receipt or invoice from when he bought it, which would ideally detail the date of sale, 
the amount paid and the method of payment. 
As Ive said, Mr W has now provided a handwritten receipt, which indicates that he bought 
the car for cash in January 2019. But when we shared that with Ageas, it said it was still not 
prepared to cover the claim. It said the old V5 certificate could have been completed at any 
time. It said there was no photographic evidence linking Mr W to the car and no trail of 
money to show that Mr W (or his father) had bought it. Ageas also noted that Mr W had said 
hed bought three cars at the same time from the same person, but the note of the sale 
makes no mention of those other cars. 
I think its fair for Ageas to want to understand how Mr W paid for the car. And as he said he 
paid in cash, to provide a bank statement showing the total amount for the car being 
withdrawn from his bank. Bank statements are usually available for several years so I think 
its reasonable for Ageas to ask Mr W to provide more evidence that he paid the amount 
shown on the hand written purchase receipt.
Ive listened to the calls Mr W made to Ageas when they shared their concerns with him. And 
from what Ive seen and heard, I dont think their concerns are unreasonable or without 
basis. Ageas also gave Mr W fair opportunities to clarify some of the details of this claim. For 
example, it explained the sort of evidence it would need to see, and suggested ways Mr W 
might be able to retrieve photographs of the car from his damaged phone.
As Mr W hasnt been able to satisfactorily clear up the discrepancies that surround his claim, 
hes been unable to prove his loss. It follows that there is no claim for Ageas to consider. I 
recognise Mr Ws strength of feeling but, in light of the evidence Ive seen, I dont think 
Ageas has treated him unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman