DRN-2276067
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them a life 
assurance policy.
Mr and Mrs Hs son acted as their representative in bringing this complaint but, for ease, Ill 
refer to all actions and comments as those of Mr H. 
What happened
Mr H took out a joint mortgage for around £34,000, over a term of 25 years in 1985 with 
Barclays. He was required to take out a life assurance policy to cover the cost of the 
mortgage and so a decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy was taken out. The life policy 
was taken out with a third-party insurer, with Barclays acting as broker. 
Mr H took out another joint mortgage with Barclays in 2002. The mortgage amount was 
£225,000, taken out over 20 years. A level term assurance (LTA) policy was taken out to 
cover the mortgage. The policy started around March 2002 and premiums cost £135.26 per 
month. The life policy was taken out with a third-party insurer, with Barclays acting as broker. 
Mr H submitted a complaint about both life policies to Barclays in 2019. He initially thought 
these were payment protection insurance (PPI) policies. Mr H complained that the policies 
were presented to him as a condition and a pre-requisite of being able to take out the 
mortgages with Barclays. 
Barclays responded to Mr Hs complaint and confirmed these were not PPI policies. Barclays 
said it was satisfied the DTA policy taken out in 1985 was appropriate. It said at the time it 
was a condition of Barclays mortgages that consumers should hold a suitable life policy for 
the amount and term of the loan. It said if Mr H had not wanted to proceed with the policy 
then the mortgage would not have been granted.  
Barclays said Mr H met with one of its advisors in 2001 and a fact find that recorded Mr Hs 
personal and financial circumstances, as well as his answers to questions, was completed. It 
said the only area of financial need Mr H wanted to discuss was protecting his mortgage. 
Barclays said the record of recommendations indicates life cover was not a condition of this 
lending. And Barclays said it hadnt seen any evidence to suggest Mr H was told life cover 
was a condition of the mortgage. 
Barclays said there may have been a good reason for selecting an LTA policy, but it couldnt 
see that the cost of a DTA was recorded. And so it said it couldnt be confident that Mr H had 
been given enough information to make an informed choice. Barclays said if Mr H had 
known the cost of the DTA he might well have chosen this option. The third-party insurer 
confirmed the DTA would have cost £90.52 per month and so Barclays offered to refund the 
premium overpayments of £44.74 per month from 1 March 2002 to 1 November 2016, along 
with statutory interest. Barclays also offered £150 to Mr H for delays in dealing with his 
complaint. 
Mr H was unhappy with the response from Barclays and complained to this service. He said 
he hadnt seen any of the fact find documentation relied on by Barclays when it responded to 
his complaint. He said this was an internal document that he hadnt seen or signed. Mr H 
said if he had been given the option of not taking out cover, and he thinks this option should 
have been offered to him during the meeting, then he wouldnt have taken it out. And this 
was because his budget was stretched at the time and he said some of the documentation 
from Barclays reinforces this. Mr H said there was a flawed assumption that he would have 
taken out protection in all circumstances. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He said it was reasonable for the Barclays 
advisor to recommend that Mr H take out a life assurance policy, given his circumstances 
and that he was taking out a mortgage. Our investigator also said Mr H might have thought, 
prior to the meeting with the advisor, that he had to take out life cover in 2002, given that it 
was mandatory in 1985. But he said there was nothing to suggest Mr H was mis-led about 
the policy being mandatory in 2002. 
Mr H didnt agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
Mr H initially submitted this as a PPI complaint and made references to Barclays and to this 
service about what he described as the poor levels of conduct existing during this period, 
which I took to mean the period of time when some PPI policies were being mis-sold. So I 
want to first of all emphasise to Mr H that the life policy he complained about is different to a 
PPI policy and this complaint has not been looked at in the same context. 
Although Mr H complained to Barclays about the policy taken out in 1985, he didnt complain 
about that earlier policy when he brought his complaint to this service. So this decision will 
deal only with the sale of the policy that began in around March 2002. 
For me to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that Mr H was told explicitly or 
was in some other way led to believe that he wouldnt be offered a mortgage with Barclays if 
he didnt take out the life policy arranged through it. Its my understanding that Mr H agrees 
he wasnt explicitly told during the meeting with the Barclays advisor that he needed to take 
out a life policy. Rather, Mr H said it was the way the information was presented to him 
during the meeting that led him to believe he needed to take the policy out.
Mr H said that under no circumstances would he have taken this policy out if he hadnt 
thought he needed to, in order to get the mortgage. And, from Mr Hs perspective, this 
means it must have been suggested to him that he needed to take it out. Ive taken this into 
consideration but on its own its not enough to say the policy was mis-sold. 
Having looked at the information provided by both parties, I cant see that theres any 
evidence to suggest Mr H was misled by the advisor into believing that the policy was 
mandatory. In fact, Im satisfied that Barclays presented Mr H with enough information for 
him to know that taking out the life policy was optional. I dont know whether or not the life 
policy was discussed in the meeting with the advisor because I wasnt there, but the 
paperwork provided to Mr H indicates the policy was not mandatory. And this is enough for 
me to be satisfied the policy wasnt mis-sold.  I know that Mr H said he didnt see any of the fact find information or the recommendation 
report at the time he took out the policy and so doesnt think its fair for Barclays to rely on 
this now. Ive taken on board what Mr H said about not having seen or signed this paperwork 
and so Ive put it to one side when making a decision in this case. But I would add that this 
doesnt mean I doubt the veracity of the contents of this paperwork, as I can see that other 
information in it is an accurate reflection of what Mr H has said about his circumstances at 
that time. 
Ive also seen the mortgage application paperwork and this contained a section about life 
assurance. This said Barclays strongly recommended that its customers arrange and 
maintain life cover throughout the term of the mortgage. It went on to say Barclays could 
arrange a no obligation consultation for customers who want to take out life cover, and 
provided a box for customers to tick if they didnt want this consultation to happen. Mr H 
didnt tick this box. 
Im satisfied that this section, which I think was clearly worded and prominent enough within 
the application paperwork, made it clear that life assurance was not mandatory. Im also 
satisfied that Mr H had sight of this paperwork, as he signed it in four different places. It 
might well be the case that Mr H didnt read the paperwork in its entirety. But I just need to 
be satisfied that Barclays provided him with the information, which I am. It was then up to 
Mr H to read it, or not, as the case may be. 
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think it would be fair for me to say that Mr H was 
misled about a life policy being mandatory if he wanted to take out a mortgage with Barclays. 
Mr H hasnt complained about the advice given during the meeting with the Barclays advisor. 
But, for completeness, Ive looked at whether the advice and recommendations made by the 
advisor were appropriate, taking Mr Hs circumstances into consideration. 
And I think that the LTA recommended by the advisor was not the most appropriate policy. I 
say this because Mr H mentioned to the advisor that he had investment properties that could 
be used to provide an income for his dependant child if necessary and so the advisor noted 
that no extra life cover can be recommended. So, in that case, a DTA was the more 
appropriate policy as this would have decreased in line with the mortgage and would most 
likely have covered it in full in the event of a claim being made. So it was not necessary to 
offer the more costly LTA, when the advisor had already suggested Mr H didnt need this 
additional cover.  
Barclays has already dealt with the issue of the incorrect policy being recommended to Mr H. 
It said, in its final response, that Mr H wasnt provided with the cost of the DTA policy and so 
didnt have all of the information he needed to make an informed choice between the LTA 
and DTA policies. And so Barclays has refunded the difference between the two premiums 
and added statutory interest. And Im satisfied that this is enough and that Barclays doesnt 
need to take any further action. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman