DRN-4098747
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy Amtrust Europe Limited withdrew cover for a legal expenses 
claim theyd made.  
What happened
In April 2021 Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their legal expenses insurance with Amtrust. 
This related to a professional negligence claim they wanted to bring against tax advisers. 
During a review of their financial arrangements in February 2021 their accountants told them 
a family trust theyd been advised to set up in 2008 didnt provide any benefit. And they 
should pursue a negligence claim against the advisers who suggested they do this. 
Amtrust initially turned down the claim as it thought Mr and Mrs B were aware of the act or 
omission giving rise to it prior to the start date of this policy (July 2020). Mr and Mrs B 
provided further information and, having obtained counsels opinion, Amtrust accepted Mr 
and Mrs B werent (and shouldnt reasonably have been) aware of the potential negligence 
prior to taking out the policy.  It agreed to cover the claim. But if said if it subsequently came 
to light Mr and Mrs B did have knowledge of potential negligence prior to the policy inception 
date it would withdraw cover. 
As counsel also confirmed the claim had reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of 
the policy) matters progressed. In September 2022 the panel solicitors acting on the case 
provided an update to Amtrust and included a further counsels opinion on the issue of when 
limitation expired. The panel firm drew Amtrusts attention to a number of points in relation to 
policy coverage and Mr and Mrs Bs date of knowledge. Having reviewed those Amtrust said 
the latest counsels opinion does seem to cement the most likely date of knowledge as 1st of 
November 2019. It said it would be withdrawing cover for the claim. 
Our investigator didnt think Amtrust had acted fairly. She accepted it was entitled to rely on 
legal advice and the September 2022 email from panel solicitors did flag issues relating to 
policy coverage. But that advice (and the further counsels opinion) werent materially 
different to the information Amtrust had when it agreed to cover the claim in August 2021. 
She thought Amtrust should reinstate cover for the claim (and cover any claim related legal 
costs Mr and Mrs B had incurred since it was withdrawn). 
Mr and Mrs B agreed with her outcome and made some further points in support of their 
position. Amtrust didnt agree. In summary it said:
It thought if the claim had been declined at the outset it would have been criticised for not 
allowing Mr and Mrs B the benefit of the doubt and carrying out a proper investigation 
before coming to that decision. It agreed funding for the claim while that further 
information was obtained. 
The second counsels opinion was formed following further disclosure of information and 
supported the original assessment. And the panel solicitors advised there was now 
additional support for the argument the claim pre-dated the policy and cover should be 
withdrawn.
If we were suggesting the claim should have been rejected following the first counsels 
assessment then it should have the right correct that mistake and withdraw cover 
following the further advice from counsel. If that was the case Mr and Mrs B would have 
received a large amount of legal advice and cover under the policy which Amtrust had 
funded and which they werent entitled to.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Amtrust has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Amtrust has relied on the pre inception term in the policy which says cover wont be 
provided for any actual or alleged act or omission or dispute happening before, or existing 
at the start of cover under this section and which the insured believed or ought reasonably to 
have believed could lead to a claim under this section.
The act or omission which is the subject of this claim is the alleged negligence by Mr and 
Mrs Bs tax advisors when setting up their family trust. That took place in 2008 so was 
clearly prior to the start date of this policy which was July 2020. The issue is therefore when 
Mr and Mrs B believed (or ought reasonably to have believed) that issue could lead to a 
claim on this policy. 
Amtrust initially turned down the claim because it said Mr and Mrs B were aware of the tax 
liability which prompted their negligence claim in September 2018. Mr and Mrs B challenged 
that decision and provided a chronology setting out what had happened. Amtrust 
provisionally accepted the claim on 16 July 2021 and said it would refer the matter to panel 
solicitors for further assessment. 
So I agree at that point it had only accepted the claim subject to legal assessment and any 
further investigations required for that assessment. But the following month, and having 
obtained and provided counsels opinion, the panel solicitors asked Amtrust if it would fund 
the litigation (including a fee to issue proceedings). I think by that point the assessment 
Amtrust asked for had been completed. And Amtrust agreed to fund the claim. It didnt ask 
for any further investigation into when Mr and Mrs B were aware of the potential claim and 
said ultimately, as you say, neither us, you, or counsel have seen evidence that the 
insureds were aware, or ought reasonably have been aware of potential negligence before 
the policy inception of 19th July 2020. 
Amtrust did make clear that its position on funding was on the proviso Mr and Mrs Bs date 
of knowledge of potential negligence was August 2020 at the earliest. And it said if came to 
light they had pre-existing knowledge of potential negligence prior to the policy starting it 
would withdraw cover. 
The complaint Mr and Mrs B have made is about Amtrusts subsequent decision to do so. 
Given what it said when agreeing cover I think its fair to take into account whether that was 
because information it wasnt previously aware had come to light. If that was the case I think 
Amtrust would, in principle be entitled to withdraw cover given it made its position on this 
clear when agreeing funding. The difficulty for Amtrust is that I dont think there was materially different information 
available to it in September 2022 compared to August 2021. Ive reviewed the second 
counsels opinion which identifies the only new and material piece of information as a 
description by the other sides solicitors of a letter to HMRC (in August 2018) which it doesnt 
appear Mr and Mrs B were aware of. Counsel says my view on limitation remain as set out 
in my previous advice albeit he goes into more detail as to the exact date that might expire.  
When the panel solicitors wrote to Amtrust enclosing that opinion and drawing attention to 
policy coverage issues they didnt suggest this was new information. In fact they referenced 
the initial counsels opinion of August 2021 and points theyd made in an email sent to 
Amtrust at that time. But Amtrust decision to agree cover was taken having reviewed the 
August 2021 opinion and after considering the points the panel firm made about this. So, 
while Amtrust would have been entitled to withdraw cover if information it hadnt previously 
been aware of had come to light, I dont think thats the case here. 
Amtrust has said if we thought the original claim acceptance was wrong it should be allowed 
to correct that mistake. However, Im considering in this decision whether it was fair of it to 
withdraw cover for the reasons it gave. Amtrust hasnt accepted in its response to the 
complaint or to us that its original decision was wrong. 
In fact, as I understand it, Amtrust believes its decision to accept the claim was correct and it 
only withdrew cover when new evidence became available. Its told us it followed the advice 
provided to us by solicitors, and I cannot agree it was incorrect for us to do so. However, for 
the reasons Ive explained I dont think the position as put forward by counsel and solicitors 
was materially different in September 2022 from that in August 2021 (when Amtrust 
accepted the claim having reviewed the legal advice). And so I dont think its decision to 
withdraw cover for the reasons it gave was correct or fair.  
Putting things right
Amtrust will need to reinstate cover for the claim and cover this (subject to it continuing to 
meet the remaining terms and conditions of the policy). It will also need to cover any 
reasonable and necessary claim related costs Mr and Mrs B incurred during the time cover 
was withdrawn. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Amtrust Europe Limited will need to put things right by 
doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman