DRN-4089321
The complaint
Miss S complains that Close Brothers Limited (trading as Close Brothers Premium Finance) 
failed to identify her when she phoned it, and changed the description of her direct debit.
What happened
In March 2022 Miss S took out a credit agreement with Close Brothers to fund her purchase 
of a home insurance policy with Swinton Insurance. Under the agreement she was to pay 
Close Brothers £17.70 a month for eleven months, starting in April 2022 and expected to 
end in February 2023. She was making these payments by direct debit, and on her bank 
statement these payments showed up as CLOSE-SWINTON.
In January 2023, Miss S checked her bank account and saw something (it turned out to be a 
cancelled direct debit) which was described as Close Brothers Ltd. She says she didnt 
recognise it, and she didnt know who that company was. She was very concerned that there 
might have been an attempt to commit fraud on her account. She phoned Close Brothers 
motor finance department to ask about it, but they were unable to identify her at first, 
upsetting her further. Close Brothers called her back and explained that it related to her 
policy with Swinton Insurance.
Miss S complained about that the name on her direct debit appeared to have changed, and 
also complained about Close Brothers not recognising her when she first called. Close 
Brothers wrote to her and apologised for its call handler not having been able to identify her 
on the original call. In a further letter it explained that this had happened because its motor 
finance department did not have access to records of its premium finance customers. It also 
said that Miss Ss direct debit had been cancelled in January 2023 by Swinton Insurance, 
who had paid the rest of the money owed under the credit agreement. Close Brothers did not 
uphold her complaint about how this had appeared on her bank account.
Miss S brought this complaint to our service, but our investigator did not uphold it. She 
thought that an apology was good enough for the problem on the phone call. And she 
thought that Miss S should reasonably have been aware that Close Brothers had been 
funding her insurance policy, because it had sent her correspondence telling her that in 
March 2022, and Miss S had signed a credit agreement with them. Miss S asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it, for broadly the same reasons as my colleague gave.
I have seen the credit agreement. It says Close Brothers Premium Finance in large letters 
at the top. It goes on to name Swinton Insurance as the insurance broker. Miss S has signed 
it. She must also have signed a direct debit mandate to Close Brothers at the time. I have 
also seen Close Brothers welcome letter, direct debit details and payment summary, which 
all have its name and logo on them. So I think that Close Brothers did enough to inform her 
that it had provided her with credit to pay for her policy.
It appears that on 18 January 2023 Miss S decided to pay her final instalment to Swinton 
Insurance, who had therefore cancelled her direct debit and forwarded her payment to Close 
Brothers. The cancelled direct debit showed up on her bank account as belonging to Close 
Brothers Ltd, and as having been originally set up on 20 March 2022 with the first payment 
on 4 April 2022, and cancelled on 18 January. If Miss S did not recognise it for what it was, 
then that is not Close Brothers fault.
I think that an apology is an adequate response for what happened on the phone call.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman