DRN-2348900
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK plc (Barclays) converted a payment in euros to 
sterling when he had wanted to receive the funds in euros. He says Barclays did this without 
his consent.
Mr S also unhappy that Barclays didnt tell him about the option of a euro account.
Mr S wants Barclays to refund the conversion fee.
What happened
Mr S was due to receive funds from Malta. He says that he wanted to keep the funds in 
euros. 
He had a number of conversations with Barclays, with whom he has two sterling accounts. 
As Mr S didnt have a euro account, they discussed whether to have the funds sent in euros 
and converted by Barclays or converted first to sterling and then sent. The option of opening 
a euro account was briefly discussed.
Mr S gave instructions for the funds to be transferred to one of his sterling accounts in euros. 
After the funds were sent, Mr S called Barclays to set up a euro account. He asked if the 
funds could be paid into that account, but Barclays explained that it would take at least three 
days to open the account. And as Mr S had given his sterling account details to the sending 
bank and the money was on its way, it wasnt possible to change the receiving account.
   
Mr S was unhappy that the euro account hadnt been mentioned earlier. He wants Barclays 
to refund all conversion charges.
Barclays offered Mr S £50 as compensation for not making Mr S aware of the euro account.
 
Mr S was unhappy with the offer and brought his case to this service. Our investigator 
listened to the recordings of Mr Ss conversations with Barclays and did not think Barclays 
had done anything wrong. Mr S wasnt happy with this, so the case has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened to the calls between Mr S and Barclays to understand what happened. Mr S 
has also had access to the calls.
  
Mr S was due to receive a payment of 22,294.39 euros from Malta, which was a legacy from 
his late mother.  He called Barclays several times in February 2020 to discuss the payment.
Based on what I have heard on the calls, Mr S was trying to work out if it would be better to 
have the funds transferred in euros and converted by Barclays into sterling or converted first 
so that it arrived in sterling.
  
The adviser on the first call suggested that the funds be sent in sterling, explaining that there 
would be a conversion charge if it arrived in euros. The adviser said he was transferring the 
call to the International Team, but from what I can see, the call didnt go any further.
Mr S called Barclays again about a week later, and discussed which currency his funds 
should be sent in.  Mr S was worried that if the sending bank did the conversion, it might give 
him the wrong rate. The adviser suggested he ask both banks for their rates so that he could 
decide which was better. Mr S then said his instinct was to have the money sent in euros 
and have the exchange conducted by Barclays.  The advisor said this was a good idea in 
case the sending bank would charge more.  He said that Barclays would automatically 
change the money into pounds. From what I could hear, Mr S was happy with this.
Mr S then asked if hed need to warn Barclays that he wanted to open a euro account. The 
adviser said no, and that the money would automatically be transferred and converted, but 
he could open a euro account as well if he wanted. The adviser didnt give Mr S any 
information about a euro account, which I think would have been helpful at this point. But Mr 
S said hed have the money sent to his main account and would tell the sender he was 
happy to have it sent in euros.
Mr S says that no-one clarified the fact that a conversion would be required. But I heard 
conversion discussed several times, and Im satisfied from the discussion that Mr S 
understood the money would be converted by Barclays into sterling. 
Mr S adds that Barclays converted the funds without his consent. But I cant agree with him. 
I have taken account of the terms and conditions, which form the contract between Mr S and 
Barclays. They include the following term which states that funds will be converted into the 
currency of the account:
 Well convert the payment into the currency of your account using an exchange rate, made 
up of a reference exchange rate (which changes to reflect currency market movements), to 
which we may add a margin. You can ask us for an indication of the rate at any time, but as 
the exchange rate changes to reflect currency market movements, we wont be able to tell 
you the actual rate until we receive the payment. You can find our current exchange rate by 
calling us or asking in branch.
Mr S says that the calls reveal that he was seeking advice as to the wisdom of keeping the 
money in euros, rather than converting it into sterling. I can understand that this was what he 
had in mind, but he didnt talk about this with Barclays. The discussions during the calls were 
about whether it was better to convert the funds before or after transferring them, so I dont 
think Barclays would have been aware that Mr S was really looking for advice about keeping 
the money in euros. After the payment was sent, Mr S called Barclays to discuss opening a 
euro account.  Mr S asked if the payment could go to his euro account, but it was too late for 
this to happen. 
Given what I have heard on the calls, Mr S understood and agreed that the transaction 
would be converted into sterling, so I dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to refund the 
charges. 
Barclays has offered Mr S £50  if on reflection he wishes to accept this he may do so by 
contacting them direct. However, given my overall conclusions, and as on the calls before 
the transaction, Mr S didnt suggest that he wanted to keep the funds in euros, or to transact 
in euros to avoid conversion charges, Im not going to require Barclays to do anything more.I know Mr S will be disappointed, but this now brings to an end what we can do. I hope he 
can understand my reasoning.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman