The complaint
Mr T says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr T took out an PPI policy with a mortgage in 1991. The policy provided cover for Mr T in 
the event of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr T didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is likely to have happened in light of the available evidence 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case. 
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below. 
 Mr T has provided evidence to show that the PPI was a condition of the mortgage. In
its original submissions Nationwide wrongly thought this wasnt the case, but has since
accepted that the PPI was a compulsory part of the borrowing. Theres nothing wrong with a
lender making PPI part of the overall borrowing  thats a commercial decision and one I
wouldnt challenge.
As such, Mr T had to take the cover to get the mortgage he wanted. It seems he was 
prepared to accept the condition, and it formed part of his contract with Nationwide. If Mr T 
didnt want the PPI, he had a choice to turn down the mortgage offer and find a different 
lender. This means I dont consider the compulsory nature of the PPI meant it was mis-sold.
 Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr T so it didnt have to check if it was
suitable for him. This means it didnt have to ask any questions about other ways he
mightve had to make him repayments.
But in any event, the PPI was linked to Mr Ts borrowing. So he had to buy it, despite the 
sick pay and savings he says he was entitled to. 
DRN-1649922 The cost of the PPI was set out in the mortgage offer Nationwide provided to Mr T.
So I think Mr T wouldve known how much he would be paying for the policy and found it
acceptable. The policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont
think Mr T wouldve made a different decision about proceeding with the mortgage if better
information about the PPI cost had been available.
 Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But
Mr T doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. And the fact the PPI was
compulsory, whether there were any restrictions or not, meant Mr T still wouldve had to buy
the policy to get the mortgage he wanted. So I dont think better information about the policy
wouldve changed Mr Ts decision.
Which means Nationwide doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr T about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell
Mr T, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Nationwide has also refunded some overpaid premiums to Mr T, which I also think is fair. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman