DRN-4177789
The complaint
Mr P complains that he wasnt able to deposit money into his account at a branch of National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) as its machines werent working which meant he had to 
queue instead. Mr P says after waiting an hour he left without completing the transaction as 
his lunch break was nearly over. Mr P is also unhappy with the call waiting times and wants 
to be compensated for loss of time and added mental stress. 
What happened
Mr P holds an account with NatWest. During his lunch break he visited a branch of NatWest 
to deposit money. Mr P says the deposit machines were down which resulted in long queues 
for customers waiting to be seen at the counter. After an hour of queuing Mr P says he gave 
up and left without depositing his money.
Mr P complained to NatWest about this and the branch being understaffed. Mr P says he 
was late back to work because of this, not able to take his lunch and out of pocket for travel 
costs. Mr P was also unhappy with the call waiting times he experienced before being 
connected to an agent to raise his complaint.
NatWest says it wasnt able to confirm any incidents regarding all the deposit machines 
being down on the day in question but accepts Mr P was inconvenienced and the call wait 
times were longer due to a technical issue. NatWest compensated Mr P by crediting his 
account with £30 on 2 April, £20 on 5 April and a further £50 following its final response 
letter dated 15 April (£100 in total) for the distress and inconvenience suffered.
Mr P was dissatisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns and explained that as a service we are 
not the regulator, rather we are an informal dispute resolution service and it isnt our role to 
tell a business how to conduct its banking activities. They thought the compensation 
NatWest had already paid Mr P was reasonable for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the situation and didnt think NatWest needed to do anything more to resolve the 
complaint.
Mr P disagreed, he says the situation has caused serious deterioration of his health and 
wants further compensation of £100. Mr P has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Mr P has experienced and see if NatWest has done 
anything wrong or treated them unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr P back 
in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mr P complains that NatWest failed to accommodate his banking needs when he visited a 
branch on a busy day and is unhappy at the call waiting times he experienced when raising 
his complaint. He says this has caused his health to deteriorate and wants to be 
compensated for travel costs and time wasted. 
Mr P has provided us with evidence of medical conditions he suffers from. I sympathise with 
Mr P, but I note he suffered from these conditions before the visit to NatWests branch to 
deposit money. So although I accept the wait time experienced at the branch may have 
exacerbated his health conditions, I think any number of things through normal day to day 
living could do this and I dont think it would be fair to penalise NatWest for this.
I appreciate Mr P lost his lunch hour waiting in a queue to deposit money, but he hasnt 
provided any evidence to show he has lost out financially due to not being able to deposit 
money during his lunchtime. NatWest has already paid £100 compensation in total for the 
inconvenience caused  which I think is fair - as things dont always go smoothly and I dont 
think the detriment Mr P suffered warrants further compensation. 
So overall and having considered everything, I think what NatWest has already done to 
settle Mr Ps complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman