DRN-1808054
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that American Express Services Europe Limited wont allow 
it to have a basic international currency charge card.
What happened
The director of E who represents it says he has a sterling basic business card in the name of 
E. The Amex website shows that there is a basic currency card available too. But the 
application form only allows him to put in his personal details in an application and not those 
of E. And when he contacted Amex it confirmed this is the position. He says that it is 
misleading to describe there being a business card available. E does not want to have to 
pay a fee for a green or gold currency card when it does not value the additional benefits. 
Amex said it had not made a mistake but paid £50 for the time taken to deal with the 
complaint.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. The basic card could be 
used for business purposes. We wouldnt be able to require Amex to offer a basic currency 
card in a limited companys name even though it did that for the sterling card.
E did not agree. It said it was being forced to apply for something it did not want. Its 
suppliers wouldnt accept payment using a card in the personal name of the director. E 
maintained that Amex cannot market a card as a business card and not allow it to apply for it 
in its own name. It wanted this to be considered by an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the issue here entirely and I dont consider it necessary to obtain any other 
information or speak to the director of E about this. I want to make clear that we provide 
informal dispute resolution and do not act as the regulator.
Based on the Amex website screenshots and other information provided it seems to me that 
the same basic currency charge card is included under both a personal and business 
heading. But it is not possible to apply for this in a limited company name. I accept this 
means for E, a separate legal entity to this director, that it cannot have this card. Were an 
individual say a sole trader then that might not be the same position. In any event Amex do 
not restrict the use of the card only to making personal payments. So, it is presented as a 
card that can be used for business purposes. And I think the key information relating to any 
application thats attempted makes clear what the limitations of it are and who can apply for 
it. So, its a matter for a potential applicant to decide if this product is appropriate.
Its not here as if E went through an application process and got a product that wasnt 
appropriate. So, although I understand the frustration of its director that E cant have an 
equivalent free non sterling charge card thats something just not offered by Amex. And Im 
afraid thats a commercial decision Amex had made, and I wont be interfering with that.
I dont have a reasonable basis to find Amex has made a mistake or should do anything 
more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman