DRN-3785532
The complaint
Miss A complains Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly handled her claim for legal expenses 
insurance (LEI). She considers Aviva to have poorly handled her claim, including delays and 
incorrectly authorising solicitors fees which resulted in her indemnity fund being used 
disproportionately. 
For ease, any reference to Aviva includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Miss A sought to make a claim under her Aviva LEI policy.
In November 2017, Miss A provided new information. Miss A was seeking to pursue 
a legal claim in relation to an escape of water which had damaged her property. 
Aviva appointed its panel solicitor firm (Solicitor A) to reassess the claim. 
By mid-November, Solicitor A provided a prospects of success assessment in Miss 
As favour in respect of a nuisance claim but not for outstanding service charges. So, 
Aviva agreed to cover the nuisance claim. 
In January 2018, Solicitor A confirmed the leak was coming from the flat above Miss 
As property and that a legal claim would be pursued against the leaseholder. Based 
on this, Aviva authorised further funding. 
The leaseholder disputed the leak was coming from their property, so Solicitor A 
sought further funding from Aviva for a Chartered Building Surveyor to report on the 
source of the leak and the likely cause of damage to Miss As property. Aviva agreed 
these costs in May 2018. 
In September 2018, Solicitor A told Aviva it was seeking access to the neighbours 
property so the expert report could be completed. And in February 2019, Solicitor A 
confirmed the source of the leak had been identified. It requested further funding to 
deal with the expert and to also issue a pre-action letter to the leaseholder. 
Aviva queried the amount with Solicitor A and asked if the claim was still 
proportionate to pursue. Solicitor A confirmed it was, and so, Aviva authorised 
funding. Aviva also asked Solicitor A to provide a quote for the cost of an expert 
confirming the total value of the claim if they deemed it necessary.  
Having not heard from Solicitor A since July 2019, Aviva wrote to them in October 
2019 to say it assumed the matter had been closed. 
In June 2020, Miss A told Aviva shed made a complaint about Solicitor As handling 
of her legal claim and that she wished to appoint Solicitor B going forwards. 
At this time, Solicitor A told Aviva it had previously advised Miss A that remedial 
works to her property should be allowed to happen before quantifying damages, and 
that repairs would be the quickest way for the leak to be stopped, rather than legal 
proceedings. 
Solicitor A said the claim continued to have prospects of success and was 
proportionate to pursue. However, in line with Miss As request, Aviva agreed to 
appoint Solicitor B  which Aviva agreed to. 
Solicitor B said Solicitor A was not forthcoming with its full file. So, Solicitor B said it 
was necessary to issue a fresh letter of claim, as they could not be certain, without 
sight of the file, that the letter of claim issued by Solicitor A could be relied on  which 
Aviva agreed to fund. 
In November 2020, when Solicitor B asked for further funding, Aviva asked it to 
confirm the claim had prospects of success and continued to be proportionate to 
pursue. Solicitor B said it was proportionate, but that it couldnt yet confirm prospects. 
In mid-December 2020, Solicitor B said it still hadnt received the full file from 
Solicitor A. At this time, Miss A informed Aviva that she referred a complaint to the 
Legal Ombudsman about Solicitor A. 
Solicitor B said her claim had prospects of success and sought funding for Counsels 
opinion, and having confirmed to Aviva the claim was proportionate to pursue, Aviva 
agreed the further costs. 
Miss A raised concerns about the charges Solicitor B had made. Aviva advised it 
could not comment on whether Solicitor B was overcharging but that a costs 
draftsman would scrutinise costs at the end of the claim.
Aviva sought confirmation from Miss A that she agreed to Aviva further funding 
Solicitor Bs costs  which she gave. It says Solicitor B was also reminded of the 
indemnity limit.
Unhappy that Solicitor B hadnt sent any letters to the other party, Miss A said she 
would look to change to solicitors. In early March 2021, Solicitor B said it was 
finalising the claim and that it would be submitted to court the following week. Shortly 
after, Miss A asked Aviva to refrain from authorising further payments to Solicitor B 
until theyd prepared the case for court.
At the end of March 2021, Miss A told Aviva she wanted to change solicitors. On the 
same day, Solicitor C approached Aviva with its terms of business. Miss A also 
asked if Aviva could forward on Solicitor Bs file to Solicitor C to avoid her needing to 
have to share her new solicitors details with Solicitor B  which Aviva agreed to. 
Miss A raised concerns about the indemnity limit. Aviva explained the limit was 
£50,000 but that it was for proportionate costs. At this time, Miss A said her claim 
value was over £100,000. 
After some back and forth regarding Solicitor Cs costs, it agreed to Avivas terms of 
business in mid-April 2021. Solicitor C asked Aviva for Solicitor Bs file as a matter of 
urgency. 
Unhappy with progress, Miss A complained to Aviva. Aviva advised Miss A to contact 
Solicitor B to see if she could expedite receiving the file. Aviva also chased Solicitor B for its file. 
In early May 2021, Aviva received some documents from Solicitor Bs file by email 
and these were sent to Solicitor C. A few days later, having received a hard copy of 
Solicitor Bs file, Aviva sent this to Solicitor C.
Miss A then raised concerns about Solicitor Bs file, saying several documents were 
missing. She also raised concerns about the fees which had been charged by 
Solicitor B for completing what she deemed an incomplete case file, and the amount 
charged for the surveyors fees.
By the end of May 2021, Solicitor C had provided its opinion which in summary said 
Solicitor B hadnt properly performed the pre-action protocol and that further 
evidence was required. It also asked for further funding to proceed. 
Following this, Miss A raised concerns with Solicitor Cs opinion. Aviva said it would 
await Solicitor Cs corrected opinion. 
In June 2021, a Costs Draftsman confirmed to Aviva that the fees charged by 
Solicitor B were reasonable and proportionate.
At the end of June 2021, emails between Miss A and Solicitor C culminated in 
Solicitor C deciding to no longer represent Miss A. 
In July 2021, Miss A provided Aviva with Solicitor Ds contact details. Aviva sent its 
terms of business shortly after. On Miss As request, Aviva sent her case file to 
Solicitor D. It also informed Miss A of Solicitor Bs costs. 
Miss A raised concerns with Aviva about documents which suggested Solicitor B and 
C hadnt acted in her best interest. 
Later, in August 2021, Miss A asked Aviva to share with her emails between Aviva 
and Solicitor C  which it did. 
In mid-September 2021 Solicitor D engaged with Avivas attempts to agree its 
Solicitors hourly rate. In an email to Aviva, it asked whether the indemnity rate could 
be increased to exceed £50,000  noting that its predecessor had used £21,000 of 
the indemnity.
Aviva agreed to Solicitor Ds hourly rate, but said the indemnity limit wouldnt be 
increased, and that approximately £28,000 remained. 
Miss A asked to be copied into any future correspondence between Solicitor D and 
Aviva, which Aviva agreed to. She also queried whether the defendant was pursuing 
the matter through Aviva  which Aviva said it couldnt comment on. 
Aviva said despite its attempts to obtain Solicitor Ds agreement to its terms of 
business, by the end of October 2021 it hadnt done so. 
In early November 2021, unhappy with the lack of progress by Solicitor D, Miss A 
asked to appoint Solicitor E and Aviva sent on its terms of business.
At the end of November 2021, Miss A asked Aviva how much had been paid to 
solicitors to date and queried why a written Counsels opinion hadnt been obtained. Aviva advised that even if funding is agreed for a written opinion, its only paid if an 
opinion is provided. Aviva said the Costs Draftsmen had reviewed and approved 
Solicitor Bs costs. 
Over the next couple of months, Aviva said attempts were made to obtain Solicitor 
Es agreement to its terms of business but by mid-March 2022, it hadnt done so. 
In January 2022, Miss E had raised a complaint about Avivas handling of her claim 
stating it had ignored calls, emails and that Solicitor B had been paid for a written 
opinion which hadnt materialised. Miss A also raised concerns about whether Aviva 
was funding the defendants fees and that this would cause a conflict of interest.
On 14 March 2022, Aviva issued its final response letter. In summary it said despite 
the inevitable delays which would be caused by changing solicitors several times, it 
was satisfied it had progressed Miss As claim efficiently. It added that Miss A had 
perhaps not acted in accordance with the policy conditions by hindering the 
progression of her legal claim noting that Solicitor C said shed been obstructive. 
Aviva said that at the time of its final response, Solicitor E hadnt agreed to its terms 
of business, and it encouraged Miss A to contact them. 
Unhappy, Miss A brought a complaint to this Service. Our investigator considered it 
but didnt uphold it. In summary she said Aviva isnt responsible for the actions of the 
appointed solicitors; that it had sought to agree costs in line with County Court 
Guideline rates  to keep costs at a minimum and hadnt caused avoidable delays.   
Miss A remained unhappy and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
important to explain that Im only considering events up until the date of Avivas final 
response letter on 14 March 2022. So, any concerns Miss A has about Avivas handling of 
her claim after this time, should be directed to Aviva in the first instance.
Understandably, Miss A has been under a great deal of stress owing to the ongoing issue 
with her property. And Ive no doubt the difficulties she says shes experienced with the 
various solicitors has compounded this. But I cant as part of this complaint consider the 
alleged actions (or inactions) of the solicitors. As legal professionals, they have their own 
code of conduct and professional standards which they must abide by and so, any concerns 
Miss A has about the Solicitors legal advice and service should be directed to the Legal 
Ombudsman. 
Similarly, any concerns Miss A has about how her building claim has been handled under 
her home insurance policy do not fall within the remit of this complaint. I am only considering 
how Aviva, as the underwriter of her legal expenses policy, has handled her claim. 
Delays and communication
Having reviewed whats happened, its apparent the delays in progressing Miss As legal 
claim are largely due to her changing solicitors five times during the claim. Although there 
may have been delays on the various solicitors part which contributed to this, ultimately, 
moving a claim between numerous legal representatives is inevitably going to stall progress because it requires each newly appointed Solicitor to spend time getting up to speed with 
events before providing advice.  
Regardless of whether the need to change solicitors was because of Miss As interactions 
with the solicitors (the reason put forward by Solicitor C for no longer representing her), or 
because of the solicitors alleged inaction, whats key is that  based on the information Ive 
seen  these delays didnt occur because of Avivas claims handling. And it wouldnt, 
therefore, be reasonable to hold Aviva accountable for delays which were outside of its 
control. 
Instead, from what Ive seen, Aviva has been co-operative and worked to progress Miss As 
claim. It agreed to take receipt of Miss As case file from Solicitor B to pass it to Solicitor C 
when Miss A asked it to  even though this isnt something I wouldnt necessarily expect it to 
do. And it chased Solicitor B for its file to expedite things. In the absence of evidence which 
shows Aviva caused avoidable delays, Im not satisfied it is responsible for the length of time 
Miss As claim has been going on for.
Costs
The policy says Aviva will cover All reasonable and necessary legal costs charged by the 
appointed representative and agreed by us. And in determining whether the costs are 
reasonable and necessary, Aviva requires the appointed legal representative to confirm that 
the legal claim enjoys reasonable prospects of success and that the legal costs remain 
proportionate. In other words, the damages sought under the legal claim need to be higher 
than any costs and expenses which may be incurred. 
Miss A considers Aviva to have agreed to disproportionate legal costs which has in turn 
limited her indemnity for ongoing legal action. Aviva has explained that at the end of the 
claim, the legal fees will be scrutinised by its Costs Draftsman to ensure the costs are 
reasonable and necessary. Ive seen that it also set this out in its terms of business, 
meaning each legal representative is aware that their costs will be subject to scrutiny. 
Before authorising payments for funding, Aviva has sought advice from the legal 
representatives as to whether the costs remain proportionate  to which it has always been 
told they did. Aviva is not a legal expert, and so it is entitled to rely on the solicitors advice 
when agreeing to further funding. It also negotiated the various solicitors rates to bring them 
in line with the County Court Guideline rates to keep its costs to a minimum and keep as 
much of Miss As indemnity available. 
Whilst costs are ordinarily reviewed at the end of the claim, because of Miss As strong 
concerns regarding the fees charged by Solicitor B, Aviva appointed a costs draftsman to 
review their costs. Ive seen the Cost Draftsmans report which confirms the legal fees were 
proportionate and reasonable. And Ive been given no expert evidence to the contrary. So, 
Im satisfied Aviva has handled the matter of costs fairly and in line with its policy terms. 
Miss A has specific concerns about Aviva paying for a written Counsel opinion she says she 
hasnt had. Its not clear if this Counsels opinion was included in Solicitor Bs costs or 
whether it has yet to be reviewed. But in any case, it wouldnt change my mind, Ill explain 
why.
If its the former, the Costs Draftsman has already said Solicitor Bs costs were necessary 
and proportionate. So, as Ive outlined above, Im satisfied Aviva has acted reasonably in 
covering this cost. 
If this cost didnt fall within Solicitor Bs fees, then Aviva will be required to consider this when the overall legal fees are scrutinised by a Costs Draftsman at the end of the legal claim 
 in line with its terms of business. As the claim hadnt concluded at the time of its final 
response letter, Aviva hadnt had the opportunity to do this. So, it wouldnt be fair for me to 
comment on whether Aviva has unreasonably paid for a cost Miss A says she hasnt had the 
benefit of. And should this latter option be the case, this matter will fall outside of the scope 
of this complaint for the reason of it involving events after the final response was issued.
The same would apply to Surveyors fees which Miss A has said was unreasonably inflated. 
If the Surveyors fees were considered under Solicitor Bs disbursements, then the Costs 
Draftsman has already confirmed this was reasonable and proportionate. And without expert 
evidence to the contrary, Im persuaded by their conclusions. If, however, the Surveyors fee 
hasnt been considered by the Costs Draftsman, it will be as part of the review of all the legal 
costs and disbursements at the end of the claim, and so cant be considered as part of this 
complaint.
Miss A has suggested that Aviva has purposefully diminished the value of the indemnity fund 
by agreeing to inflated and unnecessary costs. But as Ive outlined above, I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest this has happened. 
I consider Aviva to acted reasonably by agreeing to appoint each of Miss As solicitors and 
authorising further funding  including appointing two more legal representatives after 
Solicitor C said it no longer wanted to represent Miss A. So, Im not persuaded the evidence 
supports Miss As argument that Aviva has deliberately sought to use up her indemnity 
fund. 
Conflict of interest
Miss A asked Aviva to disclose to her whether it was also the insurer for the respondent, 
stating that if Aviva was, there would be a conflict of interest. Miss A reasoned that it would 
be in Avivas interest to limit her indemnity fund (by approving unnecessary legal costs) to 
prevent her from being able to use her indemnity fund to pursue court action which she said 
would likely go in her favour. The result, she says, would be Aviva having to pay damages to 
her as the defendants insurer.
Miss A was informed by Aviva that it couldnt share this information  and I agree that this 
isnt information Miss A is entitled to. There is a limited market of insurers, and its inevitable 
that in any type of insurance claim, the parties may be insured by the same underwriter.
But in any case, her comments are speculative and unsupported by the evidence. And for all 
the above reasons, Im satisfied Aviva has handled her claim fairly and in line with its 
obligations. 
Whilst I know my decision will disappoint Miss A, I hope for the reasons set out above she 
understands why Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman