DRN-3188791
The complaint
Ms G complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited trading as 1Plus1 Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided her with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
Ms G was given a loan by 1Plus1 as follows: 
Date taken Loan status Number of monthly 
instalmentsLoan 
amountMonthly  
repayment*Total 
payable 
October 
2016Paid 36 £3,000 £140.84 £5,070.24
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Gs complaint. She didnt think that 1Plus1 shouldve 
provided the loan and so she recommended upholding the complaint and set out the steps 
1Plus1 needed to take to put things right. 
1Plus1 disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, it mainly said the amount of 
Ms Gs outstanding debt was extremely low at around £1,900. Also, she was in payment 
arrangements so it looked like she was taking steps to improve her financial situation. It had 
also allowed for two guarantor loans she was paying and it was satisfied that its affordability 
assessment showed this loan was affordable for Ms G. So 1Plus1 didnt agree it had done 
anything wrong.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. I have also taken into consideration 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. 
Id like to reassure 1Plus1 that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator and I am upholding Ms Gs complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain in more detail why I say this.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
1Plus1 asked Ms G about her income and expenses, it carried out credit checks and did an 
electronic check to verify her pay. It also took into account statistical information when 
comparing Ms Gs declared expenditure against national data showing typical spending for 
someone in the same situation.
1Plus1 recorded a figure of £1,325 net salary per month. After doing its own background 
checks and allowing for what she would need to spend each month, 1Plus1 worked out that 
Ms G should still have been left with much more than the monthly repayment, plus a buffer 
of at least £100 for emergencies. So this led 1Plus1 to conclude that the loan was affordable 
for Ms G.
Ive taken carefully into account everything 1Plus1 has said in response to our investigators 
view about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully about what I think a 
responsible lender should have made of all this information and in particular whether it was 
enough for 1Plus1 to make a fair decision to lend.
Our investigator thought 1Plus1 needed to do further checks before agreeing this loan. 
1Plus1 disagrees on this point. But I dont need to say more about the checks 1Plus1 did 
because this makes no difference to the outcome of this complaint. I think the checks 1Plus1 
did carry out meant the lender already had enough information in front of it to realise that this 
loan looked unsustainable for Ms G. 
I say this because 1Plus1 had information showing that Ms G already had serious money 
management problems. She was repaying £20 per month towards a £963 credit card debt 
that had been passed to a debt collector. 
She had three other defaulted accounts showing and although the balances werent 
substantial, Ms G was paying just £1 per month to each. She told 1Plus1 she had already 
taken out two other loans that year. These dont appear to show on the credit report 
1Plus1obtained so the amounts owing were unknown  although it calls into question the 
total indebtedness figure of £1,900 1Plus1 has mentioned. One loan was taken out around 
seven months earlier and the other just three months before applying for this loan. 
Keeping in mind that Ms G had said she shared her household costs, I think 1Plus1 should 
have realised that there was no obvious explanation for Ms Gs problematic debt or why 
someone with the level of income it had established that Ms G received should apparently 
need to rely to this extent on obtaining expensive credit.
Like our investigator, I think this credit history showed that Ms Gs finances were under 
significant stress and that the reality of her situation was that this additional debt would be 
unmanageable for her. Whilst Ive carefully taken into account what 1Plus1 has said about 
the relatively low amount of Ms Gs total indebtedness, I think this makes her money 
problems more difficult to understand and further demonstrates the unlikelihood that Ms G 
had the amount of spare cash each month that its affordability check suggested - or indeed, any surplus at all. I think its also fair to say that as it seemed Ms Gs existing creditors had 
agreed to accept nominal payments only towards her outstanding accounts, this was yet 
another warning sign that she didnt have any spare income.
I dont think 1Plus1 was reasonably able to say that the information it gathered supported its 
lending decision or that it saw enough to be satisfied that Ms G would be able to sustainably 
afford to make the repayments of around £140 for its loan when the indications were that 
she couldnt afford more than token payments towards existing accounts.
As well as this, by my estimate, when she signed up to pay this loan Ms G was committing to 
paying almost a third of her take home pay just on servicing her loans and the credit card 
that was in debt collection  which she was likely to be paying for the whole of the duration 
of this three year loan term if repayments were kept at just £20 per month. I think that this 
was such a significant proportion of Ms Gs monthly income 1Plus1 couldnt reasonably say 
that it was likely that she would be able to repay its loan in a sustainable way. 
For all these reasons, I cant reasonably say that 1Plus1 made a fair lending decision based 
on the information in front of it and I dont think it should have agreed to provide this loan to 
Ms G.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything 1Plus1 has said, including 
its detailed responses to our investigators view. I appreciate the time 1Plus1 has spent 
setting out its position in some detail. I acknowledge that 1Plus1 has taken a different view to 
me and if I have not referred to each point raised its because I have nothing further I can 
usefully add to what our investigator has said already. I have concentrated on what 
I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this complaint. I appreciate that 
my decision will be disappointing for 1Plus1 but I hope that setting things out as I've done 
helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
As Ms G has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that 
she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what 
1Plus1 did wrong. 
So, 1Plus1 needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that 1Plus1 should pay any additional redress. Ms G 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 1Plus1 acted 
unfairly towards Ms G in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms G to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has been charged extra for a loan that should not have been provided to her. In line 
with this Services approach, Ms G shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. 
1Plus1 should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Ms G received as a result of having been given 
this loan. The repayments Ms G made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Ms G having paid more than she received, then any overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then 1Plus1 should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms G.
Whilst its fair that Ms Gs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So 1Plus1 should remove any negative 
information recorded on Ms Gs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 should 
give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Gs complaint and direct 1Plus1 Loans Limited trading as 1Plus1 Loans to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman