DRN-4198504
Complaint
Mr E has complained about guarantor loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as George 
Banco.com) provided to him. 
He says the loans were unaffordable and so should never have been provided to him.
Background
George Banco provided Mr E with five guarantor loans in total. It initially provided Mr E with 
a first loan for £2,000.00 in July 2015. This loan had an APR of 73.2% and a term of 18 
months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £3,004.02, including interest, fees 
and charges of £1,004.02, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of £166.89. 
Loan 1 was settled early with some of the proceeds from loan 2, which George Banco 
provided to Mr E in February 2016. The total amount advanced was £3,100.00 and 
£1,514.00 went towards repaying the outstanding balance on loan 1. Loan 2 had an APR of 
51.8% and a term of 30 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £5,081.70, 
including interest, fees and charges of £1,981.70, was due to be repaid in 30 monthly 
instalments of £169.39. 
Loan 2 was also settled early. This was done with some of the proceeds from loan 3, which 
George Banco provided to Mr E in July 2016. The total amount advanced for loan 3 was 
£4,200.00 of which £2,960.50 was used to settle the outstanding balance on loan 2. This 
loan had an APR of 49.7% and a term of 36 months which meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £7,365.60, including interest, fees and charges of £3,165.60, was due to be repaid 
in 36 monthly instalments of £204.60. 
However, loan 3 was also settled early. This was done with some of the proceeds from loan 
4, which George Banco provided to Mr E in April 2017. The total amount advanced for loan 4 
was £5,600.00 of which £4,942.02 was used to settle the outstanding balance on loan 3. 
This loan had an APR of 47.2% and a term of 48 months which meant that the total amount 
to be repaid of £11,183.52, including interest, fees and charges of £5,583.52, was due to be 
repaid in 48 monthly instalments of £232.99. 
Loan 4 was also settled early. This was done with some of the proceeds from loan 5, which 
George Banco provided to Mr E in December 2017. The total amount advanced for loan 5 
was £7,500.00 of which £4,942.02 was used to settle the outstanding balance on loan 4. 
This loan had an APR of 45.74% and a term of 60 months which meant that the total amount 
to be repaid of £16,922.40, including interest, fees and charges of £9,422.40, was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of £282.04. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Es complaint and she thought George Banco didnt do 
anything wrong when it provided Mr E with loan 1. But she also thought that George Banco 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr E with loans 2 to 5. So she thought 
that Mr Es complaint should be partially upheld. 
Mr E didnt disagree with our investigators conclusions. But George Banco did disagree so 
the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
As the parties are in agreement with the outcome reached on loan 1, this decision is only 
looking at whether George Banco acted fairly and reasonably when providing loans 2 to 5 to 
Mr E.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Es complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint about loans 
2 to 5. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
George Banco needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is George Banco needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr E could afford to repay any credit it provided. The fact that George Banco may also have 
been able to seek payments from a guarantor did not alter or dilute this obligation in any 
way.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information George Banco has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before all of these loans were provided. The results of which showed that Mr E had had 
previous difficulty repaying credit at the time of loan 2. While this may have been historic, the 
credit check would more likely than not have shown that Mr E was in a cycle of payday 
lending at this time. 
Im also concerned that George Banco checks appear to indicate that it accepted at face 
value that Mr E had a monthly disposable income which increased during the course of 
loans 2 to 5 at one stage it was apparently close to £700, despite this being inconsistent with 
what showed on the credit searches and Mr Es apparent need to borrow increasing 
amounts on such disadvantageous terms. 
Given the apparent mismatch between the disposable income figures arrived at and what    
Mr Es credit file and borrowing history showed, I do think that there was a need for George 
Banco to carry out further enquiries into Mr Es financial circumstances before it agreed to 
provide loans 2 to 5 to him. In particular, I think that it needed to find out more about Mr Es 
actual expenditure before it agreed to provide these loans to him.  
Mr E has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he applied 
for these loans. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just because something shows up in the information Mr E has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks George Banco mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from George Banco showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on what this information says as an indication of what Mr Es financial circumstances 
were more likely than not to have been at the respective times. 
At this point, I do think its important for me to set out that George Banco was required to 
establish whether Mr E could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the 
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
As this is the case, I do think that the information provided does show that Mr Es existing 
financial position as well as his previous difficulties meant that he was always unlikely to be 
able to afford the payments to these guarantor loans, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. Indeed, he already appears to have been relying on borrowing further in order to 
meet his commitments. This was not a viable strategy for repaying these loans.
Im therefore satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not 
have shown George Banco that it shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr E. As George 
Banco provided Mr E with loans 2 to 5, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards him. 
Mr E ended up paying interest, fees and charges on guarantor loans he shouldnt have been 
provided with. 
So Im satisfied that Mr E lost out because of what George Banco did wrong and that it 
should now put things right as a result.
Fair compensation  what George Banco needs to do to put things right for Mr E
Having thought about everything, George Banco should put things right for Mr E by:
refunding any interest, fees and charges that Mr E himself actually paid as a result of 
loans 2 to 5;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded interest payments from the 
date they were made by Mr E to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information it may have recorded on Mr Es credit file as a 
result of these loans. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires George Banco to take off tax from this interest. George 
Banco must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Es complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman