DRN-4068992
The complaint
Mr F complains that Creation Financial Services Limited treated him unfairly when it declined
claims he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Mr F is represented by a claims management company but Ill refer generally to everything
thats been said on his behalf as if Mr F had said it himself, to keep things simple.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr F and his wife purchased a holiday product when they were on holiday
abroad. The cost was nearly £9,000 and Mr F paid over £5,000 of this using his credit card
from Creation. Mr F says they were promised a number of exclusive member benefits and
discounts by a salesperson (for a company that Ill call A) who also said membership was an
investment and A could re-sell this for them at a substantial profit at any time.
A few months later Mr F found the website relating to the product purchased was
inaccessible and A had gone into liquidation. With the help of a representative (that Ill call B)
he complained to Creation (in February 2020) raising a claim under section 75. Creation
didnt respond and Mr F referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators contacted Creation and it said section 75 doesnt apply because the 
specific type of debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) relationship needed to bring such a claim isnt 
present. Creation stated that Mr F made the credit card payment to A but A is not the 
supplier under the purchase agreement meaning theres a break in the d-c-s chain and 
Creation isnt liable under section 75.
Our investigator looked into what happened and she didnt recommend the complaint should 
be upheld. She was satisfied the relevant payment was made to A but the purchase 
agreement doesnt mention A  it says another entity (that Ill call K) ran the membership and
arranged any benefits. The investigator considered whether the payment to A could be 
treated as a payment to K for the purposes of a section 75 claim (under section 184 CCA). 
She could see there were some claims made online about links between A and K but she 
was unable to verify these with a reliable source. And she wasnt persuaded that having the 
commercial relationship claimed or the same employee(s) was enough. The investigator 
didnt think section 75 applied and she considered it wasnt unreasonable of Creation to 
decline Mr Fs claim.
Mr F didnt agree and he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. He said, in
summary, the supplier and A were associates as A was a marketing company linked to the
supplier via a sales manager who was also an owner of A.
Having considered the evidence available, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. My 
reasons werent the same as the investigators however and Id considered some additional 
issues. I thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings in this situation  so 
they could comment further, if they wanted to, before I made my final decision. I issued a 
provisional decision to the parties on 23 March 2023. My reasoning is set out below (in 
italics) and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and
codes of practice and (where appropriate) good industry practice at the relevant time, when I
make my decision. And I want to assure the parties, if I dont address every single point
thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything
thats been said and sent to us but Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is
relevant and material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Section 75 CCA
Section 75 provides that the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim
against the credit provider if theres a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier
of goods or services - in certain circumstances. So, Ive considered section 75 when Ive
looked at whether Creation has taken appropriate steps in relation to this complaint.
Im satisfied that one of the requirements under this section is there must be a valid d-c-s
agreement. Section 75 says If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling
within section 12(b) or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any
claim against the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall
have a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and
severally liable to the debtor.
A d-c-s agreement is defined under section 12(b) of the CCA as a restricted-use credit
agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b) and is made by the creditor under pre-existing
arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements, between himself and the
supplier. Section 11(1)(b) provides that a restricted-use credit agreement is a regulated
consumer credit agreement to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the
supplier) other than the creditor.
There seems to be no dispute that Mr F made the relevant payment in April 2019 to the
company that Ive called A. Ive seen the purchase agreement that Mr F and Mrs F signed at
the point of sale and Im satisfied this says the supplier they contracted with was a Spanish
company - that I will refer to as S. It should be noted that S traded under the name of the
entity that Ive called K (which is not the same entity as a UK company that bears a similar
name).
I think Creation argues (essentially) that the payment to A means there wasnt a d-c-s
agreement because the credit agreement was not made under pre-existing arrangements,
or in contemplation of future arrangements between Creation and the supplier, S.
Section 187 CCA provides some assistance as to what amounts to arrangements between
creditor and supplier as follows 
(1) A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into under pre-existing
arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in accordance 
with, or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made between persons 
mentioned in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c).(2) A consumer credit agreement shall be treated as entered into in contemplation of 
future arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if it is entered into in the 
expectation that arrangements will subsequently be made between persons 
mentioned in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c) for the supply of cash, goods and services 
(or any of them) to be financed by the consumer credit agreement.
(3) Arrangements shall be disregarded for the purposes of subsection (1) or (2) if
(a) they are arrangements for the making, in specified circumstances, of 
payments to the supplier by the creditor, and
(b) the creditor holds himself out as willing to make, in such circumstances, 
payments of the kind to suppliers generally.
(3A) Arrangements shall also be disregarded for the purposes of subsections (1) and 
(2) if they are arrangements for the electronic transfer of funds from a current 
account at a bank within the meaning of the Bankers Books Evidence Act 1879.]
(4)The persons referred to in subsections (1) and (2) are 
(a) the creditor and the supplier;
(b) one of them and an associate of the others;
(c) an associate of one and an associate of the others.
(5) Where the creditor is an associate of the suppliers, the consumer credit 
agreement shall be treated, unless the contrary is proved, as entered into under pre-
existing arrangements between the creditor and the supplier.
Like the investigator, Ive considered whether S (the supplier) and A (the business that took
the payment) are associates of each other (as referred to above)  meaning payment to A
could be treated as a payment to S for the purpose of section 75.
The term associate is defined under section 184 CCA which says 
(1) A person is an associate of an individual if that person is
(a) the individuals husband or wife or civil partner,
(b) a relative of
(i) the individual, or
(ii) the individuals husband or wife or civil partner, or
(c) the husband or wife or civil partner of a relative of
(i) the individual, or
(ii) the individuals husband or wife or civil partner.
(2) A person is an associate of any person with whom he is in partnership, and of the
husband or wife [or civil partner] or a relative of any individual with whom he is in
partnership.
(3) A body corporate is an associate of another body corporate
(a) if the same person is a controller of both, or a person is a controller of one 
and persons who are his associates, or he and persons who are his 
associates, are controllers of the other; or
(b) if a group of two or more persons is a controller of each company, and the 
groups either consist of the same persons or could be regarded as consisting 
of the same persons by treating (in one or more cases) a member of either 
group as replaced by  person of whom he is an associate.
(4) A body corporate is an associate of another person if that person is a controller of 
it or if that person and persons who are his associates together are controllers of it.(5) In this section relative  means brother, sister, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, lineal 
ancestor or lineal descendant. . . references to a husband or wife include a former 
husband or wife and a reputed husband [or wife, and references to a civil partner 
include a former civil partner [and a reputed civil partner];] and for the purposes of 
this subsection a relationship shall be established as if any illegitimate child, step-
child or adopted child of a person [were the legitimate child of the relationship in 
question] .
The information I have about both S and A is somewhat limited. An online search shows
theyve shared the same postal address overseas in the past and I accept the individual
named by B may well have been involved with both companies. 
B says this individual was an employee of one and an owner of the other, but I havent seen 
any documentary evidence of that. And Im not persuaded, in any event, that the 
relationships (as described by B) would be sufficient to mean that S and A are associates 
(as defined). In short, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to reasonably conclude that 
one controlled the other or they were both controlled by the same people or by associates of 
those people.
I recognise there can be other circumstances where arrangements exist between a creditor
and a supplier without there being a direct contract between them, but Ive seen nothing to
show thats the case in the particular circumstances here. Im satisfied Creation had an
agreement with A under the Mastercard network that amounts to arrangements. However
Ive seen no evidence of any agreement that A might have had with S regarding the relevant
payment - and Ive got nothing to show that Creation was party to (or even aware of) any 
such agreement.
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not presently persuaded that there was a d-c-s agreement
here as required under section 75. I realise these are somewhat technical arguments and Mr
F is likely to be frustrated by what Ive said but the requirements of section 75 are strict. And
I dont think its unreasonable for Creation to decline his section 75 claim, in these particular
circumstances.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a process that allows a customer to ask for a transaction to be reversed if
theres an issue with the goods or services theyve paid for. Chargeback wasnt mentioned
specifically when Mr F contacted Creation in February 2020 to raise a claim under section
75. But Mr F said he hadnt received the services he paid for using his Mastercard and it
looks as if Creation considered a chargeback - which I think was reasonable.
Creation told us it didnt pursue a chargeback at that time because it asked Mr F for
additional information which wasnt received. And Ive thought about whether Creation
followed the relevant scheme rules when it decided not to raise a chargeback. I want to be
clear however that Im not deciding on the merits of any claim that Mr F might have.
Theres no automatic right to a chargeback but we generally think a financial business
should attempt one if theres a reasonable chance of success. Whether a chargeback
succeeds or not is decided under the card scheme rules and its for the financial business to
decide if a chargeback is likely to succeed - albeit wed expect it to make that assessment on
a reasonable basis.
Ive seen an email from a Creation chargeback analyst to Mr Fs representatives dated 9
March 2020 requesting some form of confirmation that the company is no longer trading. It
looks as if B responded with evidence of As status the following day. But Ive seen nothingto show that B provided any information about the company - S - which Im satisfied is the
supplier of the services Mr F says he didnt receive. It looks as if a UK registered company
with a similar name to S was dissolved in December 2019 but Ive got nothing to show that S
ceased trading at the same time - or that any clear evidence of Ss failure to provide services
was supplied to Creation. I dont think it was unreasonable for Creation to take the view that
a chargeback was unlikely to succeed based on the evidence it had at the time. And I cant
fairly find it was wrong of Creation not to raise a chargeback in 2020.
I can see Creation wrote to B requesting information again in 2022 but Im not clear about
why that happened. The relevant scheme rules usually provide that a chargeback must be
raised within 120 days of certain trigger events. I dont have enough information to say for
certain when the 120 days might have started to run here but the rules also provide for a
longstop of 540 days from the date of the transaction (in these particular circumstances). Im
satisfied the relevant transaction took place on 26 April 2019. So, I think any opportunity to
raise a chargeback likely ran out in October 2020. And Im unable to reasonably require
Creation to provide a refund or do anything further.
I realise my provisional findings are likely to come as a disappointment to Mr F but, for the
reasons Ive set out, Im not presently persuaded there are sufficient fair and reasonable
grounds to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider what Id said and let me have any further submissions or 
evidence by 7 April 2023. Both parties have now responded. Creation accepts my 
provisional findings but Mr F disagrees. His representatives say (in summary):- 
the complaint was upheld originally by the investigator and should be upheld now;
the original provider of the relevant product misled customers and that company was 
closed down by the Spanish authorities with its assets frozen but an individual 
manager later set up A which also sold the product; 
this product did not work, A closed down and it was very difficult for customers to get 
a refund because of the way things were set up - an internet search will show how 
many customers lost out in a similar way to Mr F.
I have considered the additional information provided carefully. Im sorry if Mr F feels let 
down but Im afraid nothing thats been said has persuaded me to change my mind. I 
acknowledge the investigator was minded initially to uphold this complaint. Im satisfied 
however that she sent a revised view, after further evidence was provided, recommending 
the complaint should not be upheld. 
I agreed with that outcome but I thought it was fair to issue a provisional decision - because 
Id considered the additional matter of a chargeback and I wanted to explain in more detail 
why I didnt think there was a d-c-s agreement in place. B hasnt disagreed with what I said 
about the chargeback or provided any new evidence that persuades me its reasonable to 
conclude there was a d-c-s agreement here - as required under section 75. 
I realise Mr F feels strongly about what happened. I have sympathy for the situation he finds 
himself in and I appreciate hes probably frustrated by these somewhat technical arguments. 
The requirements of section 75 are strict however and, for the reasons Ive set out already, Im not persuaded the sort of agreement required under that section was in place in the 
particular circumstances here. It follows, I cant fairly find it was unreasonable for Creation to 
decline Mr Fs section 75 claim. And, as Ive explained, Im also unable to say it was wrong 
of Creation not to raise a chargeback. 
I realise this outcome will probably come as a disappointment to Mr F but hes not obliged to 
accept what Ive said, in which case it remains open to him to pursue the matter by any other 
means available.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is I am unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman