DRN-3650413
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is incorrectly holding him liable for a Bounce Back 
Loan. 
What happened
Mr A held a personal account with Lloyds.
Mr A applied to Lloyds for a new business account in June 2020. The bank approved the 
application and the account was opened. These account details were then used to complete 
a Bounce Back Loan application, which was also approved. A loan of £49,000 was drawn 
down into the business account on 11 June.
Over the following fortnight, all but £50 of the loan funds were spent. Over a series of 10 
payments of around £5,000 each, the funds were transferred to Mr As personal account. 
They were then transferred onward to third parties from there.
Mr A says he didnt apply for the Bounce Back Loan and that he didnt benefit from the loan 
funds  which, after being transferred to his personal account, had been paid on to third 
parties that he had nothing to do with. He says the first he knew of the loan was when the 
bank started asking him to repay it (which was around May 2021, when the initial 12-month 
repayment holiday that was a feature of Bounce Back Loans was coming to an end).
In response to Mr As complaint, Lloyds said that all the details within the loan application 
were his and that the Internal Protocol (IP) address  the unique numerical label identifying 
a particular device on the internet  for the transactions in question matched those for 
previous online transactions hed made. And it noted that the loan funds had been 
transferred to Mr As personal account. So it believed Mr A had applied for the loan and that 
it was correctly holding him liable for its repayment.
Mr A referred the matter to us. He said he had opened the business account as hed 
intended to start a new business. But he didnt get anything from the bank about it  such as 
a debit card, personal identification number (PIN) or any paperwork  and, having not 
needed it, he didnt think to follow up on it. 
One of our investigators looked into what happened, but didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong. She said the business account application had contained Mr As genuine 
personal details, and the card and PIN for the business account had been sent to Mr As 
registered address. She noted that some of the online payments using the loan funds had 
been made to existing payees of Mr A, i.e. to recipients that Mr A had paid money to through 
his internet banking prior to the period during which the disputed transactions had been 
made. And when payments to new payees were made for the first time, Lloyds had sent 
SMS messages to Mr As mobile phone to notify him. She also said that Lloyds records 
showed the IP address and online log-in details for the disputed transactions matched 
details for previous and subsequent transactions. 
So, taking all of this into account, our investigator thought that Mr A was either aware of the 
loan, or that he had allowed his details to be used to obtain and utilise it. Either way, she 
didnt think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to hold him responsible for repaying the loan.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators view. He replied to say that:
Hed not entered into an agreement for the loan with Lloyds and was adamant that 
hed not received any paperwork about it. Lloyds records showed that email 
addresses and a second mobile phone number other than his own had been used  
explaining why correspondence and notifications had ended up elsewhere.
His text message records show that hed not received any messages from the bank 
between 14 November 2019 and 7 September 2020  including the period in which 
payments utilising the loan funds had been made, and which hed therefore not been 
aware of. 
All of the loan funds had been sent to a third party, meaning hed not benefitted from 
it in any way  and so it wasnt right that he had to pay it back.
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the available evidence supports Mr As claim that he didnt 
make the Bounce Back Loan application or use the funds, or that he was unaware of these 
transactions. Ill explain how Ive reached this view.
To facilitate the Bounce Back Loan application, a business account was required. Mr A 
confirms that he completed the application for the business account. And hes confirmed that 
he didnt pass his details on to a third party. He hasnt offered a plausible explanation as to 
how a third party couldve made the loan application using his details, including those of the 
business account.
Even accepting that it is possible that a third party couldve obtained Mr As information and 
therefore made the loan application (and entered into the loan agreement) in his name 
without his knowledge, the application requested that the loan be drawn down into Mr As 
business account. So the third party would also have needed access to that account in order 
to derive any benefit from the loan. And as the loan funds were sent to Mr As personal 
account, the third party would have needed access to that account as well. There is no 
plausible explanation as to how a third party wouldve been able to obtain such access 
without Mr As knowledge.
Most importantly, the available evidence leads me to think it is most likely that Mr A  rather 
than a third party  authorised the payments from his personal account that were made 
using the loan funds. I say this because:
The loan funds were ultimately utilised through online payments from Mr As personal 
account. So the user wouldve had to have log on to Mr As internet banking  
requiring his unique credentials to do so.  As the payments were made to new payees, Lloyds sent notification to Mr As mobile 
number when these payees were set up. Lloyds records show that it sent SMS 
messages to Mr As correct mobile phone number  the one that hes provided to 
us  when new payees were set up in June 2020. So Id expect him to have queried 
this at the time, if this wasnt done with his knowledge. He didnt, and only raised the 
matter almost a year later. Although I note that these messages arent visible in the 
screenshot of Mr As mobile phone screen, I dont think is a definitive record (not 
least as messages can be deleted).
During the period in which the loan funds were being transferred into Mr As personal 
account and onward to third parties, payments were also made to two of Mr As pre-
existing payees. 
The IP addresses for the disputed transactions utilising the loan funds match those of 
a transaction made by Mr A to a pre-existing payee, to which he made payments 
before and after the period at issue. 
Ive taken into account everything Mr A has told us, including his point that different contact 
details were provided within the application forms. I can see that different contact details 
were provided (and utilised) at different points. But even accepting that any contact or 
correspondence through these alternative details didnt reach Mr A, it doesnt affect any of 
the points Ive outlined above. The SMS notifications about new payees went to the correct 
mobile number and the available evidence doesnt lead me to think that the loan was 
obtained, or utilised, without Mr As knowledge or involvement. 
So from what Ive seen, I dont think the Bounce Back Loan application or the transactions 
through which the funds were spent were made by a third party without Mr As knowledge. It 
follows that I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably in seeking repayment of 
the loan funds from him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman