DRN-3724894
The complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to treat her fairly when it advised her in 
May 1997 to increase the free standing additional voluntary contributions she was paying to 
supplement her pension savings.
What happened
Ms M received advice from Black Horse Life. That firm forms part of Lloyds, so it is Lloyds 
that is responsible for dealing with her complaint. Throughout this decision, for ease, I will 
simply refer to the business as Lloyds. Ms M has been assisted in making her complaint by a 
claims management company (CMC). In this decision, again for ease, I will refer to all 
communication as if it has been with, and from, Ms M herself.
The meeting that has led to this complaint was attended by both Ms M and her husband. 
The recommendations Lloyds gave also applied to both parties. But this complaint only 
relates to Ms M. So I wont be dealing with, or making any further reference to, the advice 
given to Ms Ms husband.
Ms M was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). In 1992 she met with 
Lloyds to discuss her pension arrangements. In that meeting she was advised to start paying 
free standing additional voluntary contributions (FSAVCs) to a new pension plan sold by 
Lloyds. Ms M accepted that recommendation and agreed to make net monthly contributions 
of £40. I have dealt with a complaint about that advice in a separate decision.
In 1997 Ms M had a further meeting with Lloyds. Following that meeting she agreed to 
increase her FSAVC payments by an additional £30 per month. Ms M has said that when 
providing that advice Lloyds failed to meet its regulatory responsibilities in terms of 
discussing alternative contribution options that were available to her through her OPS.
Ms Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
information Lloyds had given to Ms M, and the records of its discussions at the time of the 
sale were sufficient for him to conclude that Lloyds had met its regulatory responsibilities. 
So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Ms M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Ms M and by Lloyds. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As I have said earlier, the meeting that took place in 1997 followed a decision that had been 
taken by Ms M five years earlier to start making FSAVC payments. So there was a risk that 
Lloyds might have failed to conduct as thorough an advice process as it should have, given 
that the recommendation it was making was simply to increase the existing contributions. 
But Im satisfied that wasnt the case, as I will now go on to explain.
The advisor that met with Ms M was what was known as a tied advisor. That meant they 
could only recommend products offered by Lloyds. They couldnt actively recommend any 
other products from any other product providers including the in-house options (AVCs or 
added years) offered by the OPS. The relevant regulatory guidance was contained in the 
May 1996 Regulatory Update 20 (RU20), which was produced by the Personal Investment 
Authority, one of the predecessors of the current regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. 
RU20 gave guidance on the procedures for advising clients on the relative merits of FSAVCs 
and AVCs provided by occupational pension schemes.
For tied advisers, RU 20 indicated that before selling an FSAVC tied advisers should:
draw the clients attention to the in-house alternative;
discuss the generic differences between the two routes (taking account, among other 
things, of the features described in this article); and
direct the client to his employer, or to the OPS, for more information on the in-house 
option.
Among the features referred to in the article were that charges under in-house AVCs would 
usually be lower. In particular the article said;
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, 
reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration 
expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely 
to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the 
client
The regulator indicated that it would expect the advice file to have documentary evidence 
demonstrating that the procedures in the update had been followed.
So Lloyds needed to make Ms M aware of the in-house AVC and to discuss the generic 
features of the in-house options and of the FSAVC. The key difference I wouldve expected 
Lloyds to explain to Ms M would be the likelihood of lower charges for the in-house AVC. I would also expect Ms M to have been directed to her employer and/or occupational 
pension scheme trustee to obtain more information on her in-house options.
The paperwork from the time sets out the steps that Lloyds took to ensure that Ms M was 
sufficiently informed about her options before the advice process was completed. Ms M was 
given a copy of a leaflet that compared the differences between the FSAVC plan, and AVC 
plans provided by an employer. And the recommendation document noted that Ms M had 
discussed her situation with a pension adviser from her union who had suggested she 
should use a FSAVC plan.
The comparison leaflet that Lloyds gave to Ms M set out in very clear terms, as the leading 
comparison, the difference in the charges across the two arrangements. In particular it told 
Ms M that;
Most employers bear part and sometimes all of the expenses of the AVC. The 
charges are usually lower than for Free-standing AVCs and this is the main reason 
for some customers choosing the in-house option.
I am satisfied that the information Lloyds gave to Ms M, and the opportunity she had taken to 
discuss the in-house scheme with her union representative, were sufficient for me to 
conclude that Lloyds met its regulatory obligations when it advised her to increase the 
payments she was making to the FSAVC arrangement.
The recommendation document also records why Ms M chose the FSAVC plan instead of 
making AVC payments to her OPS. It says that Ms M preferred the flexibility of the FSAVC 
plan, that she wasnt happy with the terms under which the AVC plan operated, and that she 
wanted a separate scheme should she decide to leave her current employment.
Whilst the regulator suggests, and I agree, that the cost differences between the two options 
might exert the greatest influence on a consumers decision, that isnt the only difference that 
needs to be considered. The reasons have I set out above might also be entirely valid 
reasons why a consumer such as Ms M might decide to make FSAVC payments instead.
The advice that Lloyds gave to Ms M, to increase her additional pension contributions, 
appears to have been suitable for her circumstances. She appears to have been able to 
afford the increased contributions she was advised to make. And I havent seen anything to 
make me think that either the FSAVC plan, or the investments that were made with Ms Ms 
contributions, were unsuitable. Lloyds was not able to advise Ms M to make payments to the 
OPS AVC scheme instead, even if it could be argued that might have been more suitable for 
her circumstances given the likely lower charges.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman