DRN-2143311
The complaint
Mr W complains Scottish Equitable Plc only transferred one of his two group pension policies 
in 2009 to his current employers superannuation scheme which means hes missed out on 
valuable benefits.
What happened
Mr Ws policies were set up with Scottish Equitable, which then branded itself Aegon 
Scottish Equitable and finally Aegon. As the decision is against Scottish Equitable Ill mainly 
refer to the business in that way. 
Mr W had two group personal pensions (GPP) with Scottish Equitable Plc which were set up 
with a previous employer. Policy ending 808 (scheme ending 54) was set up in August 1997 
and policy ending 457 (scheme ending 91) was set up in July 1998. Both received member 
and employer contributions. In August 2006 Mr W joined his employers superannuation 
scheme (known as the USS). Hed also moved, but not given Scottish Equitable his new 
address. 
In April 2007 Mr W emailed Scottish Equitable to request a policy valuation for his dormant 
GPP policy 457 as he was interested in transferring it to the USS. On 30 April 2007 Scottish 
Equitable (now branded Aegon Scottish Equitable) provided Mr W with valuations of both 
policies  457 was valued at just over £4,300 and 808 at £2,300. The letter relating to policy 
457 was sent to the address Scottish Equitable held for Mr W (number 20). But the letter 
regarding policy 808 was sent to the neighbouring property number 22.  Mr W says he didnt 
receive either of these letters at the time. 
In July and August 2008 Mr W wrote to Scottish Equitable to advise of his new address both 
times quoting policy 808. He was prompted to do so as hed received two of his annual 
statements forwarded from his neighbour at number 22, after theyd been opened. Scottish 
Equitable updated Mr Ws address and sent him a statement for policy 808.
In November 2008 Mr W was interested in transferring his Scottish Equitable policy to 
purchase additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) in the USS. So USS wrote to Scottish 
Equitable with Mr Ws transfer instructions. A transfer quote for policy 808 was issued with a 
fund value of around £2,300 and a transfer value of just under £1,800. The transfer 
completed in February 2009 and the amount transferred was around £1,890, which 
increased Mr Ws service in the USS by 36 days. 
Policy 457 remained with Scottish Equitable, but very little correspondence was sent to Mr W 
about it over the years, although evidently some mail was returned in 2016. In June 2019 
Scottish Equitable (now Aegon) carried out a tracing exercise and located Mr W. It wrote to 
advise it had refunded charges of around £50 as theyd been too high. Mr W was confused 
as he thought his policy had been transferred in 2009. It then came to light Mr W originally 
had two policies but only one had been transferred. Policy 457 was transferred to USS in 
August 2019 valued at around £9,300. 
Scottish Equitable said it wasnt responsible for not transferring policy 457 in 2009 as it 
believed Mr W was aware he had two policies, given hed quoted both policy numbers on 
different correspondence. And the value of the transfer should have alerted him at the time. 
But it offered £500 for some administrative errors  it should have sent transfer paperwork 
for both policies, and the lack of information provided about policy 457 between 2007 and 
2019. 
Mr W complained to this service that the failure to transfer both policies in 2009 meant he 
lost the opportunity to purchase added years in the USS, which is detrimental to his 
retirement benefits. He thought he only had one policy, so assumed the number changed as 
part of the transfer of business to Aegon, and he had no reason to query the value. He also 
raised the data protection breach which occurred when his statements were sent to his 
neighbour who opened them before forwarding them on. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought Scottish 
Equitable should have identified both of Mr Ws policies in 2009. So she said it should pay 
redress to put Mr W in broadly the position hed have been in if both policies had transferred 
together. 
Scottish Equitable objected, saying Mr W had raised his complaint too late for this service to 
consider, as he ought reasonably to have known in 2009 he had two policies. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in August 2020 setting out why I didnt think the 
complaint had been made too late. I also thought the complaint should be upheld for broadly 
the same reasons as the investigator.
responses to my provisional decision
Scottish Equitable responded to the provisional decision, and no longer said the complaint 
had been made too late. 
But it said the basis upon which it had been upheld was totally incorrect. The transfer 
instructions received from USS in November 2008 only quoted policy 808 although a 
subsequent letter did only quote Mr Ws NINO. As consumers are entitled to transfer only 
one policy Scottish Equitable had no reason to search for another policy in Mr Ws name 
using his NINO. So it expected the decision to uphold the complaint to be reversed. 
Mr W didnt reply to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Including the points Scottish Equitable has made in response to the provisional decision.
I take Scottish Equitables point about it not being for them to assume Mr W would have 
wanted to transfer both policies when they received the transfer instructions only quoting 
policy number 808 in 2008.
But I bear in mind Mr W only asked for a quote for policy 457 in 2007 (believing he only had 
one dormant policy), yet Scottish Equitable sent quotes for both policies at that time. It didnt 
strictly comply with Mr Ws instructions on that occasion and was obviously able to identify 
he had two policies even though hed only provided one policy number and hadnt provided 
his NINO. And in doing so it failed to notice the discrepancy in the addresses (the incorrect house number and the slight mis-spelling of the street name) which led to information about 
Mr Ws finances being disclosed to his neighbour. Although Mr W did eventually receive 
some correspondence relating to policy 808 via his neighbour, I think Scottish Equitable 
should have noticed it had two policies linked to one NINO, and checked which address was 
correct.  
Mr W has at times quoted both policy numbers in his correspondence  his initial request for 
a valuation quoted 457 and his change of address quoted 808. But Im not persuaded by 
Scottish Equitables position that laypeople would know policy numbers dont change 
because of a merger or that Mr W would realise the numbers are sequential. Scottish 
Equitable did a soft communication campaign about the merger with Aegon, initially 
changing the branding to Aegon Scottish Equitable. I cant know if Mr W paid much 
attention to the policy numbers on the limited correspondence he would have received prior 
to 2009, but given he only thought he had one policy, I find it plausible he would have 
attributed any change he did notice to the merger. He makes a reasonable point that his 
mortgage account number changed when the debt became the responsibility of another 
lender. 
Mr W had only contributed to each policy for a short time and soon after had changed 
employment. He didnt receive either of the policy valuations issued in 2007, so I dont think 
the valuation provided for policy 808 in 2009 would have been enough to alert him it was too 
low or that he might have another policy. Mr W also says he was aware investment values 
were impacted by the financial crash around that time which I think is reasonable. 
I accept it would have been helpful if Mr W had updated his address prior to (or at the same 
time as) requesting the quotation for policy 457 in 2007. But its not certain even if he had 
done so, Scottish Equitable would have updated both policies. Given he only quoted policy 
808 in his change of address letter from July 2008 and he included no policy number or 
NINO in the follow up letter from August 2008. From the copy, it looks like the policy number 
(808) has been added in a different hand, which suggests Scottish Equitable looked up his 
policy number using his name, which was another opportunity for the linked policy (457) to 
have been identified. 
By its own admission, since it issued the quote in 2007 Scottish Equitable provided Mr W 
with very little information about policy 457. If statements had been issued over the years or 
even just in 2008 its possible the discrepancy with the addresses would have been identified 
sooner, or that some mail would have been forwarded to Mr W from his old address. Had Mr 
W found out sooner policy 457 remained with Scottish Equitable thered have had the 
opportunity to transfer it prior to 2019. It seems some post was returned in 2016 although its 
not clear exactly what it was. But Scottish Equitable didnt try to trace Mr W until 2019 even 
though it had his address and information relating to the transfer of his previous policy on its 
systems. 
Scottish Equitable admits it should have issued transfer paperwork for both policies which 
suggests it had the ability to identify there were two policies even when only being asked 
about one. So while I dont think Scottish Equitable should have assumed Mr W wanted to 
transfer both policies in 2009, by not identifying he had two policies linked to the same NINO 
or noticing the discrepancy with the addresses, it denied him the opportunity to make that 
decision at the time. Although its important not to rely on hindsight, and I cant know for sure 
what Mr W would have done in 2009, I think on balance its most likely he would have opted 
to transfer both policies to USS. Even if Mr W remembered having two policies which he 
says he didnt, its hard to think of a reason hed decide to transfer one to his employers 
scheme, and keep one policy with Scottish Equitable, even if he hadnt considered factors 
such as charges or performance. And it seems particularly unlikely hed choose to transfer 
the smaller policy to USS and retain the one with the higher value with Scottish Equitable. So for all those reasons I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Scottish Equitable should undertake a redress calculation in line 
with the pension review methodology, as amended by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
October 2017.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into 
Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Scottish Equitable plc should put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman