DRN-3186337
The complaint
Mrs N, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that she was   
mis-sold an investment by Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mrs N invested £4,300 into a bond with Santander in 2006. The bond matured in 2011, but 
only returned the initial investment amount. 
In January 2021, Mrs N complained to Santander through the CMC. They said that the 
product wasnt suitable for Mrs Ns needs at the time and that she hadnt been given all the 
necessary information regarding the investment.
Santander responded initially to say that the complaint hadnt been raised in time. They also 
said that it had been sold on a non-advised basis, and so werent responsible for its 
suitability.
Mrs N remained unhappy and so the CMC brought the complaint to our service for an 
independent review. Our investigator looked into it. She said that the complaint had been 
brought in time and Santander accepted this. She also said that on a balance of probabilities 
she didnt think that the product had been sold on an advised basis. She also concluded that 
Mrs N should have been provided with a copy of the terms and conditions, which she felt 
made clear how the bond worked. 
The CMC responded to say that Mrs N recalled being recommended the product in her local 
branch and on that basis, advice was given. They maintained that it was unsuitable for her 
needs at the time and she wouldnt have agreed to it, if it had been explained appropriately.
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me to reach a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Unfortunately, due to the amount of time that has passed since Mrs N took the investment 
out, there is limited information available. As the Investigator explained, businesses 
shouldnt keep hold of information indefinitely and this policy matured over ten years ago, in 
2011. 
I therefore have to base my decision on what I think most likely happened. Mrs N says that 
she was advised to take the bond out at the branch. Santander say that these types of 
investment were taken out on a non-advised basis. Consumers were given the information 
they needed and made the decision what to invest in themselves. Further, we have no 
evidence of any fact find, suitability report or further meetings. These are what we would 
expect to see if financial advice was being given. 
Santander has also said that the investment was an online account and would have had an 
online application form, which they say would not have been completed on behalf of the 
customer. Based on the above and having to make a decision on what I think most likely 
happened, I dont believe this investment was taken out on an advised basis and so 
Santander cant be held responsible for its suitability to Mrs Ns needs at the time. 
Despite not advising Mrs N to take the investment out, there was still a requirement for 
Santander to provide clear information for Mrs N to understand how the investment worked. 
This is something that the CMC has said wasnt done. However, I have been provided with 
evidence that the investment account was held online and that account information such as 
the terms and conditions were available online. 
I have also been provided with a copy of the terms and conditions and I believe they made 
clear how the investment worked. They state that returns are not guaranteed and are based 
on the performance of the index. 
Whilst I empathise with Mrs N that she held this investment for five years and it only returned 
the amount she put in, I cant find that Santander have done anything wrong. They didnt 
advise her to take the investment and so cant be held responsible for its suitability. I also 
believe they gave the necessary, clear information for her to make the investment decision. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman