DRN-1999389
The complaint
Miss H has complained about HSBC UK Bank Plc. She isnt happy that it didnt tell her that 
her breakdown insurance policy hadnt renewed which left her unable to use her policy when 
her car broke down.  
What happened
Miss H had a problem with her power steering and looked to make a claim under her car 
breakdown policy in January 2020. Her policy was arranged and administered by HSBC, but 
her insurer had made a commercial decision not to provide the cover Miss H wanted at 
renewal in September 2019. The insurer wrote out to Miss H at her last known address on 
three separate occasions to ensure Miss H was fully aware that her policy wouldnt be 
renewed. Unfortunately, Miss Hs insurer had her old address recorded for her, so she didnt 
receive the letters advising that her policy wasnt going to renew.
Miss H said that she updated her insurer with her present address. But she feels that HSBC 
is also responsible for not letting her know that her policy wasnt renewing and that her direct 
debit had stopped. As Miss H was unhappy about this she complained to this service about 
HSBC and her insurance company. 
Our investigator looked into her complaint about her insurer (which is being dealt with 
separately) and about HSBC. But he didnt think that HSBC had done anything wrong. He 
was satisfied that the insurer, who had decided not to provide breakdown cover amongst 
other policies it provided, was responsible for telling Miss H about this. And he didnt think 
that it was HSBCs responsibility to highlight that her direct debit had stopped.
As Miss H didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss H, but Ill explain why.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat the details 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision which are in line with the 
investigators.   
Miss Hs policy was initially taken out through HSBC a number of years ago, so I can 
understand why she feels it shouldve told her that the policy wouldnt be renewed as her 
insurer was no longer providing cover. But her insurance company had decided to withdraw 
cover and not to renew, so it looked to communicate this to Miss H. I agree with Miss H that 
in an ideal world that HSBC couldve told her about this as well. But it wasnt obliged to do 
so, and it wasnt HSBC that was withdrawing from the product. As such, I cant say it acted 
unreasonably in leaving the insurer to tell Miss H that the policy wouldnt be renewing.
I can also understand why Miss H feels that HSBC shouldve told her that her direct debit 
had stopped. But again it isnt obliged to do this and there may be many reasons why a 
consumer chooses to stop paying something by direct debit. If the direct debit had failed 
then HSBC may have highlighted this to Miss H. But as it was the insurance company that 
had let the policy lapse and chose not to renew the onus was on Miss H to check her 
payments and be aware that the policy had stopped.
So, despite my natural sympathy for Miss H Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman