DRN-3029294
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mr S says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr S 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought BoS offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr S paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr S representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr S. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr S complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that BoS offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate 
for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each 
of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. I say this because while BoS no longer has a copy of Mr S credit card application 
from the time, BoS has provided us with an example, which it says represents what Mr S 
would have seen and completed at the time. Looking at this I can see the applicant had 
to tick a box and sign to confirm they wanted to take out PPI. The application didnt say 
or imply that PPI had to be taken out, so if the applicant didnt want PPI they couldve left 
this section of the form blank. 
Because Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Mr S saw something very different 
when he took out his credit card and PPI, I think its likely that Mr S ticked the box and 
signed the relevant section on his credit card application to take out PPI.
BoS has been able to provide a copy of a demands and needs statement, which the 
adviser used to set out why BoS recommended PPI as being suitable for Mr S. And this 
describes PPI as being optional.
So taking everything into account, I think Mr S chose to take out PPI and likely did so 
without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr S as I said above - so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him. And the evidence about Mr S circumstances at the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr S was eligible 
for the cover and he didnt have any real means to make his card payments if he wasnt 
working, so I think he had a need for cover.
There was nothing about Mr Ss employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And although Mr S says he had a medical condition a couple of 
years prior to taking the policy out, I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have 
recommended it. I say this because Mr S hasnt said or implied that his condition was 
ongoing  it appears to me to have been more of a one-off type problem. Mr S told us 
that he had some private treatment at the time and took a couple of days off work, but 
nothing more. So I dont think Mr S would have considered he was in anything other than 
good health at the time. And based on what Ive seen, I think it was reasonable for the 
adviser to have thought the same. Im mindful that in any event Mr S could have claimed 
for his condition if hed been symptom free for 24 months prior to making a claim.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr S as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
likely given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr S would have 
declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr S circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations 
and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think 
he would have still thought he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr S would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting.
And in those circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.Mr S representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr S representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr S individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr S particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
BoS offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair. 
My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
BoS didnt tell Mr S about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
BoS and Mr S was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because BoS 
didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case 
I dont think BoS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIm now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr S representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr S should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: BoS failed to tell Mr S about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr S wouldnt have taken out the policy had they 
known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr S 
in order to remedy the unfairness caused by BoS not disclosing the high level of commission 
to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr S representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for BoS failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for BoS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr S paid for his PPI policy. I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr S 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if BoS had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that BoS offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr S complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Bank of 
Scotland Plc should pay Mr S an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid 
in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman