DRN-3395159
The complaint
Fs complaint is about a claim it made on an Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
engineering inspection and insurance policy, which was ultimately declined.
F says RSA acted unfairly.
What happened
F took out an engineering inspection and insurance policy through its broker which was 
intended to provide cover for a passenger lift in a four-storey office building.
The lift became damaged, so F made a claim on the policy. RSA sent out an engineer to 
inspect the damage. His advice was that a small proportion of the damage was due to wear 
and tear, but the rest was sudden and unforeseen in nature. As such RSA made an offer to 
settle the claim. Whilst doing so they noted that an insurance premium hadnt been paid by F 
in respect of the insurance.
F, through its representative pointed out that their broker applied to insure the lift through a 
system called eTrade. In doing so it had ticked a box indicating it was applying for sudden 
and unforeseen damage cover. It then ticked to specify the cover was being applied for in 
respect of an electrical item. The result of this selection was that an insurance premium 
wasnt applied for the lift. RSA said that had the broker selected lifting equipment rather than 
electrical, a premium would have been applied and insurance cover would have been 
offered for it.  
Initially RSA offered to assist F by deducting the policy premium they would have charged 
from the settlement amount theyd previously offered. But when the matter was referred for 
payment internally at RSA, they declined to settle the claim because they said no insurance 
was in place.
F referred the matter to this Service. Our investigator considered things and concluded Fs 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said that the onus was on Fs broker to check the 
documents it had received from RSA after it had applied for cover. Those documents 
showed that there was no insurance cover in place. And though RSA initially offered to pay 
the claim, she didnt think it needed to do anything about this when it later changed its 
position because it wasnt required to pay the claim at all.
F disagrees.  It said that the policy schedule was ambiguous so should be read in its favour 
and that RSA treated it unfairly by agreeing to pay the claim then changing its position. 
Because of this the matter has been referred to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Fs complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the type of cover that F purchased. Ive looked carefully at the 
documents its broker was sent in response to its application for cover. The type of cover it 
took out was called engineering inspection and insurance. The policy summary specifies that 
this is in relation to a passenger lift. It also specifies that its not insured in the same box. In 
addition, £0.00 appears next to the itemisation for the insurance premium. So, the only 
amount F was charged for was in respect of the inspection fee. Taken together I think its 
reasonably clear from this document that the only cover F purchased was inspection cover 
rather than insurance. But even if it wasnt totally clear, the covering letter attached to the 
policy summary states You should check carefully that the Policy Schedule is correct and 
shows everything requested as well as If any of the information supplied is incorrect or 
incomplete, please contact us immediately so that we can update it.  So I think that if there 
was any confusion over the cover, Fs broker couldve gone back to RSA to query this.
F feels that the policy summary was ambiguous so it should be interpreted in its favour 
because it also says Sum insured- £750,000. I agree that this isnt ideal given no insurance 
was in place. But I dont think it should reasonably have caused F or its broker to accept 
without question that there was insurance in place given the document also reflects this isnt 
the case and no policy premium was paid in respect of it.  At the very least I wouldve 
expected Fs broker to question the reference to the lift not being insured, if not the fact that 
there was no premium payable for it. The approach F is referring to isnt one wed usually 
apply to a commercial policyholder in any event. In addition, F was represented by its broker 
in the purchase of this policy who was no doubt reasonably experienced in reviewing 
insurance schedules. Taken together I dont accept the argument that the document was so 
ambiguous that it should be read in Fs favour.
I appreciate that Fs broker thought it was applying for insurance cover as well as inspection 
cover but thats not something I think RSA were responsible for. RSA werent selling the 
policy so the way in which the cover was presented on eTrade isnt their fault. I dont doubt 
that the result of that application wasnt the outcome either F or its broker wanted because 
both thought they were obtaining insurance as well as inspection cover, but that doesnt 
mean that RSA needed to honour a claim where cover wasnt in place. 
Ive also thought about RSAs offer to settle Fs claim, deducting the premium it would have 
charged had F taken out insurance cover. I know F was disappointed this offer was 
withdrawn. And I sympathise with its position in this regard. The offer that RSA made would 
be what wed ask it to do to put things right if it had done something wrong. In this case I 
dont think RSA were wrong to decline to pay out on a policy that wasnt in place. Because of 
this I cant say the position it took was unreasonable. Had F done something it wouldnt have 
ordinarily done in reliance of the claim being paid, like repairing the lift (if it didnt have the 
funds to carry out those repairs, say, by way of a loan) then I wouldve been more inclined to 
consider an award for loss of expectation. But in this case F hasnt repaired the lift. I know it 
says it hasnt done this yet because the office is currently unoccupied as its staff are still 
working from home, but even if it had, I wouldve been looking for evidence that it wouldnt 
otherwise have done so had it not been for its reliance on RSA reimbursing it for this. In this 
case Ive not seen anything to support this so I cant say RSA needs to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Fs complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman