DRN-1091620
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which Mr B says HSBC 
UK Bank Plc mis-sold to him with a credit card in 1996. 
Background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr B doesnt agree with this and has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Theres very little information or documents still available for us to refer to although given the 
sale was over 23 years ago, this isnt particularly unusual. HSBC cant even say how the 
sale was carried out, which is unfortunate. Its also clear Mr B, understandably, cant really 
remember much either. 
So, in cases like this we use our knowledge about PPI, the businesses involved and what is 
more likely to have happened. For example, weve seen quite a lot of very similar HSBC 
complaints from this time period and from what we know about them, we think consumers 
were usually given the opportunity of either having  or not having  PPI with their new credit 
card. I therefore think Mr B would probably have been given a choice, by asking him to 
confirm in writing that he wanted PPI with his card account. 
In short, I think its more likely HSBC obtained his consent.
Because of when this all happened, its not entirely clear if HSBC recommended the 
PPI cover with the credit card. If it did, this means it was under an additional obligation i.e. to 
ensure this type of cover was suitable for Mr Bs situation. I therefore looked at his age, job, 
health and general circumstances to help me decide about this. 
I think that Mr B was eligible for the PPI and I dont think he would have been caught by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The cost was around £0.71 per 
£100 of the outstanding monthly balance on Mr Bs card. In my experience this is broadly in 
line with similar PPI policies and Ive seen nothing that suggests he would have found the 
monthly charges unaffordable.
Mr B told us he already had some sickness protection with his job, implying he didnt need 
this type of cover. I understand the point being made. Ive also thought carefully about his 
wider circumstances at the time and any other means he might have had. But Im afraid 
these things dont necessarily make the PPI to be of no use to him. In the event of a 
successful claim for example, he would have been able to have his outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. These benefits were accessible in addition 
to any other means he already had in place at the time. 
Taking all these things into account, I think its more likely the policy was probably suitable 
for him.
HSBC also had to give Mr B clear information. After such a long time I obviously cant 
confirm he was told everything he should have been told. But for me to uphold this mis-sale 
complaint, Id need to think it was more likely that the policy was unsuitable or there were 
other serious flaws in the way the policy was sold. I simply dont have that evidence. On 
balance, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back any of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman