DRN-3944836
The complaint
Mr R complains about delays assigning, surrendering, and then receiving proceeds from 
investments administered by St James's Place UK plc (SJPUK).
What happened
I wrote a provisional decision for this case last month. I also made some provisional 
decisions for other cases Mr Rs family raised with us. Mr R and his family have responded 
to all of these in a single submission. 
Among the points raised, Mr R and his family are unhappy with the level of detail Ive put in 
my decision. So I think itll help to start by explaining what my decision is  and isnt  
intended to be. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is an informal alternative to the courts. My decision aims 
to reflect that, by focussing on the crux of a complaint. I may not respond to every point 
thats been raised. And I wont usually give a detailed history of a situation. Ill just explain 
my opinion about a complaint overall, and the key facts Ive seen that lead me to it.
Turning to this specific complaint, the relevant facts begin when Mr R was assigned part of 
some investments in October 2020, backdated it appears to 29 September. A financial 
adviser had been writing to SJPUK to achieve that since July 2020. The assignments were 
delayed though for a few different reasons.
In a separate complaint made by the person assigning the investments to Mr R, Ive 
provisionally found SJPUKs communication with the adviser should have been more 
effective. Had it been, I found it likely the investments would have been assigned sooner.
After being assigned his investments, Mr R gave an instruction to SJPUK to surrender them. 
SJPUK say they received this on 23 October. A chargeable event certificate then shows the 
investments were surrendered on 26 October. SJPUK say the proceeds were sent to Mr R 
on 10 November.
A series of complaints were raised about the handling of the investments. This decision 
considers the delays as they relate to Mr Rs investments.
In response, SJPUK noted that theyd needed to verify the details of the account due to 
receive Mr Rs money. They said the details theyd received from Mr Rs adviser had been 
almost illegible. But SJPUK said theyd been able to verify what could be seen against 
details on a cheque they had on record.
SJPUK explained they felt the process followed was reasonable to protect Mr Rs money 
from fraudulent activity. But they decided to compensate Mr R for the delay receiving his 
money, working to it being sent to Mr R on 2 November, rather than 10 November. They 
paid Mr R a remedy that compensated him for interest at 8% on the delayed money. And 
they paid Mr R £250 compensation to acknowledge the trouble and upset caused.
Mr R didnt accept this remedy, so he came to us. In response to my provisional decision, 
Mr R and his family questioned our decision to split the complaints theyd raised into 
separate cases. But Im satisfied that accurately reflects how our jurisdiction applies to the 
complaints as theyve been made. 
The owners of the investments has changed over the years  primarily to improve their tax 
position. I can appreciate the strategy has been driven by the original owner, but that doesnt 
change the fact the customer of SJPUK for the purposes of our jurisdiction hasnt always 
been just them. 
I wrote last time that I provisionally upheld this complaint. Some delay had been caused by 
SJPUK. I set out how SJPUK could calculate if that delay had caused any loss for Mr R, and 
said how to put it right if it had. I also agreed the £250 already paid was suitable to 
acknowledge the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr R has expressed his disagreement with my assessment of the case. Ive considered the 
points that are relevant to this complaint when making this decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My reasoning hasnt changed from last time. So Ill largely repeat what I wrote in my 
provisional decision for this final decision. But where it will help to make my reasoning clear 
on a point raised by Mr R, Ill add to my previous explanation.
Ive considered the delays our investigator discussed in their written view. I can accept some 
of the delays here were caused by things not directly under SJPUKs control.
For example, there was an incorrect postcode on the letter of authority sent to them by the 
adviser managing the assignment. I wouldnt expect SJPUK to have accepted that document 
without further enquiries. While I appreciate Mr Rs comment that the source of the error was 
a letter from SJPUK that the new adviser was copying the postcode from , it was still for the 
writer of the later letter  not SJPUK  to ensure it was correct.
But as a professional company communicating with another business, Id expect SJPUK to 
be able to explain any issues they had with paperwork efficiently. Had that been done better 
than it was, its likely the request to surrender Mr Rs investment wouldve come sooner.
How much sooner is hard to know. But I find early September reflects what could have been 
achieved by Mr R and his adviser if SJPUK had communicated better. To be clear, thats 
saying the surrenders here could have been actioned at the unit values available on 
1 September 2020. Paying the proceeds to Mr R would then take further time.
In their response to Mr Rs complaint, SJPUK explained how a reasonable level of service 
would see that payment being made by five working days later. I consider that a reasonable 
timescale, even with the issues that have been mentioned about verifying the account details 
where the money was to go. So Im going to apply that to the 1 September surrender date.
Thatll mean payment would likely have been sent to Mr R on 8 September 2020  not 
10 November  if there hadnt been an unreasonable delay.
My understanding though is that the value of the investment would have been lower if 
surrendered on 1 September rather than 26 October. On the face of it, that suggests Mr R hasnt suffered a loss from the delay. But its worth noting that Mr R intended to do 
something with the money once he had it.
So to decide if theres been a loss, the gain the money could have made should be 
compared with the gain it actually made. There are a few different options for doing that.
Putting things right
Ive decided to take the approach SJPUK used when considering the delay from 2 to 
10 November  payment of interest for the period Mr R was deprived of his money.
Thats in keeping with our published approach in matters like this. A full explanation can be 
found on the Compensation for investment complaints page of our website, under the 
heading Interest where the customer is deprived of money.
Essentially, SJPUK need to work out what value would have been achieved if Mr Rs 
investment was surrendered on 1 September 2020. They then need to calculate interest on 
that amount for the period 8 September to 10 November. Ill call this the hypothetical value.
This will then need to be compared to the actual value Mr R received. Thats the money sent 
to him on 10 November 2020, plus the interest payment SJPUK already made to cover the 
delay from 2 to 10 November.
If the hypothetical value is less than the actual value Mr R received, then the delay hasnt 
caused a loss for Mr R. If the hypothetical value is higher, then I consider it fair to treat Mr R 
as having lost out by the excess amount.
For example, if the hypothetical value totals £200 more than the actual value Mr R received, 
SJPUK should pay Mr R the £200. On top of that, they should add further interest at 8% - 
from 10 November 2020 to the point the redress payment is made  just on the £200 
excess.
I can see Mr R has lost all confidence in SJPUK. So they need to make sure they explain 
their calculation of the above in a clear way for him, whether theres been a loss or not. And 
as with the interest payment SJPUK made previously, tax will need to be factored in. SJPUK 
should provide Mr R with details of any tax payment on request, to allow him to claim that 
back if applicable.
Aside from any financial loss, I can see Mr R has expressed how much this situation has 
upset him. Ive considered the £250 SJPUK paid as compensation for this impact though, 
and I find thats suitable.
The situation has clearly been frustrating  Mr R had plans for this money  but the delays 
here have added a relatively short time to the actual transaction  about eight weeks. And 
this wasnt money Mr R needed for day-to-day living expenses  it seems to have been 
reinvested almost straight after it left SJPUK. And nor was the money lost or at significant 
risk of being lost. It was just held up in its existing investment.
So with that sort of perspective, the relatively modest sum of £250 acknowledges the impact 
of the delays here on Mr R. Im not going to direct any further compensation be paid.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint about St James's Place UK plc. To put this right, 
they should complete the calculation described above, and compensate Mr R for any loss caused by the delay Ive noted. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman