DRN-2656452
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited have said theyll 
settle their claim under a home contents policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs J made a successful claim for damage to a three-seat sofa and a carpet. The 
settlement of the carpet part of the claim doesnt seem to be in dispute, so Ill not mention it 
further. But Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Lloyds wont replace two other chairs that form a 
set with the damaged sofa. The terms of their policy say theyd get that if Lloyds couldnt 
replace the damaged sofa with one that reasonably matched the rest of the set.
Lloydss response to the complaint said they felt theyd met the terms of the policy, even 
though the colour of the replacement sofa might take time to exactly match the existing 
chairs in the set. Despite that though, they offered Mr and Mrs J £100 compensation to 
acknowledge the disappointment they felt that they werent getting a new set of chairs. 
Mr and Mrs J brought the complaint to us. While we were investigating, Lloyds realised 
theyd offered to settle the claim for the cost of a two-seat sofa. They changed this to the 
cost of the three-seat sofa Mr and Mrs J had claimed for, and said theyd add 8% interest to 
the amount, to run from the date of loss to the date the claim was settled. They also added 
£50 to the compensation theyd offered previously.
Our investigator felt Lloydss recent offer was suitable to settle the claim, and so resolve the 
complaint. He felt Lloyds had done enough to meet the terms of the policy by offering to pay 
the cost of a new three-seat sofa in the same style and colour as the old one. He noted that 
Mr and Mrs J might have complaints about the colour of the replacement sofa when it 
arrived, but he felt these would need to be a new, separate complaint. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree. They felt this overlooked the delivery cost of the replacement 
sofa, and the time it would take to resolve their claim if they did have an issue with the colour 
of the sofa when it arrived. They also felt Lloyds were unlikely to agree with them if they did 
say the colour of the new sofa meant it didnt match the existing chairs. 
As the complaints not been resolved, its come to me for a formal decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Js concerns that the replacement sofa wont match the rest 
of the set, I find Lloyds have so far done enough to reasonably fulfil their part of the policy. 
So Im not going to tell them to do anything more. 
Ive thought about the chances of the replacement sofa reasonably matching the existing 
furniture. I can see a company that sells the furniture says the only way to be sure of a 
match is to buy the whole set together. But thats not saying the replacement definitely wont 
match the other chairs. 
Therere no samples to consider, or definite way of knowing, that I can see. So I think its 
reasonable for Lloyds to try getting just the three-seat sofa first, to see if thats a reasonable 
match. If it is, theyll have satisfied the terms of the policy to provide a replacement that 
reasonably matches the rest of the set. 
Mr and Mrs Js comments to our investigator show me they think the replacement isnt going 
to be a reasonable match in colour, and that Lloyds will disagree with them if they need to 
raise that with them. But I agree with our investigator that its better to see what actually 
happens, and whether Mr and Mrs J have any complaint about it. Im not going to factor what 
might happen next in to my decision, as there isnt enough here to say what will happen.
Looking at the settlement Lloyds have offered, it seems fair overall to put right their mistake 
of trying to settle the claim based on a two-seat rather than a three-seat sofa. I agree theyre 
now offering the amount needed to buy a replacement for the sofa that was damaged. And I 
see theyve said theyll pay any delivery cost Mr and Mrs J show theyve been invoiced for 
when replacing their sofa. Thats all in line with the terms of the policy, so I find the claim 
itself is now dealt with reasonably by Lloydss offer. 
The only question I have is over the interest theyre adding. The claim settlement is intended 
to allow Mr and Mrs J to buy a new sofa, not to invest or earn interest on. Any delay to 
settling the claim creates an inconvenience, which Id usually say is better recognised by 
compensation.
But thinking about the figures involved, the interest Lloyds have offered  together with the 
offer of £150 compensation  is on the same sort of level as the compensation wed typically 
recommend for this sort of delay and inconvenience. And  while there was a mistake in the 
settlement figure Lloyds originally offered Mr and Mrs J  the bigger delay here comes from 
the disagreement about replacing the full furniture set. Ive found Lloyds took a reasonable 
position on that, so I dont consider any delay its caused to be their responsibility. 
With that in mind, I find the compensation Lloyds offered is reasonable, although not 
calculated the way I would have done it. Given the overall figure is fair to Mr and Mrs J, I find 
its disproportionate to try to rework the specifics of how the compensation was calculated. 
My final decision
Ive decided to partly uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint about Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited. But I find the offer theyve already made to settle the complaint is fair in all the 
circumstances of the case. So my decision is Lloyds should:
pay £2,189 as a cash settlement for the claim;
pay simple interest on that amount at 8% from the date of loss to the date the 
settlement is paid, if this decision is accepted;
reimburse Mr and Mrs J for any delivery costs they can show theyve paid for the 
item claimed under their policy; and
pay £150 compensation for the emotional impact the claim process had on Mr and 
Mrs J. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 Paul Mellor
Ombudsman