DRN-2350979
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs H complain that Accord Mortgages Limited (Accord) have unfairly applied a 
loading fee to their mortgage transfer.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs H applied for a product transfer on their mortgage with Accord in February 
2018 as they intended to let their property. At that time, Accord said that a loading fee would 
be applied on top of the mortgage interest rate of either 1.15% if the let was unauthorised, 
and 1% if it was authorised. 
After going through the application process, Mr A and Mrs H were sent a product transfer 
offer letter on 6 February 2019 which detailed a loading fee of 1.15% as the let hadnt been 
authorised. However, they subsequently gained consent for the property to be let and a 
revised offer letter was sent on 15 February 2019, which was accepted.
Mr A and Mrs H complained because they said Accord later applied a 1% loading fee to their 
mortgage without telling them, as it was not detailed in their product transfer offer letter of 
15 February 2019. Accord said that the regulations did not require it to include the loading 
fee in the mortgage offer, and that it had been clearly set out in other product literature sent 
to Mr A and Mrs H. But it acknowledged they had likely caused confusion by including the 
unauthorised loading fee in the initial offer letter of 6 February 2019, but not including the 
updated fee of 1% in the revised offer letter. So Accord offered £120 compensation in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by this oversight.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She considered the 1% loading fee for 
authorised lettings had been made clear in other product literature sent to Mr A and Mrs H 
such that they ought to have known about it  even though it wasnt featured in the mortgage 
offer. Mr A and Mrs H disagreed as they said Accord sent some of their documentation to 
their rental address rather than their correspondence address. They also said their broker 
had been told by Accord that the loading fee would be waived. As they disagreed, the matter 
has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When Accord initially sent Mr A and Mrs H the application documentation in 
February 2018, it stated: Please also note that an additional rate of interest (an 
authorised lettings loading) will be added to your mortgage account interest rate 
from the date of the tenancy agreement.
An illustration was also provided to show the 1% loading with an authorised let, and 
also set out that a loading fee of 1.15% would be added to the mortgage account if 
the let was unauthorised. So Im satisfied it was made clear from the outset that a 
loading fee would apply irrespective of whether the let was authorised or not.
Before the revised product transfer offer letter was sent on 15 February 2019, Accord 
provided its consent for Mr A and Mrs H to let the property. It sent a letter on 
7 February 2019 which set out the charge: As outlined in your illustration, the 
interest rate on your mortgage account has increased by 1.00%.
The letting information fact sheet provided by Accord also set out the applicable 
loading fees: Authorised Letting: Where you let the property or allow it to be 
occupied with our agreement, then the additional rate of interest we will charge is 
currently 1%.
Mr A and Mrs H said they did not receive the relevant product literature and 
documentation that set out the fees. But I can see that all letters have been correctly 
addressed, so I think its most likely they would have been received at the intended 
address. I appreciate some may have been sent to the rental property address, but 
there was nothing to suggest these letters could not have been collected by Mr A and 
Mrs H. And in any event, I can see that letters were also sent to their correspondence 
address  including the consent to let correspondence of 7 February 2019, which set 
out the loading fee and was received before the offer letter. So Im satisfied they 
were aware  or ought reasonably to have been aware  that a 1% loading fee would 
be added to their mortgage interest rate. 
I appreciate that no reference to the loading fee was made in the product transfer 
offer document of 15 February 2019 or built into the monthly repayment amounts. But 
this is primarily because this documents purpose was to set out the mortgage 
account interest rate and repayments. The application and prior documentation had 
already stated that the loading fee would be added to the mortgage account interest 
rate from the date of tenancy agreement. The loading fee isnt necessarily applicable 
to the whole term of the product either and can change in line with different 
circumstances. So it did not feature in the mortgage offer (and neither did it have to). 
However, I appreciate that Accord may have caused confusion by detailing the 
loading charge in the initial offer letter, but not in the subsequent offer letter. But 
given that the charge had been made clear in prior documentation (and is set out in 
Accords terms and conditions) I do not think this means that it cannot fairly charge 
the fee. It has also offered £120 compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
caused by the confusion, which I consider to be fair compensation in the 
circumstances.
 
Mr A and Mrs H have also said their broker was told that the loading fee had been 
waived. But Ive seen no evidence of this, and Accord are also unaware of why the 
broker may have been under this impression. Nothing Ive seen indicates that this 
was agreed between the two parties. 
So, having considered all the evidence, Im satisfied Mr A and Mrs H were aware or ought 
reasonably to have been aware of the loading fee, so I dont think it would be fair to direct 
Accord to now waive the charge. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman