DRN-3918131
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs I are unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) re-debited 
money from their account following an unsuccessful direct debit indemnity claim they raised 
against a utilities company.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs I asked NatWest to recover direct debit payments totalling £1,449 that had 
been made from their account to a utilities company which Mr A and Mrs I said had never 
been authorised. NatWest raised a direct debit indemnity claim to attempt to recover the 
money on Mr A and Mrs Is behalf, but the claim was unsuccessful because the utilities 
company didnt accept that the payments were unauthorised or illegitimate. 
Because the indemnity claim wasnt successful, NatWest re-debited the £1,449 from Mr A 
and Mrs Is account  which they had previously reimbursed to the account in anticipation of 
a successful claim. Mr A and Mrs I werent happy about this, so they raised a complaint.
NatWest responded to Mr A and Mrs I and explained that they didnt feel theyd acted 
unfairly by following the process that they had, including re-debiting the disputed amount 
when the indemnity claim was challenged by the utilities comany. Mr A and Mrs I werent 
satisfied with NatWests response, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel NatWest had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A and Mrs I 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that NatWest have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations 
would be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr A and Mrs I have provided several detailed submissions to this service 
regarding their complaint. Id like to thank Mr A and Mrs I for these submissions, and I hope 
they doesnt consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with 
this services role as an informal dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr A and Mrs I note that I havent addressed a specific point theyve 
raised, it shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that 
Ive read and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr A and Mrs I and NatWest 
Rather, it should be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary 
to address it directly in this letter to arrive at what I feel is a fair resolution to this complaint.
When Mr A and Mrs I first approached NatWest and asked them to try to recover the direct 
debit payments made to the utilities company, NatWest raised a direct debit indemnity claim 
on their behalf. But the claim was unsuccessful, because the utilities company challenged 
the claim and maintained that the direct debit payments hadnt been taken illegitimately.
This seems fair to me, and I wouldnt expect NatWest to take any further action beyond this 
point. This is because, given that the indemnity claim wasnt successful, its now for Mr A 
and Mrs I to take this matter up with the utilities company directly, if they continue to dispute 
the legitimacy of the payments taken by that utilities company.
Mr A and Mrs I have explained that NatWest havent been able to provide any evidence of 
an authorisation given by themselves to allow the utilities company to take the disputed 
funds. But the direct debit instruction was received by NatWest from the utilities company 
through the AUDDIS system  a commonly used system whereby a company notifies a bank 
that theyve received authority to collect payments from a customers account. This system 
doesnt require the bank to see a signed direct debit mandate  its the responsibility of the 
company requesting the payment to ensure that everything is correct and in place.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that NatWest havent acted unfairly here. This is because NatWest 
processed the direct debit in line with a legitimate instruction received via the AUDDIS 
system, and because they followed the correct process by raising a direct debit indemnity 
claim when Mr A and Mrs I brought their concerns about the direct debit payments to them.
This isnt to say that the direct debit payments made to the utilities company were legitimate. 
But it is to say that any dispute that Mr A and Mrs I may have about those payments should 
be resolved with the utilities company directly, and that Im satisfied that NatWest havent 
acted unfairly by first processing the payments and then later re-debiting the disputed 
amount when the direct debit indemnity claim was challenged by the utilities company.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr A and Mrs I were wanting here, but it follows from all 
the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to take any further 
action. I trust that Mr A and Mrs I will understand, given when Ive explained, why Ive made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman