The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The policy 
was sold to him by HSBC UK Bank Plc to protect his credit card repayments against 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
HSBC has upheld Mr Bs complaint about the sale of the policy, but Mr B is unhappy with the 
compensation it offered him.
What happened
An adjudicator from this service thought the compensation offered by HSBC was fair. Mr B 
disagreed with the adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
I think the compensation HSBC has offered Mr B is fair and has been calculated how Id 
expect it to be. Ill explain why.
Before I look at HSBCs offer of compensation, I think it would be helpful to explain our 
approach when we find that a PPI policy has been mis-sold.
When a business mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
When working out how to do this on a credit card, wed expect HSBC to refund the PPI 
premiums and any credit card interest or associated charges caused by the PPI. Wed also 
expect HSBC to compensate the consumer for any periods when theyd been out of pocket 
as a result of the PPI. This should be at 8% simple interest per year.
In this case HSBC says Mr B had PPI attached to his credit card account from December 
1998 until March 2005.
Due to the time that has passed HSBC doesnt hold records of all the statements for Mr Bs 
account. But it does hold statement data for most of the time it says Mr B had PPI attached 
to his account.
So, HSBC has used the actual data where it has it and estimated Mr Bs credit card balance 
and PPI premiums for the few months it has missing data. And I think thats a fair way for 
HSBC to calculate how much Mr B paid for the PPI. Ive looked at HSBCs calculations and 
DRN-1715110Ive checked them against the statements sent to us by Mr B and I can see they match. So, I 
am satisfied HSBC has used the correct data for its calculations.
HSBC has calculated that Mr B paid PPI premiums totalling £378.89 during the time PPI was 
attached to his account and I can see it has offered to refund these.
I can also see that Mr B was charged £137.13 in interest because of those premiums. And 
HSBC has offered to refund this too.
HSBC has also added £444.72 (after tax) compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple 
interest for the time Mr B has been out of pocket.
So HSBC has calculated the compensation in the way Id expect it to.
But Mr B believes he continued to pay for the PPI well beyond 2005 and as late as 2015. Ive 
thought about this, but HSBC has shown us screenshots of its system which show the PPI 
policy was cancelled after March 2005. And Ive not seen any statements or other 
persuasive evidence to show Mr B was charged for PPI after this date.
I am aware Mr B experienced some delays when complaining to HSBC. But HSBC has 
offered to pay compensatory interest up until when it makes payment to Mr B so I dont think 
Mr B has lost out because of any delay.
In summary I think HSBC has calculated the compensation in the way Id expect it to and I 
think the offer it made Mr B is fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the compensation HSBC UK Bank Plc offered Mr B is fair.
If HSBC has not already paid the offer to Mr B it will now need to update its calculation 
before making payment to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman