DRN-3489546
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have refused to refund him 
for a transaction which he says he didnt make.
What happened
On 6 September 2021, an online transfer of £1,000 was made from Mr Ps NatWest bank 
account to an account at a different bank in his own name. Mr P reported this transaction as 
one he didnt recognise and asked NatWest to refund him. 
NatWest declined Mr Ps claim as they say he wasnt able to provide a credible explanation 
as to how the fraud occurred and the transaction was made using the same IP address as 
his previous online activity.
Unhappy with this, Mr P referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint and thought it was most likely that Mr P made the transaction himself. 
Following this, Mr P admitted that he authorised the transaction, but said he was tricked into 
doing so. 
Mr P explained he received a call from someone claiming to be from Amazon. In summary, 
he said that the caller told him his account was fraudulently used to purchase a mobile 
phone and he was due a refund. He said he followed the instructions given by the caller 
which were to download certain apps on his mobile phone and transfer money, in order to 
receive a refund.
We shared this new information with NatWest, and they explained their decision remained 
the same. They felt Mr Ps story didnt sound plausible as hed changed his full testimony. 
They felt theyd shown Mr P had made the payment himself and theyd reached the correct 
decision on his claim.
Our investigator didnt ask NatWest to refund Mr P due to the inconsistencies in his 
testimony. Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules, NatWest can hold Mr P liable for the disputed transaction if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself. 
NatWest have provided technical evidence which shows that the payment was properly 
authenticated via Mr Ps online banking. 
Mr Ps initial account was that:
He couldnt understand how someone couldve gained access to his account.
He believed his account had been hacked and the fraudsters may have got his 
details either when he was shopping online or when using an Automated Teller 
Machine (ATM).
He hadnt shared his personal details or security credentials with anyone.
He hadnt received any phone calls, texts or messages from anyone instructing him 
to move money.
He hadnt shared any authorisation codes received from the beneficiary bank. 
He didnt receive any emails or messages asking him to click on any links or respond 
in any way.
He didnt suspect anyone.
Mr P has since admitted to being tricked into authorising the payment. But for completeness 
sake, I find it difficult to understand how anyone else couldve carried out the disputed 
transaction, as Mr Ps online banking couldnt have been accessed without his security 
credentials, which he says no one apart from him knows. 
Ive thought about the explanation Mr P provided for how someone mightve got his details  
either when he was shopping online or using an ATM. But I dont think its likely that his 
details were compromised in this way, as Mr P wouldnt need to use his online banking 
credentials to make purchases online or to use an ATM.
The online banking audit report shows that the transaction was completed at the same IP 
address that Mr P used prior to, and after, the disputed transaction. I think its unlikely that a 
fraudster wouldve carried out the transaction from Mr Ps location.
Also, if a fraudster had somehow gained access to Mr Ps online banking without his 
involvement, then its highly likely that theyd have tried to withdraw more funds from his 
account. 
I think a fraudster would want to maximise gain before the account holder could discover the 
fraudulent activity and notify their bank to put a block on the account. But the online banking 
audit reports dont show any further payments attempted, even though Mr P still had over 
£8,000 in his account after the disputed transaction.  
Taking these factors into account and on balance, I think the most plausible explanation is 
that Mr P authorised the transaction himself. So, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly in 
holding him liable.
Ive thought about whether Mr P now admitting to being tricked into authorising the payment 
means that NatWest should refund him. Im afraid I dont think so. Ill explain why.
By his own admission, Mr P wasnt truthful about what had occurred and his change in 
testimony coincided with the outcome given by our investigator. Whilst I appreciate Mr P felt 
he wouldnt get a refund if he was honest, it does impact the credibility of his evidence.
Mr P hasnt provided any evidence to support his new version of events, for example, 
evidence of the scam call. He also hasnt been able to answer some of the questions weve 
asked about the call with certainty due to the time thats passed. 
Scams of this nature arent uncommon, but Mr P hasnt given us a convincing explanation 
for why he believed the caller was legitimate. He followed their instructions despite his 
suspicions being raised prior to making the online transfer, when he was asked for his card details. He also hasnt been able to explain why he was satisfied that the procedure to 
receive a refund would require him to download apps on his mobile phone, and for him to 
transfer money out of his account.
Mr P has told us that hed been a victim of a similar scam previously. Given this, Id 
reasonably have expected Mr P to have been alert and to not have continued with the call 
against his own better judgement. So, I think NatWest are entitled to hold Mr P liable for the 
transaction. 
Ive also thought about whether NatWest shouldve done anything to flag or stop the 
payment. I dont think NatWest could reasonably have prevented Mr Ps loss here. The 
transaction was for £1,000 which wasnt out of the ordinary for Mr Ps account usage. Hed 
made a similar payment a couple of months prior which he confirmed as genuine. The 
payment was also being made to an account in Mr Ps own name so there wasnt sufficient 
reason for NatWest to be concerned about the payment.
I appreciate Mr P has previously referred a similar complaint to our service. Hes explained 
he not only received a refund but was awarded compensation also. I cant comment on the 
answer we gave on a different case, as we consider each complaint on a case-by-case 
basis. 
And receiving a favourable outcome on a similar complaint isnt enough reason for Mr P to 
be given a refund on this case too. Having considered everything, Im satisfied NatWest 
havent treated Mr P unfairly and it follows I cant reasonably ask them to reimburse him.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman