DRN-4290292
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the service he received from RAC Insurance Limiteds service 
when he broke down in Europe. He said this ensured he incurred a significant level of 
excess costs due to its services failures, which RAC hasnt refunded. 
What happened
Mr H was in abroad in Europe with his wife and dog making his way back to a port to return 
home on a booked ferry when his car broke down on 1 November 2022. As it was late at 
night Mr H asked for recovery services the next morning. Mr H was anxious to get his car 
repaired as fast as possible so he could make his ferry connection which was specifically 
booked to accommodate his dog. He said the particular ticket he had to accommodate his 
dog was not freely available and they sold out fast. He said this meant it was difficult to 
accommodate his dog on a later or another ferry crossing. 
RACs agents duly attended the next day as required. It was decided Mr Hs car couldnt be 
repaired as quickly as needed to catch the ferry. So then Mr H asked if his car could be 
towed to the ferry as it was still driveable to a degree and that meant Mr H could get home. 
RACs agent agreed to this but explained it was outside the terms of his cover. However 
then arranging the tow plus a taxi for Mr H and his wife and dog was delayed which meant 
they didnt have enough time to make the ferry.
 
So, Mr H then arranged to get his car repaired himself which took about three days and then 
drove himself, his wife, and his dog back to the shuttle tunnel in order to come home. This 
took several days with hotel and food costs plus the new shuttle costs, further vet costs for 
his dog to travel, and fuel and Mr H obviously funded all of this himself. He said it cost him 
£2,777.00 and he claimed this from RAC.
RAC said it could pay him £764.51 which included the policys allowance for a maximum of 
five nights accommodation, the tow to the garage where he got his car fixed, the taxi costs 
to the garage to approve the repairs, and back to the hotel and then later to collect the car. It 
said the unused ferry home costs plus the unused hotel costs, the ferry back to the UK and 
all the travel costs Mr H had claimed to include accommodation, food, vet costs for his dog 
to be able to travel and tolls were not entitlements under the policy and therefore couldnt be 
claimed. RAC also paid him £150 compensation. 
Mr H remained unhappy. So, he brought his complaint to us. The investigator thought RAC 
should pay the cost of the shuttle costs which was a further £186 as a reasonable 
compromise. RAC agreed to this.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this along the same lines as the investigator. Ill now explain 
why.
 
When things have gone wrong like they certainly did for Mr H, we look to see what the 
business such as RAC here, should have done according to the terms and conditions of its 
policy and assess whether it has now done enough.
RAC was obliged to respond to Mr Hs call for assistance which its agents did at the time Mr 
H specified the following day, given the lateness in the day when his car broke down. 
Understandably Mr H was anxious to have his car repaired as quickly as possible so he 
could make his ferry. Unfortunately, RACs agent couldnt find a garage who was in position 
to do that. Further when Mr H organised to get his car repaired himself it also took three 
days so that shows me that its far more likely RACs agents were correct in their estimation 
of how long it would take to get Mr Hs car repaired. 
Mr H then asked if his car could be towed to the port so that he could catch his ferry as his 
car was still driveable but for short distances. This was a not service that RAC was obliged 
to provide under the policy. However, it did offer to provide it but then sadly despite there 
being eight hours until the ferry was due to leave, the agents couldnt get Mr H, his wife, his 
dog and his car there in time which was unfortunate. Having agreed to provide this service in 
situations like this even though outside the contract terms I do consider it confers some 
liability in the event it didnt happen. 
However, that liability must then revert to what Mr H was provided for by the terms of the 
policy. I dont consider that simply because an option outside the policy conditions was 
initially agreed and then attempted that means the entire basis of Mr Hs cover provided by 
RAC changes so dramatically that everything else that happened afterwards is then RACs 
fault. That wouldnt be fair or reasonable here. Solely because of course neither RAC nor its 
agents had anything to do with Mr Hs car breaking down in the first place. Its cover for Mr H 
simply provides assistance up the level of what the terms and conditions state if his car 
broke down. And of course, it hadnt provided any specific cover for Mrs Hs serious medical 
condition or the fact they had their dog with them, which made getting a later ferry or a ferry 
crossing after his car was repaired not reasonably possible. 
RAC rightly said that if Mr H had contacted it again once his car had been repaired it would 
have arranged further services for Mr H if it was possible. I appreciate Mr H felt it wouldnt be 
able to get the right ferry ticket for his dog, but crucially Mr H didnt permit RACs agents to 
explore the matter. 
I thoroughly understand and appreciate why Mr H took this course of action. His wife is 
suffering from a serious deteriorating disease, plus they had a dog travelling with them which 
would obviously need the right conditions to make any journey too which Mr H had evidently 
carefully considered with the special facilities that he had pre-booked for his dog for the 
original ferry crossing. But without making contact with RAC before setting out on this 
journey, so that RAC could explore what else could be provided for him, I dont consider 
RAC was under further liability for costs Mr H incurred save what he was entitled to under 
the terms of the policy.
I can see RAC calculated Mr Hs entitlements correctly within the terms of the policy at 
£764.51 and indeed has paid that to Mr H along with £150 compensation which I also 
consider is adequate and in line with what I would have expected it to do. 
Following the investigators view, RAC further agreed to pay the shuttle costs at a further 
£186 which I also consider was reasonable and generous as it was not strictly provided for in the terms and conditions for the situation Mr H found himself in. By this stage Mr H had got 
his car repaired himself and set off on a much longer journey taking several days to the 
shuttle service to get home with no further reference with RACs agents.
In conclusion whilst I do appreciate Mr H will be very disappointed, I am of the view that RAC 
has fairly done enough to make things right in these circumstances, more so with the 
compensation payment plus the shuttle costs. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that Im upholding this complaint. 
I now require RAC Insurance Limited to pay the shuttle costs of £186 to Mr H if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman