DRN-1355351
 
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy about how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited dealt with a home 
emergency claim under her Platinum Home Insurance cover.
What happened
Mrs W contacted Admiral to fix a leaking radiator. Admiral arranged for an engineer to visit. 
The engineer stopped the leak and topped up the pressure on the boiler, but the next day 
Mrs W had no hot water. Mrs Ws husband examined the boiler and found that the engineer 
had switched off the water supply to it. He was able to switch it back on.
Mrs W complained to Admiral. Admiral accepted that there was no hot water after the 
engineers visit, although it was unable to say exactly why, as the engineer had since been 
dismissed. Admiral accepted that Mrs W hadnt been given the job sheet and said that the 
engineer had signed this off himself, which he shouldnt have done. It also acknowledged 
that Mrs W had difficulties in getting through to the Home Emergency contact number 
provided. Admiral said it had fed back to the appropriate team that the phone number in its 
letter was incorrect. The person responding to the complaint also provided their mobile 
phone number and email address if Mrs W needed to get in contact. It offered Mrs W £100 
compensation.
 
Mrs W complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that 
Admiral had been fair and reasonable in how it dealt with the complaint.
As Mrs W did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For each of the issues raised by Mrs W, Admiral accepted that there was a problem. There 
were limits to how much it could investigate because the engineer, who was a contractor 
through another company, was dismissed during the investigation. However, Admiral 
explained what it thought had happened and why, including explaining that the engineer 
hadnt followed company procedure. It also followed up on the issues raised by Mrs W about 
contacting the Home Emergency team and provided alternative contact details. In the 
circumstances, I think that Admiral dealt with the issues reasonably and fairly. 
Ive also thought about the level of compensation that Mrs W was offered. In my view, based 
on the issues Mrs W experienced and the case as a whole, I think the £100 offered by 
Admiral is in line with what I would expect and what I would award in the circumstances. On 
that basis, I dont think that Admiral needs to pay any more compensation or take any further 
action. And I recommend that Mrs W accepts the compensation offered.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman