DRN-2207321
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs M. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1997 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs M was sold the policy when she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. In reviewing the evidence, Ive looked at the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what is more likely than not to have happened. 
Ive considered what Mrs M has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why. 
The credit agreement, which Mrs M signed, does set out the PPI as a choice. The box for 
accepting PPI is filled in by a printed tick  but then so are the other details such as Mrs Ms 
contact details and the items she was buying on credit. So its likely there was some 
discussion about what Mrs M was agreeing to, and that this was then input in the computer 
to produce the document for signing  and I dont have strong evidence to suggest that this 
isnt what happened. 
Mrs M has said shed have thought shed be refused credit, if she didnt also take PPI. I 
acknowledge that this was sometimes true. But I would need reasonable evidence to show 
that, in this case, AXA did make Mrs M feel she had no choice about the PPI. 
As a general principle of fairness, it would be wrong to expect someone (or an organisation) 
to prove that they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was so long ago. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago, so it can 
be difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything Mrs M now remembers. 
I cant say that there is the kind of evidence necessary to show that AXA acted wrongly. So I 
cant say that the PPI was mis-sold in the way Mrs M now believes.
Ive thought about other ways that the PPI might have been mis-sold but, as Ill explain, I 
cant say that they apply in this case.
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ms 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs M to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Mrs M clear and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other information was 
given to Mrs M. 
So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference. But, 
from what Mrs M has told us about her circumstances at the time, I dont think its likely that 
better information would have made a difference to her decision. (This is assuming she was 
given a genuine choice, which I accept she says didnt happen  Ive explained my thinking 
on that issue, above.) 
I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than Mrs Ms full 
employer sick pay, and likely savings, lasted. And it would have been in addition to any 
employer sick pay or redundancy pay; and would mean she could have kept any savings in 
reserve for longer. Also it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. 
So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful, and better information 
probably wouldnt have made a difference to whether or not Mrs M took the PPI.
So, in summary, I dont have strong enough evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman