DRN-3847138
The complaint
Mr G complains about the delays caused by Barclays Bank UK PLC and its solicitors which 
meant that his re-mortgage didnt happen by 28 February 2022 when his existing mortgage 
product with his original lender ended. As a result, Mr Gs mortgage went onto that lenders 
Standard Variable Rate (SVR) before the remortgage concluded. Mr G wants compensation 
for the extra money he had to pay for the time he was on his previous lenders follow-on rate 
and the stress and time involved.
What happened
Mr G had a mortgage with another lender with a mortgage product that would come to an 
end on 28 February. Mr G approached Barclays for a remortgage and got a mortgage offer 
on 11 January 2022. Barclays appointed a firm of solicitors on its conveyancing panel  I 
shall call that firm X - to complete the remortgage. Barclays says that it sent a mortgage offer 
out to Mr G and a copy to X with instructions to act on its behalf in relation to the 
remortgage.
X contacted Mr G by letter dated 25 January 2022 and Mr G supplied X with all the 
documents it requested by the end of January. X sent Mr G a text message on 2 February 
acknowledging receipt of the signed documents and saying that they would be in touch 
about a completion date. Mr G was on holiday between 19 February and 12 March and 
received no further contact from X. But Mr G realised that the matter hadnt completed when 
his existing lender took an increased monthly payment in March. X told Mr G that it hadnt 
completed because it hadnt got the mortgage offer from Barclays and X then, on 23 March, 
requested Barclays reissue the mortgage offer. The matter completed on 5 April 2022.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that 
Barclays had done nothing wrong and that X should have contacted Barclays sooner if the 
mortgage offer hadnt been received so, any fault lay with X. Mr G disagreed and asked for a 
review.
My provisional decision
As my view of his complaint differed from that of our investigator I issued a Provisional 
Decision as set out below:
Mr G was remortgaging with Barclays. It was important to him that the completion of the re-
mortgage coincided with the end of the fixed rate period of his mortgage product with his 
previous lender. A mortgage offer was issued and Mr G seems to have supplied all the 
information X required by the end of January and it was reasonable for him to assume that X 
would proceed to complete the remortgage and drawdown the new mortgage by 1 March.
But that didnt happen. X says the reason for that is that Barclays didnt send it the mortgage 
offer. Barclays says the mortgage offer went out in the post and Barclays says X could have 
contacted the bank if it didnt receive the offer. X says that under its service level agreement 
with Barclays it is prevented from chasing Mortgage Offers . Barclays says its unaware of 
any process that would prevent X from contacting Barclays.
Barclays instructed X to act on its behalf in the remortgage when it sent out the letter of 
instruction on 11 January 2022.That letter refers to a mortgage offer enclosed, and the 
package also contains a draft mortgage deed and a certificate of title. I believe that its likely 
that X got this package as that package contains its instructions and its unlikely that X would 
have commenced the remortgage process without instructions.
X says that it was prevented from completing because it didnt have the mortgage offer. 
When it did get a further copy of the mortgage offer it was able to complete the remortgage 
in about two weeks. It seems to me that if X had the mortgage offer earlier, and I suspect 
that it had it from early January, that it should have been able to complete in time for 
1March. But that didnt happen, and Mr G had to pay a higher interest rate because of that.
But this complaint is against Barclays. The instructions from Barclays to X dated 11 January 
2022 are to act on its behalf. The letter from X to Mr G dated 25 January 2022 say Well be 
acting for Barclays only in dealing with the legal aspects of your remortgage and we wont 
be acting on your behalf . Both letters indicate that X was instructed by Barclays to act on its 
behalf and not on behalf of Mr G. Mr G as a customer of Barclays was entitled to expect that 
Barclays and its representatives would complete this transaction with reasonable expedition. 
There were no external factors that I am aware of that would have prevented this 
remortgage completing by 1 March.
This remortgage should have been completed by 1 March and the fault for that delay lay 
between Barclays and the solicitors working on its behalf. Either Barclays didnt send the 
offer out to X or X mislaid the offer and Mr G suffered as a result. As X was acting on behalf 
of Barclays in this transaction, I intend to uphold this complaint against Barclays.
Mr G should be compensated for the financial loss that he suffered and the disappointment 
of the remortgaging not happening when it should have done. For Mr Gs financial loss, 
Barclays should pay the difference between the amount that Mr G paid on the follow-on rate 
with his previous lender and the amount that he would have paid Barclays on the new 
mortgage rate from 1 March until completion. Mr G says that this is £732.34. I would be 
grateful if Mr G would send me evidence of this. Barclays should also pay Mr G £300 for his 
distress and inconvenience.
Before coming to my final decision, I invited submissions from Mr G and Barclays, and I 
asked for information to assist me in coming to a figure on Mr Gs financial loss. Barclays 
said that they were happy to accept my decision. Mr G engaged with me about the evidence 
to support his financial loss claim. Barclays has confirmed the financial loss as £557.08, and 
that figure has been accepted by Mr G. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the evidence on this file in light of the further submissions from Mr G and 
Barclays and Im satisfied that my Provisional Decision represents a fair outcome to this 
complaint. The financial loss element has been worked out as £557.08 and as Mr G has 
been out that money from March/April 2022, according to our practice, Mr G would be due 
interest on that money. Although one of the payments Mr G complains about was made on 
31 March 2022, as Barclays calculations are done to the 7 April rather than 5 April which is 
of some benefit to Mr G, I believe, its fair to acknowledge that and that the interest on the financial loss should run from 7 April 2022.
Putting things right
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
1. Pay Mr G the difference between what he paid to his previous lender from 1 March 2022 
until 5 April 2022 and what he would have paid Barclays had his new mortgage started on 1 
March 2022. The agreed figure for that is £557.08. In addition, Barclays should pay interest 
on this figure at 8% simple from 7 April 2022 until date of payment. If HM Revenue & 
Customs require Barclays to take off tax from this interest, Barclays must give Mr G a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
2. Pay Mr G £300 for his distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
compensation as set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman