DRN-3300958
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled a claim shes made 
on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 25 January 2022, an extract of which is 
copied below.
What happened
A representative has raised this complaint on Mrs Es behalf and references to her 
actions include those of her representative.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so I have summarised events.
In 2019, while parked, a motorbike collided with Mrs Es car, causing damage.
AXA settled the claim and started action against the third partys insurer - 
Company A - to recover its costs. It left the claim status as open while it did this.
Company A explained it was no longer the third partys insurer so AXA decided 
to contact the third party directly to attempt recovery but caused a delay of 11 
months before it did this.
The claim status remained as open during this time and Mrs E received a 
renewal quote which she said was more expensive due to the status of the claim. 
She was unhappy with this and the way the claim had been handled and 
complained.
AXA said the police had been slow to provide information it needed to progress 
the claim and this had slowed things down. But it accepted it could have been 
more proactive and done more to keep Mrs E up to date with progress. It awarded 
£225 in compensation.
Mrs E remained unhappy and raised a complaint with this Service. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint and said AXA should close the claim and mark 
it as non-fault.
AXA didnt agree with the outcome saying it was entitled to pursue the third party for
recovery of its costs and leave the claim open while it did this. It asked 
an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While considering this complaint I will be keeping in mind an insurers responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly.
Initial delays and poor communication
Ive seen from the evidence that AXA did attempt to obtain the information about 
the third party who caused the accident from the police and chased this up when 
it wasnt received.
But the police responded to say provision of this type of information had been put 
on hold indefinity due to the impact of its staff working at home because of the 
Covid situation.
So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold AXA responsible for the 
delays that occurred as a consequence of this as it was out of its hands.
AXA has however accepted it should have been more proactive in keeping Mrs E 
up to date on the claim and its efforts to recover the money from the third party.
Its clear from its internal notes it caused a delay of 11 months when it failed to 
contact the third party and during this time, the action to recover its costs 
completely stalled.
I understand why Mrs E would have found this poor communication and the 
delays she experienced distressing and inconvenient. I think the £225 AXA paid 
for delays up to this point was reasonable.
The open claim status
In my experience, its insurance industry practice for claims to be left with an 
open status while an insurer attempts to recover costs its paid out, in 
settlement of a claim, from another insurer or individual third party.
I dont think theres anything inherently unreasonable about this. The 
alternative would be for the claim to be marked as a fault claim  thats a 
claim where an insurer has been unsuccessful in recovering its costs  and 
this is likely to have a more significant and longer term impact on a 
policyholder.
But I would expect it to attempt the recovery action as quickly as possible, and 
without unnecessary delay to minimise the uncertainty for the consumer and to 
avoid them being exposed to increased premiums, as Mrs E claims here.
AXA says the claim is still showing as open. This Service approached it on three 
occasions to give it the opportunity to explain what its been doing to bring the 
matter to a swift conclusion.
Eventually, in December 2021, it said it still hadnt received a response from the 
third
party and it was instructing solicitors but still offered no explanation about what it 
had been doing since the accident occurred in 2019. So, in the absence of any 
credible explanation about why things have taken so long, it seems likely to me theres been a further period of unnecessary delay.
Im conscious here that Mrs E has been waiting more than two years for her claim 
to be closed. I understand why this extended period of uncertainty would have 
caused her further distress and inconvenience and potentially higher renewal 
premiums.
While I accept AXA needs to be allowed time to pursue the third party, I think the 
delay Mrs Es experienced has been unreasonable in the specific circumstances of 
this case. And AXA needs to do more to recognise the impact of its actions on Mrs 
E.
Regarding the increased renewal premiums, Im pleased to see AXA has 
confirmed that once the claim is closed, if Mrs E is due a refund, she will still get 
this.
I concluded AXA should pay Mrs E an additional £300 and once the claim was closed, it 
should refund any increased premiums caused by the open claim in question that shes 
entitled to. And I gave both parties a chance to respond.
Both parties responded to confirm they accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further evidence or comments, and in light of all parties reaching an 
agreement, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions contained in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Mrs E an additional £300  on top of the £225 its already paid her - to reflect the 
further distress and inconvenience its caused her.
In line with what its already committed to, once the claim is closed, it should refund 
any increased premiums, caused by the open claim in question, that Mrs E is entitled 
to.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman