DRN-3874524
The complaint
Mr B and Ms H complain about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) and their decision to initially 
decline the claim they made on their travel insurance policy. Mr B and Ms H also complain 
about the terms and conditions of this policy as they feel they are unfairly left open to 
interpretation.
Ms H has represented herself and Mr B throughout the complaint process. So, for ease of 
reference, I will refer to any comments made, and actions taken, by either Mr B or Ms H as 
Ms H throughout the decision.
What happened
Mr B and Ms H held a travel insurance policy as part of their packaged bank account. This 
insurance policy was underwritten by UKI. In early July 2022, Mr B and Ms H travelled 
abroad on the knowledge they were insured by this policy.
Unfortunately, their baggage was lost during their return trip to the United Kingdom (UK). So, 
they contacted UKI to make a claim on their insurance policy. But UKI declined Mr B and Ms 
Hs claim, explaining Mr B and Ms H were unable to make a claim for baggage delayed on 
their return journey. Ms H was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint. During the 
complaint process, Mr B and Ms Hs baggage was returned to them unexpectedly by the 
airline.
Ms H didnt think the terms and conditions of the policy made it reasonably clear exactly 
what times were included as the day of the return journey. And they didnt think the exclusion 
itself was made reasonably clear, considering its impact on any claims for delayed baggage. 
So, Ms H wanted UKI to clarify their interpretation of this term, refund the premiums they had 
paid and also to cover the costs they incurred taking out an additional travel insurance policy 
for a subsequent trips to ensure they had what they believed to be adequate cover.
UKI responded and upheld Ms Hs complaint in part. They accepted they didnt take enough 
information from Ms H regarding the claim before they declined it initially. But they didnt 
think this impacted the overall outcome of the claim, as Mr B and Ms Hs baggage had since 
been returned. So, UKI were satisfied the baggage wasnt lost. And they thought the terms 
of the policy made it reasonably clear any delayed baggage claim for the day of the return 
trip would be excluded. So, UKI didnt offer to do anything more. Ms H was unhappy about 
this, so she referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She noted the baggage had 
been delivered to Mr B and Ms H and so, she didnt think the baggage was lost and could be 
claimed on the policy as such. And she thought UKI had declined the claim for the baggage 
delay fairly, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, due to the exclusion relating to 
the day of return travel. So, while our investigator recognised UKIs acceptance the claim 
was declined too soon, she didnt think UKI needed to do anything more.
Ms H accepted the baggage wasnt lost and so, couldnt be claimed for as lost under the 
terms of the policy. But Ms H maintained her belief that the exclusion UKI relied on to decline 
her delayed baggage claim was unclear and open to interpretation. And so, she felt UKI had 
acted unfairly and she wanted a legal ruling on the term, that she could rely upon for similar, 
future claims.
Our investigator explained our service cannot provide legal rulings, as were not a legal 
body. But they attempted to provide their own understanding of the exclusion and reiterated 
why they felt it was reasonably clear. Ms H remained unhappy with this response as she 
maintained her wish for a legal ruling to be provided. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr B and Ms H. I recognise 
the inconvenience they wouldve experienced being without their baggage following their 
return home. And I dont doubt the frustration this wouldve caused. I also recognise Mr B 
and Ms H ensured they had travel insurance as part of their packaged bank account to help 
cover them financially in situations such as the one they found themselves in. So, when UKI 
declined their claim, I can understand why Mr B and Ms H would feel unfairly treated. 
But for me to say UKI should compensate Mr B and Ms H, or direct them to take a certain 
action, Id first need to be satisfied that they had done something wrong. So, Id need to be 
satisfied they failed to act in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mr B and Ms H 
held when declining the claim. Or, if I think they did act within these, that it was unfair for UKI 
to do so. And following this, I then need to be satisfied that Mr B and Ms H were impacted in 
a way that satisfied me additional actions should be taken to recognise this impact. In this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain what Ive 
been able to consider, and how. I recognise Ms H has expressed her unhappiness with the 
lack of communication she received from UKI during the complaint process. But complaint 
handling is an unregulated activity and so, falls outside of our services jurisdiction to 
consider. Because of this, I wont comment on this aspect of Ms Hs complaint any further.
I also note Ms H is ultimately looking for a legal ruling on the interpretation of a certain 
exclusion within the terms of the policy. But our service isnt a legal body and so, were 
unable to provide this form of ruling. Our services role is to independently investigate a 
customers complaint and decide whether we feel the business, in this case UKI, has acted 
fairly and reasonably. Should a decision be issued, and accepted by a customer, this 
decision would be legally binding. But this would only cover the outcome of the investigation 
and any actions, if any, a business needs to do to put things right.  
If Ms H is unhappy with the clarity of a term within the policy, and wishes for this to be 
changed or clarified, this form of action would fall under the remit of the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority, rather than this service.
So instead, Ive considered UKIs decision to decline the claim and thought about whether 
this was fair and reasonable. And when doing so, Ive considered whether I think the exclusion UKI have relied upon is reasonably clear.
Its already accepted by Ms H that the baggage wasnt lost, as it was returned to them by the 
airline some weeks later. So, I think its accepted that there isnt a valid claim for loss of 
baggage and Ive instead considered UKIs decision to decline the claim for delayed 
baggage.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy, which set out when a claim for delayed 
baggage can be made, and to what values UKI will pay depending on the length of the 
delay. Directly below this information, the terms also set out what is excluded and so, UKI 
wont cover. Specifically, the terms state that UKI will not cover any claim for baggage that 
is lost on the day of your return home.
Earlier within the terms, with the policy definitions section, home is defined as the address 
where the account holder permanently lives in the UK. And its accepted by Mr B and Ms H 
that the baggage was lost on the day they returned home, to where they permanently live 
within the UK, from their destination. Because of this, I think UKI have acted within the terms 
of the policy when declining the claim, as the circumstances of Mr B and Ms Hs delayed 
baggage occurred on the day of their return journey.
But as I explained earlier within my decision, Ive also considered whether UKI acted fairly 
when relying on this term. And I recognise Ms Hs belief that the term itself is unclear, and 
open to interpretation.
While I recognise Ms Hs explanation surrounding this, I do think the terms are made 
reasonably clear. Ms H has queried whether day means the previous 24 hours, or the day 
itself. If the term was intended to exclude the 24 hours from departure, I would expect it to 
say so. As the term refers to the day of their return home, I think its made reasonably clear 
that if baggage is lost on that day, the claim would be declined.
I recognise Ms H has provided a series of scenarios where this definition may pose an 
issue, such as on a long-haul flight with connecting flights. But as Ive already explained, its 
not our services role to provide a legal ruling on the definition of this term, or how it should 
be interpreted and applied. The role of our service is to consider the actual facts of this 
complaint, individually and on its own merits. And in this situation, I think UKI have acted 
fairly when relying on this term, as the baggage was initially delayed on the day Mr B and Ms 
H returned home.
If Mr B and Ms H had their baggage delayed in a differing set of circumstances in the future, 
and they were unhappy with UKIs ruling on a claim they made relating to this term, then any 
complaint about this would need to be assessed again, on the individual merits of that 
situation. And if Mr B and Ms H are concerned about this term, and the lack of cover they 
feel it provides, then it is Mr B and Ms Hs own decision regarding whether they need to 
change, or take out additional, travel insurance.
I also note UKI have accepted they declined the claim too soon and they shouldve taken 
more information to understand if the claim should be treated as a lost or delayed baggage 
claim. But as its transpired, Mr B and Ms Hs baggage was returned to them. So, although I 
recognise UKIs acceptance they couldve done more to assist Mr B and Ms H, I dont think 
there has been an impact on this occasion that warrants compensation or any further action 
to be taken, as Mr B and Ms Hs claim would always have been declined whether or not UKI 
took steps to obtain additional information rather than declining the claim straight away. And 
because of this and all of the above, I dont think UKI need to do anything more on this 
occasion.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr B and Ms Hs complaint and U K 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman