DRN-2178364
The complaint
Miss C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) unfairly removed the 
0% interest promotional rate on her Virgin credit card due to an error with a missed payment. 
She feels that they didnt treat her fairly or sympathetically when she was struggling 
financially.
What happened
Miss C was part way through a promotional 0% credit card rate with Virgin Money in March 
2017. There were some problems with a direct debit payment for the March 2017 payment.  
Because the payment was not received on time, Virgin removed the 0% promotional interest 
rate from her account.
  
Miss C is unhappy because she checked the payment online and believed it had been taken 
and was all fine.  She was overseas at the time, and when she discovered the error, she 
contacted Virgin Money.  She feels they could have been more helpful and not cancelled the 
0% offer.
One of our investigators has investigated Miss Cs complaint and did not uphold it. They felt 
that the terms and conditions of the account allowed Virgin Money to remove the 
promotional rate if a minimum payment was not made on time, and that their actions were 
fair as they had made no errors. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I have considered whether Virgin Money were entitled to remove the promotional 0% 
offer. It is confirmed in the terms and conditions for the account that if a customer fails to 
make the minimum payment on time, the promotional offer can be withdrawn.  This is also 
repeated on the monthly statements provided to Miss C each month.  I think the business is 
entitled to remove the promotional rate if a customer doesnt make the minimum payment on 
time therefore.
  
Miss C is understandably frustrated, because she believed the payment had been made, 
and was not aware that it had in fact been declined by her bank. I think its important to focus 
here on Virgin Moneys part in that process.
As a business requesting a direct debit payment, that is all they can do. Theyve requested 
the payment as they would each month from Miss Cs bank account, and ultimately, Miss Cs 
bank have declined the payment. From what Miss C has told us, this may have been 
because of time zone issues and exactly when her bank has applied transactions and 
withdrawals she has made, as she was in Australia at the time.
 I completely understand Miss Cs frustrations with this process. She believed the direct debit 
had been taken, and only found out several days later that it had not.  She believed the 
direct debit had been taken and withdrew all remaining funds in her account.  But this meant 
that when the direct debit was actually requested, she had insufficient funds, and her bank 
declined the request from Virgin Money.  
Whilst I empathise with Miss C, this was not Virgin Moneys fault. Virgin Money have 
requested the minimum payment at the correct time of the month, and ultimately, Miss Cs 
bank have declined that request, so the payment has not been made. Virgin Money have not 
reversed the transaction, her bank has declined it.
 
Virgin Money have provided details of the notes from their systems of the conversations held 
with Miss C at the time.  I can see that when Miss C contacted Virgin Money a few days later 
to query the missed direct debit and arrange the payment, the person she spoke to said that 
it seemed she would lose her promotional rate due to the late payment. They confirmed they 
would get the department which dealt with this to investigate it for Miss C the following day 
when they re-opened.  This was done, and they confirmed to Miss C that the promotional 
rate had been removed.
 
I understand Miss Cs frustration with this, but I cant agree that Virgin Money did anything 
wrong when they removed the 0% promotional rate.  It was included in the terms and 
conditions that this could happen, so Virgin Money was entitled to remove the promotional 
rate.
 
Miss C is also concerned that she wasnt treated fairly or sympathetically when she was 
struggling financially. Having read the notes and transcripts of the conversation she had with 
Virgin Money at the time the 0% rate was removed, it wouldnt appear that she informed 
them she was struggling financially. I appreciate that with the passing of time, its sometimes 
tricky to remember exactly when different conversations have happened.  But I cant agree 
that Virgin Money did anything wrong here.
 
Miss C mentioned that when she missed some payments after this, Virgin Money sometimes 
declined to waive the charges for these missed payments. The waiving of these charges was 
discretionary. What this means is that Virgin Money was entitled to charge for the 
late/missed payments each time, but sometimes they chose not to do so. Again, the terms 
and conditions confirm that they could make these charges, and so if they chose not to do so 
sometimes, this benefitted Miss C. I cant agree that Miss C was treated unfairly when Virgin 
Money chose to charge for late or missed payments.
 
Finally, Miss C mentions that she believed she had complained at the time to Virgin Money 
and they had not given her the right to refer to the Financial Ombudsman Service when they 
didnt agree with her complaint. Im not able to consider this as complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity. However, it is apparent that Miss C has had the chance to complain now, 
so hasnt been prevented from bringing her complaint to the service. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Cs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman