DRN-3726866
The complaint
X is unhappy with the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) has dealt with his
home care policy.
What happened
X had a home care policy with British Gas which included boiler care. e complained to British
Gas about an incorrect email on his account and that he hadnt received his policy renewal
documents. He received an acknowledgement dated 23 July 2021 addressed to X and
another person with the same surname but a different title. He asked for an explanation as
the policy should have been in his name only. British Gas couldnt locate the letter but said
that the account was in Xs sole name and there were no details for anyone else on his
account.
X says that he also had problems accessing his account earlier in 2021 when he telephoned
British Gas and was told that the account was not in his name. British Gas havent been able
to comment on what was said during this call as they say they only keep call recordings for
90 days.
X says that he was also told during a telephone conversation that his 2021 renewal
documents had been emailed to him, although he hadnt received them. It became apparent
that they had been emailed to an address that belonged to someone else and that wasnt
being used by X. British Gas said that this was the only email address they held for X and
that it was his responsibility to keep them updated with any change of contact details.
Xs boiler was serviced by British Gas in April 2021. Later that year X was looking to take out
a policy with another provider and an engineer from the new insurer attended to inspect the
boiler. He told X that it was corroded and that this would have developed over a number of
years. He said it was not fit for use. British Gas attended to examine the boiler and found it
beyond repair. X complained to British Gas that the corrosion should have been picked up
on his annual service inspections and wants British Gas to pay for a new boiler. British Gas
say that there is no evidence that the corrosion was caused by any failure on their part. They
did, however, offer X £100 as a gesture of goodwill for any inconvenience caused. X
declined this offer.
Following the problems with the boiler, X wrote to British Gas on 22 September 2021 and
instructed them not to take any more payments under the policy as he didnt have a working
boiler and he didnt think they were providing any service. British Gas carried on collecting
the payments. When X complained, British Gas said that X was still getting other benefits
under the policy and that he had not actively cancelled the policy. However, they refunded
£154.99 which represented payment taken for the central heating part of the policy from 1
August 2021 to 27 October 2021 when the policy was cancelled.
X wasnt happy with British Gass response and brought his complaint to this service. Our
investigator looked into matters but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said
there was no evidence that British Gas were responsible for the corrosion in the boiler and
that as the boiler was over ten years old the policy didnt provide for a replacement. He was
satisfied that Xs name was the only name on the policy and that renewal documents had
been sent to the only email that British Gas had on its records. He thought that a partial
refund of the boiler care part of the policy was fair as X had the benefit of other services
under the policy.
X didnt agree but said that he might be prepared to settle for £500 compensation - and
asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 24 August 2022. I said: 
Contact details and communication
Ive seen the letter dated 23 July 2021 from British Gas to X. It is correctly addressed to only
X in the name and address section of the letter. However, in the body of the letter it
addresses X and another person with the same surname but a different title. It is a letter
acknowledging Xs complaint. I dont know why British Gas dont have a copy of this letter or
how the extra name has come to be added. British Gas have offered no explanation 
although I appreciate that X hasnt provided them with a copy of the letter. Looking at British
Gass records Im satisfied that Xs name is the only name on the account. I understand,
however, that this mistake has caused X distress as it was one of a number of concerns he
has regarding his personal details.
X says that on one occasion early in 2021 he was denied access to his account because he
hadnt given the correct name. British Gas havent commented on this as they no longer
have the call recordings. I know that X is concerned that British Gas are not able to provide
the call recordings, but I dont think that there is anything unusual or suspicious about this.
However, not being able to listen to the phone recordings means that I cant be sure what
was said. Im satisfied, however, that X must have experienced some problems as I think it
unlikely he would have complained if he hadnt. Whatever was said, I think British Gas could
have done more to check with X following this conversation that all the details they held for
him were correct. This clearly wasnt done as issues with Xs contact details continued. Apart
from their final response letter to X in November 2021, I cant see that they have ever sought
to reassure X despite being aware of his obvious concerns.
The problems with contact details also led to X not receiving his August 2021 renewal notice.
Ive seen a copy of this dated June 2021 so Im satisfied that it was sent. However, it
appears to have been sent to an old email address that was on the account and belonged to
someone else. This wasnt changed until July 2021 when X was made aware. British Gas
can only send communications to the addresses it holds and there is a responsibility on
customers to inform British Gas if their details change. Im not clear why this didnt happen
earlier, but I dont think this was British Gass fault.
Whilst I dont agree with X that British Gas have acted dishonestly in relation to his account, I
do think that the mistakes Ive mentioned above and lack of clarification regarding contact
details have caused X distress and inconvenience. He has had difficulty accessing his
account and has not received correspondence. X has been very upset about the possibility
of other names on his account. I cant see any evidence of this, but I dont think British Gas
did enough to allay Xs fears about this or his other concerns about his account details. I
therefore think it fair that British Gas pay X £200 compensation for distress and
inconvenience.
Boiler ServiceIve looked at British Gass contact logs showing their attendance under the policy. I can see
that they attended on a number of occasions in 2019 when they carried out a service and
fitted a new pressure gauge. Their next visit was in April 2021 for a service and the engineer
noted that he checked for obvious leaks and that all was ok.
I appreciate that it was only five months later that X was advised his boiler was corroded.
However, the boiler was very old and X has not been able to provide a report from the
engineer who examined it. Without this I have to rely on information provided by British Gas
engineers  and their contact logs show that there were no obvious leaks in April 2021 and
the boiler was working ok. The log from September 2021 says that there was a hole in the
case but without further evidence I cant say that British Gas were responsible for this. The
parts to repair the boiler were no longer available and so a repair was not possible. The
terms of the policy dont require British Gas to replace a boiler that is beyond repair and
more than ten years old. Whilst I understand that it must have been upsetting for X to
suddenly find himself without a working boiler, I dont think that British Gas acted
unreasonably in declining to replace the boiler.
Refund of premiums
In Xs letter to British Gas dated 22 September 2021 he clearly instructed British Gas not to
take any further money from his account. British Gas didnt act on this, and I think they
should have. I think it wouldve been reasonable to expect British Gas to write to X after his
boiler broke down explaining his options for cancelling or continuing with his policy. I cant
see that they did this. The result was that X was paying for boiler cover that he didnt need.
British Gas have now refunded the boiler cover from the start of the new policy on 1 August
2021 and I think this was fair.
British Gas say that X was receiving other benefits under the policy apart from the boiler
cover and that they wouldnt refund the full cost. Whilst I accept that X had the benefit of this
cover, he didnt make a claim and I think the policy should have been cancelled in full when
X instructed British Gas not to take any further payments. X would like a refund from 1
August 2021 but I dont think this would be fair. As Ive already mentioned, X had the benefit
of the cover from 1 August 2021 and didnt indicate to British Gas that he no longer wanted
the cover until September 2021.
I therefore intend to require British Gas to calculate the cost of the premiums paid for the
cover, excluding the boiler cover which has already been repaid, from 22 September 2021 to
the date of cancellation and refund this sum to X with interest.
Response to my provisional decision
X responded to my provisional decision although most of his comments relate to our 
investigators findings. He referred to the history of problems with communication on his 
account. He didnt accept that the reference to a third party in a letter to him from British Gas 
was a mistake and thinks British Gas documents have been destroyed. X also referred to 
ongoing problems with falling water pressure in his boiler over the years and that another 
gas engineer had told him that the corrosion must have been present for 4-5 years.
British Gas didnt agree that interest should be added to the premium refund. They also said 
that they have already paid £100 compensation to X.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully read Xs comments following receipt of my provisional decision, but I cant see 
that he has provided any new information. I would like to reassure X that Ive considered all 
the documentation and points raised by him when making my decision, but I havent seen 
anything that persuades me to change my provisional decision.
British Gas say theyve already paid £100 to X although my understanding is that X refused 
this gesture of goodwill. Either way I consider this separate to my award of compensation 
and did not take it into consideration when arriving at what I consider a fair level of 
compensation. My decision is that £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience is now 
to be paid to X.
British Gas havent provided any reason for not paying interest on the premium refunds. As 
X was deprived of the value of the premiums, I think it fair for him to receive interest. 
Bearing all the above in mind I see no reason to change my provisional decision. My final 
decision and reasoning therefore remain the same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
refund the remaining premiums on Xs policy from 22 September 2021 to the date of
cancellation of the policy;
pay interest at 8% on the above from the date the premiums were paid to British Gas
to the date they are refunded to X; and
pay X £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell X how much its taken off. It should also 
give X a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman