DRN-3367338
The complaint
A complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly declined its claim for damage 
caused to its chrome plating machinery and equipment. 
A is represented in its complaint by Mr C. 
What happened
In June 2020, the automatic function of As chrome plating machinery ceased to work. A 
submitted a claim to Aviva for the damage, which it initially concluded was caused by a 
breakdown within the control panel. 
Aviva appointed an engineer to identify the cause of the breakdown. Despite carrying out a 
number of investigations, the engineer wasnt able to identify exactly what had caused the 
machine to malfunction. 
Aviva declined the claim on the basis that the damage was likely due to the age of the 
machine and wear and tear. A raised a complaint with Aviva about their decision and said 
that having to wait for 21 weeks for a final response to its complaint caused it inconvenience. 
On 21 April 2021, Aviva provided A with their final response letter concluding the decision to 
decline the claim had been correctly made. In summary, Aviva said despite extensive 
forensic investigations being carried out, the only conclusion they could reach was that the 
machinery failed due to wear and tear which is excluded under the terms of cover. They also 
explained that the fees they paid to fully investigate the claim were necessary to determine 
whether the claim ought to be paid. Aviva paid A £250 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by the delay in issuing their final response letter. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, As representative, Mr C, brought the complaint to this 
service. He said: 
Aviva ought to have known the age of the machinery because their engineer 
inspected it annually and they would have been aware of the age of the machinery at 
the time they agreed to underwrite the policy.
Aviva have spent more in investigating the claim, than it would have cost to repair the 
damage claimed for.
Avivas expert wasnt able to reach a conclusion as to how the damage came about, 
so how could Aviva expect the policyholder to do so?
Aviva took too long to provide their final response As complaint.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and issued a view not upholding the 
complaint. She said:
The onus was on the policyholder to show that the breakdown of the machinery was 
caused by an insured peril. And damage caused by wear and tear wasnt covered by 
the policy.
Aviva, as the insurer, was entitled to carry out whatever investigations they deemed 
necessary to ensure the claim was fairly dealt with. Given the nature and complexity 
of the claim, it wasnt unreasonable for an engineer to be instructed to assist Aviva 
with making their decision on the claim; and
The £250 and apology provided by Aviva for the delay in issuing their decision on the 
complaint was reasonable in the circumstances.  
A didnt accept our investigators view. Mr C said A was additionally unhappy that Aviva paid 
a previous claim to A under the policy in 2015, without a loss adjuster or engineer being 
appointed, and without A having to provide any proof of causation. He said A believes that 
established a precedent thats relevant to this claim.
A requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I will explain why.
Ive first considered whether the available evidence supports As view that the machinery 
and equipment was damaged by an insured event covered under the policy terms and 
conditions.
Page 4 of the policy terms and conditions say:
Cover
We will cover You in respect of Damage occurring during the Period of Insurance to 
the Property Insured at The Premises by the Contingency shown against it in The 
Schedule.
The Schedule lists the Property Insured as Computer Controlled Machine Tools and it lists 
the Contingency as Sudden and Unforeseen Damage.
Page 4 of the policy terms and conditions defines Sudden and Unforeseen Damage as:
Sudden and unforeseen damage including:
(1) Breakdown
(2) Explosion
(3) Collapse
(4) Accidental Damage
which requires repair or replacement before normal working of the Property can 
resume.
Its agreed that the equipment broke down. A says that on Thursday evening it was operational, but on Friday morning it ceased to operate. So, the breakdown appeared to be 
sudden and according to A it was unforeseeable. However, the policy also stated that no 
cover would be provided for damage that was caused by gradual deterioration or wear and 
tear. 
So, Ive first considered As explanation as to why the damage was sudden and unforeseen, 
rather than, for example, by wear and tear. The only explanation provided by A for the 
breakdown is that a lightning strike or other power surge likely caused the breakdown. 
However, Avivas engineer investigated that possible cause and concluded, on the basis of 
weather related evidence and the absence of damage to other electronic machinery that 
ought to also have been affected by any such surge (among other things), that As 
explanation was unlikely to explain the breakdown. 
Avivas engineer carried out a number of other investigations and enquiries and provided a 
detailed report setting out the reasons for his conclusion that the likely cause of the damage 
was the age of the equipment and the condition of the equipment. On the basis of that 
evidence Avivas loss adjuster concluded that, it wasnt unforeseeable that the age of the 
control panel would render itself susceptible to failure due to its age, or the wear and tear of 
parts. Therefore, the cover offered by the policy for sudden and unforeseen damage 
wouldnt engage in those circumstances.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, I make my decision based 
on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I think more likely than not, happened. On the 
one hand Ive considered As suggestion that a lightning strike or electricity surge caused the 
breakdown, as their intruder alarm was also set off. On the other hand, Ive considered the 
weather reports that confirm there was no lightning near to the property at the relevant time, 
together with the other evidence detailed by the engineer, and Im not persuaded the 
damage was caused by lightning or a power surge. So, Im not persuaded the breakdown 
was caused by that sudden and unforeseen event, suggested by A. Ive also considered the 
examples of wear and tear of the equipment, included in the engineers report alongside the 
age of the equipment, and the incomplete maintenance records regarding the electronic 
elements of the equipment. Having done so, I think the conclusions reached by the engineer 
were reasonable in the circumstances, and Avivas decision to decline the claim, on the 
basis of that evidence, was also reasonable.
I appreciate that A is unhappy a definitive cause of damage couldnt be identified by the 
engineer. However, I think Aviva took reasonable steps to establish the likely cause of the 
breakdown. I say this, bearing in mind the absence of technical information and testing 
equipment the engineer needed to access to give a more definite answer, the limits on the 
tests A was willing to permit the engineer to undertake, and the further costs that would have 
had to be incurred to try and arrive at a more precise answer.
As Im not persuaded that the damage was caused by an insured event (that is, sudden and 
unforeseen damage) its not necessary for me to proceed to consider whether Aviva fairly 
applied the exclusion for damage caused by wear and tear. Taking everything into account, I 
think it more likely than not, that the breakdown was due to the age and condition of the 
equipment, rather than a lightning strike or power surge. I therefore conclude that Aviva 
didnt act unreasonably in declining As claim. So, I will not be upholding this element of As 
complaint.
The second element of As complaint Ive considered is the inconvenience A says it was 
caused by Aviva taking an additional 13 weeks to provide its final response on the complaint. 
I understand that Aviva has paid £250 compensation to A for that inconvenience, which I 
think is fair in the circumstances.A has also complained about the amount Aviva spent on costs and fees in investigating the 
complaint. However, a key element of the definition of a complaint set out in the Dispute 
Resolution Rules under which we work, is that the complainant has suffered financial loss. 
With regard to this element of As complaint, A has suffered no financial loss. Aviva incurred 
those fees and paid those fees. While A has suggested in passing, that this led to an 
increase in premium, the crux of their complaint is that Aviva spent more than the amount it 
had claimed, in investigating the claim, and that wasnt reasonable. However, as our 
investigator explained, it is up to Aviva to decide what steps it needs to take, to satisfy the 
regulators requirements, regarding its proper consideration and validation or rejection of a 
claim. In this case, the costs werent passed onto A, so didnt cause A to suffer a financial 
loss. I therefore have no reason to uphold As complaint about the amount Aviva spent on 
experts fees and costs in making its decision on the claim. 
The fourth element of As complaint is that Aviva had not followed a precedent it believes 
was set by the acceptance of a claim for a separate event in 2015. Im also not upholding 
this part of As complaint. An insurer is required to consider each claim made under a policy, 
with regard to the circumstances relevant to that claim. How it decided a previous unrelated 
claim is not relevant.
The last complaint point A has raised appears to relate to the suitability of the policy it was 
sold. A has expressed concern that given the age of its machinery, the policy didnt provide it 
with useful cover. However, if A wishes this service to consider a complaint about the sale of 
the policy, it first needs to raise that complaint with the broker who sold it the policy.
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman