DRN-3116828
The complaint
Mr S complains that State Bank of India (UK) Limited (SBI) provided poor service and 
failed to provide him a refund after he fell victim to a fraud.
What happened
In 2018, Mr S was befriended by a person he believed to be living abroad at the time. 
Unfortunately, it later transpired that the person was a fraudster intent on stealing Mr 
Ss money.
The fraudster informed Mr S that their father had died as a result of military action in 
the country they were living. Following his death, they claimed they were unable to 
obtain a large sum of funds left in his account.
The fraudster continued to engineer stories and convince Mr Sby using fake legal 
representatives and banking staffthat his help was needed to access these funds. And 
in order to do so, he was told hed have to pay a number of fees prior to their release.
Mr S was instructed by the fraudster to make three separate payments to three third-
party accounts. So, on 15 July 2019, he attended a branch of SBI to carry out the 
transfers.
Shortly after this, he discovered hed been defrauded and attended the bank in an attempt 
to recover his funds.
SBI contacted the three third-party banks in an attempt to recall the payments; but these 
were rejected. SBI informed Mr S that there was nothing further it could do. It also decided 
to close Mr Ss account.
Mr S, unhappy with SBIs actions, made a complaint. He wanted SBI to recall the money 
lost and compensate him for the way itd treated him. SBI didnt agree itd done anything 
wrong, so Mr S referred his complaint to our service.
An Investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint, but thought SBI hadnt done enough to 
protect Mr S. They concluded that SBI had failed to question the legitimacy of the 
transactions and processed the payments despite being aware that Mr S was vulnerable 
to fraud. As such, they recommended that SBI repay the funds lost and recommended it 
pay interest and compensation.
SBI disagreed with the Investigators assessment. It pointed out that at no point had Mr S 
informed it he was vulnerable or suffering ill health. It also argued that prior to the 
transactions, Mr S had been warned about potentially being defrauded; but still went ahead 
with the payments regardless. It added that it carried out due diligence on the payments 
and asked Mr S questions around the legitimacy. But as Mr S was generally rude and 
obstructive regarding questioning, it was unable to establish much about the purpose of the 
transfers. It said Mr S confirmed hed carried out his own research [on the investment] and 
confirmed some of the payments were going to a beneficiary known to him personally.
As SBI has disagreed with the Investigators finding and recommendations, the matter 
has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fraudulent transactions
Its common ground that Mr S authorised the fraudulent payments equating to £60,000. 
He was duped by the fraudsters into instructing his branch to transfer the sums to the 
three accounts held by third-party businesses. He was deceived into believing that the 
payments being made were for fees to release a greater sum being held; commonly 
referred to as advanced fee frauds.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr S was the victim of a 
sophisticated fraud. He presented himself at the branch, identified himself and signed the 
relevant paperwork to authorise the transactions. So, although he didnt intend for the 
money to go to the fraudsters, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the 
terms and conditions of his account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
But that is not the end of the story:
Regulated firms like SBI are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard 
to the interests of its customers (Principle 6).
Firms also have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to 
establish and maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with 
applicable requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for 
countering the risk that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 
3.2.6R, which has applied since 2001). And over the years, the FSA and its 
successor, the FCA, have published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive 
examples of good and poor practice found when reviewing measures taken by 
banks to counter financial crime.
Firms are required to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism requirements. In July 2017 those 
requirements included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example 
through customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the 
business relationship (including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken 
throughout the course of the relationship).
In addition, as a matter of good industry practice in July 2017, I consider firms should in 
any event have taken proactive steps to:
Identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something also 
recognised by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers 
Associations February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in 
vulnerable circumstances);
Look to identify and help prevent transactionsparticularly unusual or out 
of character transactionsthat could involve fraud or be the result of a 
scam.In relation to branch transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available.Its common 
ground that there were fraud triggers in this case because SBI staff did in fact intervene 
prior to processing the payment. SBI has pointed out that it doesnt have a specific script it 
uses to question high value or suspicious payments, but it has said its staff would have 
questioned the legitimacy of the payments prior to processing them.
The only evidence I have to consider in the circumstances of this complaint are a few notes 
that have been hand written onto the authorisation forms completed in branch. These appear 
to have been countersigned. In summary, one of the three forms confirm that Mr S knows 
the beneficiary and highlights the payments purpose as school fees. Another confirms
Mr S is aware of the beneficiary and confirms the account details. SBI has added further 
submission that there was more rigorous questioning, such as asking Mr S if hed carried 
out sufficient due diligence on the payment that had been highlighted for the purpose of an 
investment. But SBI hasnt been able to support this with evidence or written record, and I 
would question why it recorded and countersigned some questions, but not others. It has 
however stated that Mr S regularly attended the branch and was rude and obstructive to 
questioning. Having said this, testimony from SBI employees in branch where the 
transactions were carried out has been mixed.
One employee has highlighted that Mr S was irritated that so many questions were being 
asked and said that they were his funds and that the staff member should proceed with 
the payment as requested. They further added that Mr S said that the bank no right to 
stop his payments. The same employee has highlighted that Mr Ss responses to the 
questions asked werent convincing.
Another employee has provided testimony that Mr S was very calm and not aggressive. 
They add that Mr S gave all security related answers and at no point were they shouting, 
nor arguing, with members of staff.
I appreciate that due to the passage of time recollection can somewhat be distorted. But 
even if the first member of staffs testimony was accurate, it isnt uncommon for victims of 
fraud to be obstructive to questioning. In a lot of cases involving a victim of fraud, there is 
sometimes an element of fear or embarrassment when being questioned. And as with most 
cases, the victim cant cohesively answer questions as their stories tend to be untrue or 
given to them by the fraudsters. This, in essence, is the reason why questioning can be 
effective in identifying a victim of fraud or, at the very least, provide enough suspicion to 
take further action.
Here, it seems the level of questioning was basic. The members of staff involved in 
processing the transactions asked Mr S what the payments were for and if he was aware of 
the beneficiaries the funds were being transferred to. And despite the member of staff 
acknowledging that the responses to questioning werent convincing, it doesnt appear this 
suspicion was acted upon or further questions asked about the legitimacy of the 
transactions. I think further probing questions about the specifics of the transactions likely 
would have uncovered the fact that Mr S wasnt making the transactions for what hed 
specified on his payment instruction forms. And this likely would have heightened 
suspicions rather than quelled them as Mr S wouldnt have been able to coherently answer 
them; as can be demonstrated by the member of staffs suspicion from basic questioning.
In addition to this, there is further pertinent information surrounding this complaint that 
Ive considered as well as the level of questioning carried out above.
Shortly prior to the transactions (subject to this complaint) being carried out, Mr S 
attempted to open another account with SBI. When attempting to open this account, Mr S 
informed SBI that he was expecting a payment to the account he intended to open for the value of millions of United States Dollars (USD). This payment was the amount promised 
by the fraudsters after Mr S had paid the relevant fees to release sum.
SBI carried out due diligence on this account opening application and discovered Mr S 
was likely being defrauded. This is openly acknowledged in internal communications 
between members of staff at the bank. Branch staff were informed specifically that Mr S 
had likely been a victim to an advanced fee fraud and pointed out a number of 
irregularities in the paperwork hed submitted in support of this. Branch staff were 
instructed to speak with Mr S and inform him about these types of frauds and that hed 
likely fallen victim to one.
SBI has said that this discussion did take place in branch, but again, has no record of 
this. However, I think its important to highlight that SBI staffincluding those in 
branchwere aware that Mr S had been a victim of fraud and was vulnerable to such 
crime.
SBI has been requested to show evidence of any warnings or notes placed against Mr Ss 
account to alert members of staff to this vulnerability. But it doesnt appear from the 
evidence provided that this was done. Having said that, members of staff in both branches 
where the application was made, and where the transactions were carried out, were aware 
of this issue. I say this as Mr S attempted to carry out the same application in both 
branches and was rejected on the same basis; that they suspected he was victim to a fraud.
Considering the points above, I dont find that the level of questioning or due care and 
diligence was sufficient when carrying out the payment instructions. Mr S was known to be 
vulnerable to an advance fee fraud. He has then shortly after this attended branch and 
instructed SBI to make three payments equating to £60,000 to three new payees for 
separate reasons. I think this presented a concerning situation to the bank and I dont find 
it reasonable that it merely confirmed the payment destination, asked if the recipient was 
known to the consumer and if hed carried out sufficient due diligence on the investment 
he was alleged to have been making payment for. I dont think this was effective in 
identifying the fraud or making Mr S aware of the potential consequences of proceeding 
with the payment. So, I must now consider what I think would have happened if SBI had 
carried out sufficient checks and asked effective questions in the circumstances.
Our service has been provided with the documentation from Mr S highlighting the 
instruction to make the three transfers to the fraudsters. This was provided to him in the 
form of emails from a person purporting to be from a third-party bank. The emailsto a 
person adept in financial crime and fraudare in my view clearly fraudulent. And, to my 
knowledge, this was the only evidence Mr S had to support the payments he was making.
I dont think Mr S would have effectively been able to answer further questions about the 
payments being made. This lack of reasonable answers or potential evasiveness to 
questions, along with the knowledge of Mr S recently being victim to an advance fee fraud, I 
find would have been a sufficient to have reasonable suspicion of the transactions. And I 
find that this would have either prevented them from being made or for SBI to invoke the 
Banking Protocol and contact Police. As its more likely that either of these actions would 
have prevented the funds being transferred to the fraudsters, I find SBI should be held 
liable for their loss.
Should Mr S bear some responsibility for the loss
SBI has made several submissions around Mr Ss knowledge of the fraud and his 
personal circumstances. Its alluded to Mr Ss career as being one that provides 
professional knowledge of financial matters. Its also highlighted that despite Mr S being made aware by the bank that hed likely fallen victim to a fraud, he continued with the 
payments.
Unfortunately, none of the conversations warning Mr S that he was victim to a fraud were 
recorded. In the letter to him rejecting his application for an account, there was no mention of 
him likely being defrauded and I cant see that he was signposted anywhere for help; such as 
the Police. Nor can I see that notes were placed against Mr Ss profile to alert other members 
of staff of his vulnerabilities and the conversations had with him. Furthermore,
Mr S himself has indicated that he remembers no such conversations being had with him.
It is difficult for me to say for certain what truly occurred. But I would find it highly unusual for a 
financial business not to relay such important information to one of its customers for their own 
protection. Having said that, its also highly unusual that a bank would fail to record such 
conversations with a customer and record their vulnerability on their profile to alert members 
of staff and prevent further harm.
However, while I understand SBIs concerns in that Mr S failed to heed warnings regarding the 
fraud he was victim to, there are other circumstances to this complaint that Ive taken into 
consideration when deciding if Mr S should bear some responsibility.
Mr S has informed our service that he was diagnosed and is being treated for a large number 
of medical conditions that effect his physical and mental health; including dementia. Having 
reviewed his medical notes its clear that Mr S was particularly vulnerable at the time he was 
being defrauded.
I acknowledge that SBI were unaware of these conditions and staff members have broadly 
described Mr S as able in mind and body in the way he presents himself. But it cant be 
ignored that these serious medical conditions left Mr S vulnerable to such crimes and his 
judgement and responsibility were likely severely impacted by his medical conditions. Even if 
hed been warned regarding the fraud and even if the documents presented to SBI were of 
sufficient quality to doubt their authenticity, I find Mr Ss condition likely impacted his ability to 
see through this and use better judgement. Hed been targeted by experienced and 
manipulative fraudsters that were likely preying on his vulnerabilities and engineering him to 
believe their story.
It is for these reasons that I find Mr S shouldnt bear any responsibility for the funds lost.
Account closure
Businesses, much like consumers, have the right to close a customers account if they no 
longer wish to continue a relationship with them. Our service cant tell a business to continue 
offering banking services to a customer unless certain circumstances apply. This would 
include where a business has a legal obligation to provide the customer with a basic bank 
account under the Payment Accounts Regulations. That doesnt apply here, so Ive gone on to 
consider if the way in which SBI closed Mr Ss account was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
SBI has highlighted that Mr S had breached the terms and conditions of his account. It says 
that Mr S had attended branch and was abusive and rude to its staff. Mr S has said that he 
cant remember the specifics of the allegations made against him. As Ive already touched 
upon, Mr S has highlighted that he is currently undergoing medical treatment for dementia 
and suffers with a number of other medical conditions that affect his memory and cause him 
to become frustrated; and I think this is understandable in the circumstances. But SBI were 
unaware of Mr Ss condition, or that he was particularly vulnerable due to these at the time.SBI closed Mr Ss account providing 60 days notice. This allowed Mr S a considerable 
period of time to find alternative banking arrangements. And this is in line with what our 
service would consider a reasonable period of time. As such, I dont find that SBIs actions 
were unfair in the circumstances. I therefore wont be asking it to do any further in relation to 
the accounts closure.
Putting things right
SBI should repay Mr S the funds he lost as a result of the fraud. And as Mr S has been 
deprived of the funds he lost  its reasonable that SBI should pay Mr S simple annual 
interest on the amount from the day it could have prevented the loss to the date it settles 
with Mr S.
I must also consider if any compensation should be paid to Mr S for impact SBIs error 
caused.
I agree with the figure recommended by the Investigator of £250. While it must be 
acknowledged that the vast majority of the impact caused by this loss originates from the 
fraudsters that perpetrated this crime, I do think that the banks inaction and delay in settling 
Mr Ss complaint has added to this.
As Ive highlighted already, Mr S was having to cope with a number of medical conditions 
that no doubt had an impact on how he lived his day to day life. And I find it likely that this 
delay and lack of protection has exacerbated some of these conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct State Bank of India (UK) 
Limited to:
Refund Mr S the £60,000 lost as a result of the fraud
Pay Mr S 8% simple annual interest from the date of the transactions to the 
date it settles
Compensate Mr S £250 for the impact caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman