DRN-3569544
The complaint
Mr W and Ms W have complained that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has caused them to have to 
incur costs to an independent contractor following a claim under their home emergency 
insurance policy when their boiler broke down.
Although this is a joint complaint by Mr W and Ms W, for convenience Ill refer throughout to 
Mr W.
In this decision references to AWP include its agents and contractors.
What happened
The background to Mr Ws complaint has been given by our investigator in her view of Mr 
Ws complaint so I wont repeat it here.
Our investigators view was that AWP shouldve provided Mr W with the level of service he 
received from his own contractor who had attended to see if anything could be done to get 
his boiler working again at least on a temporary basis. She considered that AWPs offer of 
£125 for the poor service Mr W had received was fair and recommended that AWP 
reimburse Mr W the £708 he incurred for arranging for a private contractor to attend to his 
boiler. 
AWP hasnt responded to out investigators view, so Mr Ws complaint has been referred to 
me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator and Ill explain why.
Ive considered the terms of Mr Ws policy. Its clear that the situation he found himself in 
was covered by his policy.
The policy defines an emergency as: 
A sudden and unforeseen domestic situation which, if not dealt with quickly, will:
make your home unsafe or insecure
damage, or cause further damage to your home or its contents
result in your home losing its main source of heating, lighting or water
The policy expressly states that it covers:
 
the complete failure or breakdown of either the heating and/or hot-water supply 
provided by the primary heating system.
Mr W had informed AWP that his household comprised vulnerable people. The need to 
ensure that heating and hot water were restored was therefore a priority. He has said that he 
had taken out the policy with the objective of avoiding being in such a situation. He says he 
expected a home emergency policy to provide prompt help to address any emergency 
covered by the policy. I consider this was an entirely reasonable expectation on his part. 
But due to what appears to be a breakdown in communication between AWP and its 
contractors, AWP wasnt informed by its contractors that, following an earlier visit on 28 
October 2020, they had declared the boiler to be beyond economical repair (BER) because it 
was 15 years old and needed a new fan and printed circuit board (PCB). It said that as parts 
were difficult to get, a new boiler was required. AWP has said that if its contractors had told it 
that they had deemed the boiler to be BER, it couldve explained the decision to Mr W and 
provided recommendations on the best course of action to take next.
Following Mr Ws call on 7 November 2020 when his boiler broke down again, there was no 
attempt by AWP to get the boiler working again even on a temporary basis, which was all 
that Mr W wanted as he was moving out of the house at the end of the month. He was 
placed in a pressured situation with very little time within which to arrange for a new boiler to 
be installed before he moved out of the property.
Mr W therefore contacted an independent contractor who said he wasnt able to fit a new 
boiler for at least a month but volunteered to attend to see what could be done. As Mr W has 
said, he treated Mr Ws plight as an emergency whereas the policy he had paid for from 
AWP failed to do so. He got the boiler working again after having replaced an air pressure 
switch, PCB, and an electrode lead. This cost Mr W £708 - £275 + VAT for labour and £315 
+ VAT for parts. The claims limit under Mr Ws policy for call out, labour and material costs is 
£1,000.
I think its reasonable to conclude that if AWP had attended on 7 November when asked to 
do by Mr W, it shouldve been able to come to the same diagnosis and been able to source 
the same parts, and there wouldve been no need for Mr W to contact another contractor.
AWP has accepted that the level of service it provided to Mr W fell below the standards he 
was entitled to receive. It apologised to Mr W and offered him £125 as a goodwill gesture. Mr 
W wants to be reimbursed for what he had to pay his own contractor.
My conclusion is that it was reasonable in the circumstances for Mr W to contact an 
independent contractor as AWP had not offered to revisit the boiler to see what parts might 
be needed and if those parts were readily available, and to attempt a repair. The necessary 
parts were available, and a repair was possible, and Mr Ws contractor was able to restore 
Mr Ws heating and hot water. He had done what Mr W rightly expected AWP to have done 
under his policy.
I therefore consider that it would be fair for AWP to reimburse Mr W the £708 he had to pay 
his contractor to restore his hot water and heating. I also consider that AWPs offer of £125 
is fair compensation for the upset which he suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr W and Ms Ws complaint.
I require AWP P&C SA to reimburse to them the £708 they paid to their own contractor.I also require AWP P&C SA to pay interest on this sum at the simple rate of 8% from the 
date they paid their contractor to the date that payment is made to them by AWP P&C SA.
If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W and Ms W how much its taken off. It should also 
give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I also require AWP P&C SA to pay Mr W and Ms W the £125 it offered them as 
compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman