DRN-4119548
The complaint
Mr M complains through a representative that Buffa Loans Ltd (Buffa) gave him loans 
without carrying out proportionate affordability checks.
What happened
Mr M took three loans from Buffa, and Ive outlined a summary of his borrowing below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentsinstalment
amount
1 £400.00 16/07/2020 02/10/2020 3 £179.89
2 £300.00 31/01/2021 10/02/2021 5 £108.49
3 £350.00 14/04/2021 05/10/2021 6 £106.53
In response to Mr Ms representatives complaint, Buffa issued its final response letter. In 
summary, it said it had carried out proportionate checks which showed these loans were 
affordable and so it didnt uphold the complaint. Mr Ms representative didnt agree and 
instead referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt uphold it. He concluded the 
checks carried out by Buffa were proportionate and showed the loans to be affordable. He 
said Buffa hadnt needed to review Mr Ms bank statements before the loans were approved. 
Mr M and his representative didnt agree with the outcome, and Ive summarised the 
response below:
Buffas checks needed to go further due to the delinquent defaulted accounts on 
Mr Ms credit file. 
Had Buffa carried out further checks, it wouldve seen Mr M was spending significant 
amounts of money each month gambling and so the loans werent affordable. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Buffa had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Buffas checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Buffa should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. 
Buffa was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay
his loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.
Buffa has shown, that as part of the affordability assessment before it approved these loans 
it asked Mr M for details of his income and expenditure. Mr Ms income has been recorded 
as being £2,500 per month when loan 1 was advanced and then £2,800 per month when 
loans 2 and 3 were provided.  
Mr M also asked to declare his outgoings for rent, utilities, credit commitments and other. 
These costs were declared as being £400 at loan 1 and £350 for loans 2 and 3. Mr M was 
assessed as having a minimum disposable income of £2,100 per month when loan 1 was 
approved. 
In addition, before these loans were approved Buffa also carried out a credit search and it 
has provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of the results it received from the credit
reference agency for each loan. I want to add that although Buffa carried out a credit search 
there isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what
Buffa couldnt do, is carry out a credit search and then not react to the to the information it 
received  if necessary.
Having reviewed the credit check results for each loan, there isnt anything that wouldve 
indicated that Mr M was having financial difficulties, for example it knew there were no 
insolvency markers, or debt management plans and Mr M hadnt defaulted on any accounts 
within the previous year before loan 1 was advanced. And during the time of the lending 
Mr M hadnt defaulted on any further accounts. Buffa was aware of four defaults, but these were all recorded at the end of 2017 into 2018 
and given this was over two years before loan 1 was advanced, I think these were too far 
removed from the loan start dates to have given Buffa any concerns. 
And while there were delinquency markers  which indicated missed payments, the most 
recent of these was recorded around six months before the first loan was approved. And the 
results indicate that no further accounts entered delinquency by the time of loan 3 was 
advanced.  
In my view, there wasnt anything, solely from the credit check results that ought to have led 
Buffa to either have carried out further checks such as reviewing bank statements or to have 
prompted it to have declined Mr Ms application for credit. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Buffa to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Mr M had provided. So, while Mr M has provided his bank statements, in this case, it 
wouldve been disproportionate for Buffa to have considered them. And this also means that 
Buffa wasnt aware of Mr Ms gambling. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, the lending wasnt consecutive  by which I 
mean there are small breaks between one loan being repaid and another being granted. I 
think it was reasonable for Buffa to have relied on the information Mr M provided to show he 
had sufficient disposable income to afford the loan repaymetns. There also wasnt anything 
else to suggest that Mr M was having financial difficulties or that the loan repayments would 
be unsustainable for him. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman