DRN-3651198
The complaint
Mr B complains that on multiple occasions, The Prudential Assurance Company Limited sent 
correspondence to him at the wrong address. Mr B says that despite asking Prudential to 
update their records, they failed to act. Hes now concerned this has put him at risk of 
identity theft causing him significant anxiety.
What happened
In December 2019 and then again in January 2020, Mr B wrote to Prudential asking them to 
update their records after hed moved address. Despite asking Prudential to make the 
amendment, Mr B says they continued to send his statements to his old home. When his 
pension statements eventually found their way to him, he says it was evident the envelopes 
had been opened.
Mr B explained he first realised there was a problem when his 2020 statement went to his 
old address. After contacting Prudential again via their online chat function, he understood it 
had been resolved.
When his next statement went to his old address, he raised a complaint with Prudential in 
April 2021. At that point, Prudential apologised and assured Mr B theyd put their records 
straight. They also sent him £250 to say sorry.
Thinking the issue had been resolved, Mr B then discovered his next annual statement had 
been sent to his old address and again, found himself having to complain to Prudential. In 
April 2022, Prudential wrote to Mr B explaining the background to how the error had 
occurred and provided an assurance that this time, their records had been put right. They 
also explained theyd noted the mistake as a breach. Prudential offered Mr B an additional 
£300 as a gesture of goodwill for the upset theyd caused him.
Unhappy with Prudentials response, Mr B recontacted them and said in summary that he 
didnt feel theyd got to the heart of his concerns. He was concerned about the integrity of 
their IT systems and what Prudentials errors could have caused. Mr B felt it could lead to 
fraud being committed in his name. He said the trouble and upset this caused him in trying to 
get Prudential to put things right had seriously impacted his mental health.
Prudential responded, again apologising. They explained they have robust systems in place 
to prevent fraud but, as a further gesture of goodwill, they sent Mr B an additional £150 for 
the trouble of having to write in again. Mr B remained unhappy with Prudentials response. 
He didnt think theyd explored why there were delays in acknowledging his complaint along 
with the time they took to resolve things for him. In their response to Mr B, Prudential again 
apologised for their errors and offered Mr B a further £300, taking their total redress to 
£1,000.
Unhappy with Prudentials response, Mr B then referred his complain to this service. In 
summary, he said he didnt feel theyd taken his concerns seriously, particularly the distress 
and anxiety he said hed suffered as a consequence of Prudentials errors.
The complaint was then considered by one of our investigators. She concluded that in their 
response to Mr B, despite taking a number of attempts to do so, Prudential had treated Mr B 
fairly overall. She also said in summary, that she felt Prudential had addressed all of Mr Bs 
various concerns and concluded their latest resolution letter demonstrated how seriously 
theyd taken the matter. She thought the £1,000 theyd offered Mr B was fair and reasonable.
Mr B however, disagreed with our investigators findings. In summary, he said the 
investigator had not fully understood the impact Prudentials actions had taken on his health 
nor the countless hours hed had to spend trying to resolve this. Our investigator was not 
persuaded to change her view as Mr B did not present any new arguments shed not already 
considered or responded to. Mr B asked the investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman 
to review that outcome.
In March 2023, the case was passed to an Ombudsman. As part of his considerations, he 
asked for clarification on an issue from Mr B. In response, Mr B explained that despite 
Prudentials assurances his address had been corrected, he had that day received a further 
letter from Prudential that had been sent to his old home. The pictures he sent appeared to 
show the envelope had been opened and sellotaped shut.
Prudential were asked to investigate how this had occurred. They explained theyd identified 
that an end date hadnt been added to their systems which is why correspondence kept 
being sent to his old address. To say sorry, Prudential offered Mr B a further £500 for the 
trouble theyd caused him and explained and confirmed the issue had now been resolved 
once and for all.
Mr B was asked to consider Prudentials offer. He responded to this service by explaining 
that he didnt feel it was enough. He said hes had repeated assurances from Prudential 
previously and despite that, theyve still let him down. He said hell only stop worrying when 
he receives his next statement which wont be until February 2024. He says its seriously 
impacted his health as its on his mind daily and is now at a very low ebb with it. He asked 
for the Ombudsman to continue with their review of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought carefully about Mr Bs concerns, I think Prudential have compensated him 
fairly for the mistakes theyve made. Whilst I appreciate Mr B will likely be disappointed, Ill 
explain why below. 
Before I do, I think its important to acknowledge we are an informal dispute resolution 
service, and my role is to look solely at the impact this mistake has had on Mr B and not to 
penalise or investigate Prudentials data protection and IT systems. 
Whats in no doubt here is whether Prudential were right to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Prudential have apologised for failing to get the change of address done correctly. Theyve 
also said sorry for the multiple additional steps along the way that necessitated Mr B having 
to get in touch with them. So, whats at the heart of this complaint is whether the £1,500 that Prudential have offered Mr B is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset theyve caused 
him. Cases such as this are often subjective in nature because its difficult to place a 
monetary amount on the impact a mistake has had on an individual. Thats because the 
impact of a mistake varies between consumers. So, Ive looked very closely at what Mr B 
has told both us and Prudential in helping shape my decision and carefully considered the 
amount of time Mr Bs concerns have continued for.
I can well understand Mr Bs frustration in having to wait three years for his address to be put 
right. And, having reviewed each of the four complaint resolution letters Prudential have sent 
Mr B along with their most recent explanation about why the error occurred, Im satisfied that 
Prudential have addressed the crux of his concerns. That is to say, the delays in responding 
to his communications and continually sending correspondence to the incorrect address. 
Prudential also provided some context in their resolution letters that set out why the errors 
occurred. They also agree with Mr B that taking three years to alter an address isnt a 
service level theyre comfortable with. I think whats inflamed the problem is, up until 
February 2023, Prudential were convinced theyd resolved the issue but then Mr B was sent 
a further letter addressed to his old home. So, understandably, hes reluctant to place any 
weight on their assurances. However, when deciding upon an award for the trouble and 
upset a firm has caused, I also need to consider the impact of Prudentials mistake on Mr B.
Mr B has explained hes concerned a third party could use his information to impersonate 
him and access his savings or commit fraud. Prudential have provided an assurance around 
the robustness of their security controls, which theyre satisfied would prevent a third-party 
accessing Mr Bs money if they came into receipt of his policy information. In addition, 
theyve also explained theyre satisfied having undertaken a review of his account, theyve 
seen no evidence of anyone trying to access his pension. I can however understand Mr Bs 
secondary concern which is that an individual could use his information in a malign way 
elsewhere. But, when asked if he had been a victim of identity fraud, Mr B didnt suggest he 
had been although I do accept such events come sometimes take time to materialise. So, as 
he hasnt been a victim of identity fraud, we cannot compensate him for something that 
hasnt happened. However, thats not to say he shouldnt be compensated for the worry that 
it might happen in the future.
Allied to this, Ive also given consideration to the nature of the information Prudential sent to 
the wrong address. Ive looked at the statements and letters that Mr B was sent. One of the 
statements notes his national insurance number, another his former employer, as well as 
policy numbers and full name so, theres no doubt Prudential have shared information they 
shouldnt have. 
Ive also given much thought to the impact this whole journey has had on Mr Bs health. Hes 
told this service its caused him great anxiety and taken a large toll on his mental wellbeing. 
Hes explained hes at a very low ebb given the amount of time he spends thinking about the 
issue. I think most consumers would find such an experience frustrating, particularly when 
he was assured by Prudential the error had been rectified but then discovered another letter 
had been sent to his old address as recently as February 2023. Mr B says hes not going to 
stop worrying until he gets his next statement which isnt due until February 2024. However, 
from what Prudential have shown me, Im satisfied they now seem to have identified how 
and importantly why the mistake occurred, and have put it right. 
Summary
Im of the view that Mr B should be recompensed for the trouble and upset Prudentials 
actions have caused. In doing so, Ive thought carefully about the level of redress Prudential 
have already offered Mr B. As Ive already explained above, Ive also thought about the 
materiality of the mistakes theyve made. Our awards are not punitive; we do not award compensation to discipline businesses. Instead, we make compensatory awards which 
account for the impact of any upset caused. Whilst this service assesses each case on its 
own individual merits, we try and apply an element of consistency when determining how 
much to award a consumer whos suffered trouble and upset. 
Ive taken into account the inconvenience Mr B has suffered, including the number of 
occasions hes had to ask Prudential to put things right including the additional repeat issue 
in March 2023. As Ive already explained, Ive also thought about the nature of the 
information enclosed in the letters and importantly, the anxiety and impact Mr B says this 
has had on his health. I think the £1,500 Prudential offered recognises the seriousness of 
the issue and the impact theyve had on Mr B. As I believe the £1,500 is fair and reasonable, 
I am not going to instruct Prudential to make any further payment to Mr B.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and as such, my decision is that I wont be asking The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman