DRN-2824306
The complaint
 A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc allowed a former 
director to take money from T's bank account.
Mr J and Ms H, the current directors of T, bring this complaint on Ts behalf. I will refer to the 
former director as Mr G.
What happened
Mr J and Ms H told us:
T originally had four directors, including themselves. 
Mr G resigned as a director in 2015, and the fourth director slightly later. (The fourth 
director plays no role in this complaint.)
In 2015, they asked Barclays to remove Mr G from the mandate for T's bank account. 
They also asked Barclays to remove Mr G from the mandate for another limited 
company they owned, which I will call E.
Much later, in 2019, they discovered Mr G had not in fact been removed from the 
mandate for Ts account  he had only been removed from the mandate for E. That 
meant Mr G remained on the mandate for Ts bank account until 2019.
 
Between 2015 and mid-2019, Mr G gave instructions to Barclays to move tens of 
thousands of pounds from T's bank account to accounts under Mr Gs control. 
Barclays followed those instructions. Nearly £20,000 of that money was transferred 
on or after 1 April 2019.
Mr G was subsequently convicted of fraud in relation to this matter. The court also 
imposed restrictions on his ability to contact Mr J and Ms H, as a result of his 
behaviour towards them.  
Barclays told us:
At the time Mr G made payments from T's account, the mandate it held on file 
showed all four of the original directors as signatories. 
Whilst two signatories were usually needed to authorise a payment, there was a 
waiver in place allowing one signatory to make payments using online or telephone 
banking.
All the payments Mr G made from T's account were made using either online or 
telephone banking. The payments were therefore made in accordance with the 
mandate and the waiver on file.
It does not believe that it did anything wrong in allowing Mr G to make payments from 
Ts bank account.
Mr J and Ms H were not satisfied with Barclays response to Ts complaint, and referred the 
matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators explained that T is a small business under our rules. She said that 
means we can look at its complaint about Barclays actions from 1 April 2019 only. We cant 
look at anything Barclays did before that date.
Looking only at the period from 1 April 2019, our investigator didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong. She was satisfied that Barclays had followed the mandate it had on file, and 
she saw no basis on which she could recommend that it refund any money to T.
Mr J and Ms H understood our investigators reasoning, but they asked for Ts complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2021. I said:
[M]y provisional findings are:
T was a small business under our rules at all relevant times  which means our 
investigator was right to say we can only look at its complaint about Barclays 
actions from 1 April 2019 onwards.
Our investigator was also right to say that Barclays actions from 1 April 2019 
onwards were in accordance with the mandate it had on file.
However, as at 1 April 2019 Barclays knew that Ts remaining directors did not 
want Mr G to have access to Ts bank account. It also knew that the relationship 
between Mr J and Ms H on the one hand and Mr G on the other hand had broken 
down entirely  in unusually acrimonious circumstances. Barclays should 
therefore have known that Mr G was not authorised to withdraw money from Ts 
bank account. 
It wouldnt be fair for me to ignore the fact that Ts remaining directors were, in 
their words, behind with the accounts as at 1 April 2019. If they had attempted 
to reconcile Ts bank balance with its accounts, it is likely they would have 
discovered Mr Gs fraud much earlier.
Taking into account all the evidence I have seen so far, I consider that Barclays 
should refund half of the payments Mr G transferred out of Ts bank account from 
1 April 2019 onwards. Barclays should also pay interest on those amounts, at a 
rate of 8% per year simple.
Both parties now have an opportunity to provide me with further evidence or arguments. I 
should stress that I might change my mind on any aspect of this complaint in the light of 
the parties further comments.I explain my findings in more detail below.
Everyone agrees that, as at 1 April 2019, Barclays records showed that Mr G was still 
listed on the mandate for Ts bank account. There is a dispute about whether he should 
have been so listed  but it is clear that Mr G was in fact listed as a person who could 
make transfers out of Ts bank account. 
Barclays has provided me with copies of its internal records for both T and E over the 
relevant period. Barclays records for E during 2015 have several entries showing that 
Mr J and Ms H wanted Mr G to be removed from the mandate for Es bank account. But 
there are no equivalent entries on Barclays records for T. 
I have also seen documentary evidence showing that in 2015, Barclays confirmed to 
Mr J and Ms H that Mr G had indeed been removed from the mandate for Es bank 
account. But again, I have not seen equivalent evidence for T. 
In other words:
Both parties have provided me with documentary evidence showing that Mr J and 
Ms H asked Barclays to remove Mr Gs access to Es bank account in 2015. 
Neither party has provided me with documentary evidence to show that Barclays 
was asked to remove Mr Gs access to Ts bank account before 2019.
The lack of documentary evidence in respect of T does not necessarily mean that Mr J 
and Ms H did not discuss Ts account with Barclays in 2015  it might only mean that 
those discussions were not recorded. 
Mr J and Ms H have been clear and consistent in their recollections that in 2015 they 
instructed Barclays to remove Mr G from the mandates for both Ts account and Es 
account. They told us:
We requested a meeting with [Barclays Relationship Manager, or the RM] to 
explain that [Mr G] was resigning as a director and we needed him to be removed 
from all accounts, mandates, cards and access to all business accounts stopped. 
[The RM] attended a meeting at our offices  and we signed all relevant 
paperwork and mandates to change access on all accounts. [the RM] 
understood the fragility of the situation and was incredibly professional and 
sensitive in the way she handled everything.
They believe the RM must have accidentally omitted to carry out their instructions in 
respect of T. 
By 2019 the RM was no longer working for Barclays, but Mr J and Ms H were able to get 
in touch with her. She said:
I can confirm that you made me aware of your desire to remove [Mr G] from the 
mandate for [both T and E]. This was not something that could be actioned by 
word of mouth or a letter but would have required the completion, by [both Mr J 
and Ms H] of a new bank signature mandate. This could be done by either 
completion of a paper copy or completion via an online link. This happened 
nearly four years ago, so I am not able to remember which vehicle was used to 
complete this but my recollection is that this was completed and submitted for 
both businesses at the same time.In many cases, I would be sceptical about an RMs ability to remember any details at all 
from an account they dealt with four years ago. RMs usually handle large numbers of 
accounts, and memories inevitably fade. But in this particular case, the circumstances 
surrounding Mr J and Ms Hs desire to remove Mr G from the mandate were very 
unusual. I wont provide details of those circumstances here  they are well known to all 
parties  but I understand Barclays accepts that Mr J and Ms H considered Mr Gs 
behaviour in 2015 to be erratic, violent and illegal. I am therefore not at all surprised 
that the RM remembers being told of the current directors desire to remove Mr Gs 
access to both T and Es bank accounts.
So, the three people who I would expect to have personal knowledge of the matter  
Mr J, Ms H and Barclays RM  agree that they believed Mr G had been removed from 
the mandate of Ts account in 2015. Their evidence conflicts with the documentary 
evidence, but in the particular circumstances here I put more weight on Mr J, Ms H and 
the RMs recollections than I do on Barclays written records. That means I am satisfied 
that Mr J and Ms H did give Barclays at least a verbal instruction in 2015 that they 
wanted Mr G removed from the mandate for Ts bank account. 
I have not seen anything to suggest that Mr J or Ms H revoked their verbal instruction to 
Barclays before 1 April 2019  and indeed the circumstances that led to that instruction 
make it very unlikely that either of them would have changed their minds about Mr Gs 
access.
Clearly Mr G was not in fact removed from the mandate for Ts account in 2015. I cannot 
consider whether anybody made an error in that regard, but I can consider what the 
position was from 1 April 2019 onwards.
As at 1 April 2019, I am therefore satisfied that:
Barclays had actual knowledge (through its RM) that Mr J and Ms H did not want 
Barclays to act on any payment instructions Mr G gave with respect to Ts bank 
account. 
Mr J and Ms H were directors of T, but Mr G was not. That means Barclays had 
received a verbal instruction from Ts directors to remove a non-director from the 
mandate for the companys bank account.
That means any payments Mr G made out of Ts account after 1 April 2019 were 
not authorised by T.
I acknowledge that Barclays says it needed a written instruction to remove Mr G from the 
mandate for Ts account, and that it would not act on a verbal instruction. But I am 
nevertheless satisfied that, as at 1 April 2019, Barclays knew that the companys 
directors did not want Mr G to be able to withdraw money from Ts account. As a result, I 
do not consider that Barclays treated T fairly or reasonably when it allowed Mr G to make 
payments from Ts bank account from 1 April 2019 onwards. 
However, I dont think it would be fair for me to order Barclays to refund all the money 
Mr G transferred from 1 April 2019 onwards. I also need to consider the actions of Ts 
other directors.Ms H told us:
Since the removal of [Mr G] from the business we have really struggled to bring 
both businesses back to a profitable position. We employ 18 people and felt an 
obligation to ensure that despite all that had happened, we did not let the 
businesses fail.
We regularly transferred money between the businesses accounts to cover 
payments and wages as we tried to juggle things to make ends meet.
Since 2015 I have been behind with the accounts as myself and [Mr J] had to 
cover the third director role and focused on reconciling [E] as a priority as this 
account had more financial responsibilities regarding wages and suppliers etc.
[After noticing a  withdrawal] I decided to start checking other payments that 
had left our account to ensure that this was an isolated incident but, as I checked, 
it became apparent that [Mr G] had been transferring money for many years.  He 
has a Barclays account with the same sort code as all of our accounts and 
because of this when I had been reconciling the bank statement for [T], I had 
always assumed these transfers had been made by me to one of our accounts. 
Sometimes this reconciliation would be taking place 6 months in arrears. I had 
therefore been posting these amounts to our intercompany loan accounts on our 
Sage accounts system.
I know the current directors have been through an extremely difficult time, and I am sorry 
that my comments on this matter will cause them further distress. But I cant ignore the 
fact that it took them four years to notice Mr Gs transfers. It appears they delayed 
making any attempt to reconcile their accounting records with E and Ts actual bank 
balances for an extremely long time. If they had carried out a bank reconciliation earlier, I 
think they would have discovered Mr Gs fraud earlier. I consider that it is appropriate for 
me to take that into account when considering fair compensation.
In light of the evidence and arguments Ive seen so far, I think the fairest outcome to this 
complaint would be for Barclays and T to share equal responsibility for the losses T 
suffered from 1 April 2019 onwards.
I therefore intend to issue a final decision ordering Barclays to refund 50% of the 
amounts Mr G transferred out of Ts account from 1 April 2019 onwards. I also intend to 
order Barclays to pay interest on those amounts, at a rate of 8% per year simple, 
calculated from the date each payment was transferred out of Ts account until the date 
Barclays settles this complaint.
Both parties should be aware that I may change my mind on any aspect of this complaint 
in the light of responses to this provisional decision.
Both parties broadly accepted my provisional conclusions, but they also wanted me to 
consider further evidence.
Mr J and Ms H said:
They accept my provisional findings.
They would also like me to note further information about the fourth director, a Mr A, 
and his access to Ts accounts. They consider that Barclays handling of Mr As 
access supports our argument that Barclays have been negligent and inconsistent in the way they have handled our accounts and continue to provide us with 
misinformation and cause us undue stress and anxiety.
Barclays said:
It also accepts my provisional findings  and it also has some further information that 
it would like me to note.
It does not agree that a verbal instruction to the RM would have been sufficient for 
Mr G to have been removed from the mandate for Ts account; it would have required 
completed mandate forms. However, it accepts that it may have missed an 
opportunity for the [RM] to temporarily revoke [Mr Gs] online banking and telephone 
banking access to the business whilst waiting for the mandate forms to be completed 
given the concerns around [Mr Gs] removal from the business.
The RMs recollection is that she told Mr J and Ms H that they needed to both 
remove Mr G from the business account mandate and tell Companies House that he 
was no longer a director. Companies Houses records show Mr G remained as a 
director of T until 2017. That means that despite the information the RM gave, Mr J 
and Ms H failed to action the changes at Companies House for almost 2 years 
despite their concerns about [Mr G] remaining connected to the business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Both parties have provided further information following my provisional decision. I have 
carefully reviewed that evidence, but I cant make findings on any complaint T might make 
about Barclays acts or omissions before 1 April 2019. T is a small business under our 
rules, and so I can only consider its complaint about Barclays actions from 1 April 2019 
onwards.
Having looked at everything again, I think Barclays is right to say that Ts current directors 
could have done more to prevent the fraud. But the directors are also right to say that 
Barclays could have done more  and I note that Barclays accepts it may have missed an 
opportunity. 
Overall, I remain satisfied that it is fair for T and Barclays to share equal responsibility for the 
amounts Mr G transferred out of Ts account from 1 April 2019 onwards. My reasons are 
identical to those I gave in my provisional decision, and I therefore confirm my provisional 
findings as final.
Putting things right
Barclays must pay T 50% of the amounts Mr G transferred out of Ts accounts from 1 April 
2019 onwards. Barclays must also pay interest on those amounts the amounts reimbursed 
to T, at a rate of 8% per year simple, calculated pro rata from the date each payment was 
transferred out of Ts account until the date Barclays settles this complaint.
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc. I order Barclays 
Bank UK Plc to pay compensation to T as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman