DRN-3805855
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the poor service she received from Telefonica UK Limited trading as 
O2 in relation to her fixed sum loan with it.
What happened
Mrs J entered into a fixed sum loan with Telefonica in July 2019 to fund the purchase of a 
mobile phone. The agreement had a term of 36 months. I understand she was also provided 
with an unregulated service agreement for airtime to allow her to access Telefonicas 
mobile network.
In February 2022 Mrs J asked to port her mobile phone number to another network. She 
was subsequently asked to repay the outstanding balance of her fixed sum loan  £80.47  
by Telefonica.
In March 2022 Mrs J raised a complaint with Telefonica. She said that shed received a 
threatening enforcement notice demanding final payment of her fixed sum loan. She said 
she ought to have received a final invoice. Mrs J made contact with Telefonica on a number 
of subsequent occasions  highlighting that a lesser sum than shed been asked to pay had 
been collected from her bank account and shed been told to expect a response within 5 
working days but hadnt heard from anyone.
Telefonica responded to Mrs Js concerns on 17 March 2022. It apologised for any delays in 
responding and said that the termination letter it had sent was a standard letter it sends 
when fixed sum loans are ended early. It apologised if Mrs J had found its content offensive 
or threatening. Overall, it didnt think it had done anything wrong, so didnt uphold Mrs Js 
complaint.
Mrs J maintained that Telefonicas letter had been unwarranted and offensive. She also said 
shed sent several letters to Telefonicas CEO and hadnt received a response. She said 
Telefonica had violated its own complaints process.
Telefonica sent a further response on 18 March 2022. It reiterated its position on the letter it 
had sent and accounted for the delay in responding to Mrs J due to the issue being passed 
from its complaint review team to its CEOs office.
In response Mrs J told Telefonica not to take any further payments from her.
Mrs J referred her complaint to this service. She said that the enforcement notice was 
unwarranted, that Telefonica failed to respond to her concerns within five working days  in 
line with its customer charter  and it had taken funds from her account despite her asking it 
not to. She asked to be provided with an apology from Telefonicas CEO and to be paid £60 
for the stress caused by its letter.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said, in summary, Mrs Js agreement 
allowed it to terminate her agreement if she ported away from its network and it had acted 
fairly in sending a termination notice. They said the notice set out clearly what Mrs J needed 
to pay to settle her account, and that she was sent a final statement as well. Overall, they 
found that Telefonica had dealt with Mrs Js concerns in a timely fashion and hadnt acted 
unreasonably.
Mrs J said she had not received final statements for either airtime or her loan, said 
Telefonicas letter was a direct threat and reiterated that Telefonica hadnt followed its own 
complaint procedures.
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision on it. In summary, I said;
Mrs Js complaint is about a fixed sum loan agreement. Thats a regulated agreement, and 
one which this service has the power to consider a complaint about. We dont, in the context 
of this complaint, have the power to consider a complaint about any associated  and 
unregulated  airtime agreements Mrs J may also have been sold alongside her regulated 
loan.
From what Mrs J has said, I think she accepts that her fixed sum loan agreement allowed 
Telefonica to terminate it in the event that she ported away from its Network. Ive reviewed 
the agreement in any event, and Im satisfied thats the case.
Having reviewed the termination notice Telefonica sent, Im also satisfied that it simply sets 
out that Mrs Js agreement will be terminated, the sums required of Mrs J to settle the 
agreement as well as the potential consequences if it isnt settled. Whilst I understand that 
Mrs J might have been worried about the language used in the letter, I dont think that 
Telefonica said anything inaccurate within it. I also dont find that the letter was unwarranted 
or constituted a threat. I dont think Telefonica did anything wrong by sending it.
Ive seen that Mrs J raised her concerns about the letter she received on 3 March 2022 and 
again during a webchat with Telefonica on 7 March 2022. During that chat Mrs J was told 
that because the sums required to settle the loan would be taken from her account 
automatically, she could ignore the letter. She was also told that because a Direct Debit had 
recently been collected, the amount which would be taken in respect of her loan would be 
£64.34, and that she could expect a response to her complaint within five working days.
I accept that there seems to have been a little confusion around the timescales in which Mrs 
J thought that Telefonica would respond to her concerns. It appears that it might have taken 
longer than Mrs J mightve been led to believe as a result of the complaint being escalated to 
another team.
However, its my role to decide if Telefonica handled things fairly overall. I appreciate that it 
might have been disappointing for Mrs J to be given the impression that shed receive a 
response sooner than she did, and it may well have been outside of Telefonicas published 
timescales. But, taking into account that Mrs J was given  in my view  accurate answers to 
her concerns during her webchat on the same day she raised them, and she received a full 
response to her complaint ten days later, overall I think that Telefonica handled the matter 
promptly.
In respect of Mrs Js point about Telefonica taking funds when it ought not to  I dont think 
shes been disadvantaged by what Telefonica did. I think Telefonica clearly set out (during 
its webchat) that at the point it had issued its letter the outstanding balance of Mrs Js loan 
was £80.47. A direct debit had been collected in the meantime, at a value of £16.13, which 
left £64.34 to pay. I accept there was some confusion about that balance due to a Direct 
Debit for airtime being collected around the same time, but from what Ive seen Im satisfied 
that Telefonica gave accurate information to Mrs J.I accept that Mrs J told Telefonica not to collect any further sums. However, I think that Mrs J 
accepts that she was required to pay a sum to settle her fixed sum loan agreement. Whilst 
there was some confusion about the exact amount, Im satisfied that the sum Telefonica 
collected was the correct amount owing under the agreement. If Telefonica had acted on 
Mrs Js request not to collect further sums, it couldve had adverse consequences for her  
for example, adverse information being recorded with credit reference agencies. So, overall, 
I dont think that Mrs J was disadvantaged by Telefonica collecting the outstanding sums she 
was required to have paid under her agreement.
Lastly, Mrs J says that shes still to receive a final statement of account from Telefonica. I 
can see that she was told that a final statement would be generated and issued to her 
subsequent to her webchat on 7 March 2022. Telefonica has provided a copy of a final 
statement issued to Mrs J at her current address on 5 April 2022, so, I think Telefonicas 
done what it said it would.
Telefonica didnt respond but Mrs J did. She made a number of points. In summary she said 
that Telefonicas letter was threatening, it didnt tell her the complaint had been given to 
another team, it failed to follow its own complaints process, it ought not to have called for 
any further funds because she asked it not to and it had not provided a final statement, 
particularly in reference to her airtime account. 
The case has been passed back to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the further submissions made in response to my provisional decision, I find 
no reason to change my mind on it. Ill explain why. 
I dont agree that Telefonicas correspondence was threatening. I dont think it did anything 
wrong by sending a termination notice to Mrs J. 
Overall, I dont think that Telefonica handled matters unreasonably  even if there was some 
confusion about which of Telefonicas teams had taken responsibility for the complaint which 
meant Mrs J waited longer than she expected for a response. I say this because Telefonica 
had given Mrs J accurate answers to her concerns in a webchat in the days following her 
having raised them, and ultimately gave a full response to her concerns ten days after 
receiving them. So, even if Telefonica failed to respond to Mrs J within its published 
timescales, Im satisfied that it nonetheless handled matters promptly and fairly.
I accept Mrs J told Telefonica not to collect further payments from her, but it failed to follow 
that instruction. However, the sums Telefonica collected from Mrs J were owed legitimately 
under her fixed sum loan, so she wouldve always been required to repay them to settle the 
loan. I dont think Mrs J was disadvantaged by Telefonica collecting those sums despite her 
telling it not to  by doing so it mightve mitigated potential detrimental impact to Mrs J such 
as late payment information being recorded with credit reference agencies. I accept Mrs J 
might have been frustrated by this, but I require no remedy of Telefonica. 
Lastly, Telefonica has shown that it sent Mrs J a final statement in relation to her fixed sum 
loan. Shes mentioned that she didnt receive a final statement in respect of airtime, but 
thats an issue to do with an unregulated service agreement. This service doesnt have the 
power to consider a complaint in relation to that agreement in the context of this complaint, 
because its not an activity covered by our rules. Should Mrs J wish to pursue that matter, she might want to seek independent advice on how to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman