DRN-4130637
The complaint
 The trustees of a trust which Ill refer to as H, are unhappy about the Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plcs (RBS) decision to close Hs account as well as declining to honour a cheque 
that the trustees had drawn before the closure took place. The trustees do not think also that 
RBS complaints procedure is fit for purpose.  
What happened
 In December 2021 RBS gave notice to customers who held a personal trust account with 
the bank that in six months time they intended closing these accounts. The trustees 
received the notification. 
The trustees have told us that because they had difficulty finding a similar account 
elsewhere into which the funds could be deposited, as an interim measure, on 3 July 2022 
they wrote a cheque for £93,000 payable to one of the trustees and beneficiaries  Mr S. On 
18 July 2022 the cheque was paid into an account that Mr S held with another bank.  
The following day, on 19 July 2022, RBS closed Hs account. They didnt honour the cheque 
when it was presented for payment. After closing the account, RBS transferred the proceeds 
to a suspense account at the bank. Later, in October 2022, the closing balance was sent to 
the trustees by cheque dated 7 October 2022. 
On behalf of the trustees, Mr S then complained to RBS about what had happened. In their 
first final response letter dated 17 August 2022, RBS said they didnt think theyd done 
anything wrong given timeframe they were presented with to pay the cheque. 
RBS also said that Mr S subsequently raised another complaint alleging he had to visit a 
branch of the bank three times to raise a complaint on Hs behalf. In their response to that 
complaint RBS said they were unable to establish why that happened, but nonetheless 
apologised for it. 
However, the trustees remained dissatisfied and so, they referred the complaint to this 
service.     
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  He noted that although the cheque was dated 
3 July 2022, nonetheless it wasnt actually deposited into Mr Ss account until 18 July 2022, 
the day before the closure of Hs account. Taking into account the banks evidence of its 
procedure  which is to allow one working day for cheques to be processed, he was satisfied 
that Hs account was closed by the time the cheque was presented for payment. Against that 
background he didnt think that RBS acted wrongly when they decline to honour the cheque.
The trustees didnt accept the investigators opinion and have asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case.  
I summarise what I regard as key points Mr S has asked to be considered on the trustees 
behalf. He said that:
RBS have divested themselves of these types of account recklessly and inconsistent 
with their banking obligations.
In particular, there was insufficient notice given by RBS of their intention to close Hs 
account. Over the course of the six months, the trustees tried to find alternative 
arrangements for the funds but without success. It was because of this that the 
trustees took the decision to transfer the funds to Mr S in the interim until more 
sustainable arrangements could be made. RBS made no attempt to identify or 
support customers to transition to other banking platforms. 
And despite being presented in the currency of the account, the cheque was not 
honoured. RBS is wrong to suggest it was powerless to do otherwise.  Whilst its 
acknowledged that the cheque was impacted by the clearing system, given the 
background circumstances, the bank should have acted to ensure that the cheque 
was processed.
Moreover, RBSs complaints procedure is not fit for purpose
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions, and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why. 
I start with the trustees claim that RBS complaints procedure is not fit for purpose. I assume 
this allegation has been made against the background Mr S explained, that it took three 
visits by him to a branch of the bank before being able to raise a complaint.  I fully 
understand that would have been an unwelcome experience for Mr S and its unlikely to 
have been frustrating for him to discover that the bank is unable to explain why that 
happened.  
However, our service only has the power to investigate complaints that meet the criteria set 
by the Financial Conduct Authority in what is known as the DISP rules  which is available 
online. The relevant rule in this case is DISP 2.3 which lists the regulated activities we have 
the power to investigate. Complaint handling which I believe is at the heart of this particular 
issue isnt a regulated activity in its own right. Therefore, I cant consider it. That being said I 
was pleased to note that RBS have nonetheless apologised for what happened. 
RBS decision to close Hs account.
I turn next to RBSs decision which is one of the two main issues the trustees have 
complained about. 
The bank took a commercial decision to withdraw from personal trust accounts. They told 
customers who held those accounts of their intention to do so  six months in advance. 
I am satisfied RBS were entitled to make that decision. In other words, its a matter for the 
bank to decide the type of accounts it is willing to continue commercially to operate. RBS communicated their decision to the trustees in December 2021 giving them six months 
notice of their intention. Ive also considered the part of the terms and conditions of Hs 
account that deals with account closure. In particular where it states: 
We can close any other account by giving you at least 60 days notice 
Based on this, it seems to me that in December 2021 the bank gave far more notice than it 
was obliged to give of its decision to close Hs account. I therefore disagree with Mr S that 
this timeframe was insufficient. For these reasons Im not persuaded that in making the 
decision that RBS did to close Hs account after the notice period had come to an end, the 
bank did anything wrong.
That being said, I appreciate RBS decision proved problematic for the trustees. And in 
particular, because they found it difficult to find an alternative provider of a similar account. 
But I cannot reasonably hold RBS responsible for those challenges, especially after coming 
to the conclusion I have that the bank was entitled to take the decision it did to withdraw from 
that aspect of the market.  
The banks decision not to pay the cheque. 
Mr S has explained that the cheque was drawn in the correct currency and in accordance 
with Hs account mandate. Neither is in dispute.  In terms of sequencing, Ive already noted 
that whilst the cheque was drawn on 3 July 2022, it was not paid into Mr Ss account until 
two weeks later. And RBS have presented evidence showing the cheque was presented for 
payment after Hs account was closed. 
It is unfortunate that the cheque was not deposited into Mr Ss account sooner. Mr S has 
argued nonetheless, that although the cheque was impacted by the clearance cycle, in light 
of the overall background, RBS should have taken steps to ensure it was paid in any event. 
However, I dont think the bank was obliged to do so. The closure of the account terminated 
the banking relationship with H albeit the proceeds of the account were temporarily 
transferred to a suspense account. In the circumstances and whilst I sympathise with the 
position the trustees found themselves in I do not think I can fairly conclude that by acting as 
it did the bank has done anything wrong.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman