DRN-4172229
The complaint
Mr H complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
(Novuna), declined his claim about a defective hot tub under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In late 2020 Mr H bought a hot tub from a third party (the merchant) for £6,499. He paid a 
£500 deposit, and the balance was financed with a 24-month loan with Novuna. Novuna 
accepts that it is liable under section 75 for any breach of contract by the merchant at the 
point of sale.
The hot tub was delivered in or around November 2020. It has two built-in speakers, which 
Mr H describes as being an important feature to him as a music-lover. In January 2021 he 
told the merchant that one of the speakers was making a cracking or crackling sound in time 
to the bass. He asked for a replacement under warranty; meanwhile he continued to use the 
hot tub daily. The merchant says it ordered a new speaker that same day, but that due to a 
global shortage of parts the replacement was not available until April. Meanwhile, it advised 
him to play music quietly to reduce the crackling sound.
Later in April, Mr H reported that the second speaker had failed completely. So he says that 
the speakers were not durable. He also says that the lid of the hot tub was fragile and that it 
broke easily. He says that these defects meant that the hot tub was defective and that the 
merchant was therefore in breach of the implied term of their contract to sell him a hot tub 
that was of satisfactory quality. He asked Novuna to end his loan agreement with nothing 
further to pay, to refund his payments and deposit, and to let him reject the hot tub and 
return it.
Novuna did not agree to do that. It said that the merchant had agreed to replace the 
speakers under warranty, and that Mr H was not entitled to reject the hot tub unless and until 
this repair was carried out and proved to be unsuccessful. It said that the delay in getting the 
replacement parts had not been unreasonable, due to a global shortage which was not just 
limited to the merchant. It said that the merchant had told it that the lid must have been 
broken by Mr Hs carelessness, but it was willing to replace the lid for free as a gesture of 
good will.
Being dissatisfied with that answer, Mr H brought this complaint to our service in February 
2022. (He is represented in this complaint by his partner, but for the sake of simplicity I will 
describe everything that he has told us on Mr Hs behalf as if it came from Mr H himself.)
In December 2022, one of our investigators upheld this complaint. He accepted that the 
speakers were not durable enough, and that this was a defect which had been present at the 
point of sale. He said that a repair of the speakers would have been a fair remedy, except 
that it had taken too long to do. Although the Consumer Rights Act 2015 normally says that 
the supplier of defective goods is allowed one attempt to repair them before the consumer is 
entitled to reject them, this does not apply if the repair takes an unreasonable amount of time 
to arrange. The investigator thought that this exception applied, so he recommended that 
Novuna collect the hot tub at no cost to Mr H, end the loan agreement with nothing else to 
pay, refund all payments made and the deposit, pay interest on the refunds at 8% a year, 
and pay another £200 for Mr Hs trouble. He said that Novuna could keep 10% of the 
contract price of the hot tub to allow for Mr Hs use of it to date.
Novuna did not accept that opinion. It said the proposed compensation was disproportionate, 
because the problems with the speakers had not prevented Mr H from using the hot tub. Ten 
percent off a full refund did not adequately reflect the fact that Mr H had had an operational 
hot tub for two years. The speakers would only cost £22 to replace. Keeping in mind the 
reason for the delay  the global shortage of relevant parts  the merchant had not yet had a 
fair opportunity to repair the speakers, since Mr H had stopped engaging with the merchant 
from April 2021. The hot tub was now second hand and so could not be re-sold as new. The 
lid was going to be replaced for free. The hot tub was still useable and was still being used. 
Novuna offered to pay £500 for the delays and inconvenience, but otherwise insisted that the 
repairs would be a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Mr H rejected that offer and asked for the full redress proposed by the investigator. Because 
agreement between the parties could not be reached, this case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision. I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to take this opportunity to apologise to both parties for how long it has taken for 
this case to be assigned to an ombudsman. (However, the passage of time since December 
2022 has not made a difference to my view of the case.)
I regret to disappoint Mr H, but I am afraid that I agree with Novuna that to allow him to reject 
the hot tub for a refund of 90% of the price would not be a proportionate or fair remedy. I will 
explain why.
First things first: I accept that the speakers were not durable, because they both failed so 
soon after the hot tub was delivered. I agree that this amounts to a breach of contract by the 
merchant at the point of sale. This is not in dispute, so I do not need to elaborate further.
I have not considered the fragility of the lid as a separate issue, because I think the offer to 
replace it for free is enough to resolve that issue. So in this decision I have focused on the 
speakers, and on what would be a fair remedy for that defect.
The first speaker was reported to have stopped working properly on 18 January 2021. The 
merchant ordered a replacement the same day; it arrived in stock on 8 April. It was on the 
basis of this delay, a little under three months, that my colleague decided that the repair had 
not been done within a reasonable time. However, I do not agree. I think that a global 
shortage of parts, which the merchant had to obtain from another third party, is a factor 
which should be taken into account when deciding how long is a reasonable time. And 
section 23(5) of the Consumer Rights Act says:
(5) Any question as to what is a reasonable time or significant 
inconvenience is to be determined taking account of
(a) the nature of the goods, and
(b) the purpose for which the goods were acquired.The nature of the goods is that they are a hot tub with two speakers in it, and the primary 
purpose of a hot tub is to sit in it; the speakers are secondary. So I would probably have 
reached a different conclusion if the hot tub had ceased to be usable as such, and could not 
be repaired for eleven or twelve weeks. But given that the hot tub still worked, I dont think 
that this is an unreasonable delay to fix the first speaker.
Meanwhile, Mr H was able to use his own speakers while he was waiting for the hot tubs 
speakers to be repaired. He says that his own speakers were better, except that they were 
not waterproof. I think this mitigates the inconvenience of not being able to use the hot tubs 
speakers while he was waiting. Im sure it was possible to keep his own speakers away from 
the water while he was using them.
The second speaker failed on 20 April, so another replacement was needed. On 11 May 
(three weeks later), the merchant told Novuna that both replacement speakers were ready. 
(The last communication directly between the merchant and Mr H had been on 20 April; after 
that, the merchant only dealt with Novuna.)
For some reason which has not been explained, Novuna waited until 2 June to tell Mr H; an 
avoidable delay of three weeks. On receiving no response from Mr H, Novuna sent him a 
chasing email on 17 June. For this reason, I do not propose to award compensation for the 
three weeks delay, as it appears that Mr H was no longer interested in having the speakers 
replaced.
The speakers have never been repaired, but I am satisfied that this was not because the 
merchant was unable or unwilling to repair them. I am not persuaded that the repair of the 
speakers  if Mr H had accepted this when it was offered to him  would have taken an 
unreasonable time. For that reason, I think that repairing or replacing the speakers free of 
charge under warranty, together with £500 compensation for the inconvenience of having 
defective speakers for a few weeks, would have been a fair resolution of the problem at the 
time. For the same reason, I am satisfied that Novuna did not have to offer to do more than it 
has to resolve Mr Hs section 75 claim.
But even if I took a different view about that, I still would not think that rejecting the entire hot 
tub for a 90% refund would be a proportionate response. The hot tub still works and is still 
useable as such, and Mr H has continued to use it regularly (with his own speakers). So 
even if I decided that he should be able to reject the hot tub, the deduction for using it would 
be much higher than ten percent  more like 90%  and he probably would not think it 
worthwhile to return the hot tub in exchange for that.
The merchant is still able and willing to repair or replace the speakers, and to replace the lid. 
I think that is a more proportionate and fair remedy.
(I have noted that from April 2021 the merchant stopped communicating directly with Mr H, 
and began using Novuna as an intermediary instead. I think that was not necessarily helpful, 
but it is not something for which section 75 makes Novuna liable.)
So I am currently minded to uphold this complaint, but only to award £500 compensation, 
and to require that the speakers and lid are replaced at no cost to Mr H.
Responses to my provisional findings
Mr H wrote 22 pages of representations in reply to my provisional decision. Summarising this 
as succinctly as I can, he said:
There was no evidence, other than hearsay, about a global shortage of relevant 
parts;But if there really had been a global shortage of parts at the time, then I should not 
have factored this in when considering how long is a reasonable time to supply 
replacement speakers;
There had also been a third speaker that failed, and the Bluetooth sound system had 
also stopped working;
He disagreed that not having music does not affect the ability to use the hot tub, and 
he compared this to a discotheque without music;
The lid had broken too easily and had not been fit for purpose;
But for the covid pandemic he would have returned the hot tub within 30 days of 
delivery, because of the lid;
Any unfairness to Novuna should be regarded as a good lesson learned by them;
The merchant could have just replaced the speakers with the ones that were in their 
display model in their showroom;
In my provisional decision I had overlooked some important matters (but he didnt list 
what these were, so I cannot comment on this point1);
The speakers and integrated Bluetooth sound system were fundamental to the 
experience and were the main reason why he had chosen that particular model of hot 
tub;
The entire hot tub, including the lid and speakers, should be regarded as one 
indivisible entity, and not divided into its components as I had done;
He and his partner had started to suffer skin conditions caused by the chemicals in 
the hot tub (and he offered to show me photos of this on request);
When the tub was delivered it was not installed level (on gravel);
I had said that it was acceptable to listen to the hot tub speakers with the cracking 
noise, but he disagreed with me (in fact I had never said that; I had said he could use 
his own speakers);
Using his own speaker had been inconvenient;
The final decision should come from another ombudsman, preferably either a woman 
or a gay man;
The whole experience had affected his mental health.
My final decision
I have not found it necessary to ask another ombudsman to write the final decision.
Some of the above points are new ones which were not included in the complaint previously, 
such as the failure of a third speaker, and so I wont be commenting on them.
I appreciate that the speakers were integrated into the hot tub and were part of one unit, but 
Im afraid that I still remain of the view that it would be disproportionate to allow the rejection 
of a £6,500 hot tub without first attempting to replace or repair some serviceable parts that 
only cost £22. I also take into account that the right to reject goods under the Consumer 
Rights Act is conditional on allowing one attempt to repair them, as long as this is done 
within a reasonable time. How long a time is reasonable will depend on the facts of each 
case. And I cannot accept the argument that a global shortage of relevant parts is an 
irrelevant fact. It has to be taken into account.
I asked Novuna for evidence to support the merchants claim that there was a shortage. In 
response, it sent me four emails from three of the merchants suppliers, including two 
contemporaneous emails from November and December 2020, together with a leaflet 
1 Unless of course he meant the other matters I have listed above and below this bullet-point.published by BISHTA.2 These explained that because of the covid pandemic, global demand 
for hot tubs in 2020 had increased by 400 to 600 percent, there had been significant delays 
in delivering goods and parts from overseas in container ships, and some supply factories 
had closed or experienced staff shortages during lockdowns. It had taken the industry 18 
months to get back to normal. Some of these emails also provided the following links to 
relevant online articles:
https://www.whatspa.co.uk/why-is-it-difficult-to-find-hot-tubs-in-stock/
http://affordablehottubrepair.com/covid-19-delays-hot-tub-repairs.html
https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-54908129
I accept all of this evidence, and I think that it adequately explains the delays Mr H 
experienced. And I dont think it is reasonable to expect the merchant to cannibalise its 
showroom display model for spare parts. (And even if it had done so, that would have solved 
the problem for only one customer, and that would not necessarily have been Mr H.)
Mr H says he was told to find a flat, level surface for the hot tub to stand on, but at delivery 
he chose to have it installed on gravel. I think that explains why it was not level, so I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable of me to hold Novuna responsible for that.
I appreciate the point that the lid was broken within 30 days of delivery, but as Mr H did not 
ask to reject the hot tub within 30 days, his right to do so without first having to attempt a 
repair expired. It does not matter if he would have exercised that right but for the pandemic. 
So I remain of the view that Novunas offer to replace the lid is enough to resolve that issue.
Overall, I have not been persuaded to change my mind about what would be a fair resolution 
of this case.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Novuna Personal Finance to pay 
Mr H £500 and to arrange to replace the hot tubs speakers and lid at no cost to him. I do not 
require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2023. But this final decision is the end our process, 
and so we will not be able to consider any further representations about the merits of this 
complaint. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
2 The British and Irish Spa and Hot Tub Association, the trade association for the industry. I will 
arrange for a copy of this leaflet to be sent to Mr H with this decision.