DRN-3495593
The complaint
Mr F complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. declined his claim against his travel insurance policy. Reference to Mapfre includes its 
agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in late 2020, Mr Fs grandmother was gravely ill in a country Ill 
refer to as S. Mr F arranged a flight to S and on 13 December 2020, took out an annual 
travel insurance policy with Mapfre which started on 15 December 2021. 
On 14 December 2020, Mr F travelled to S. He hadnt booked a return flight but  
intended to stay until 31 December 2020 or 1 January 2021. Shortly after his arrival in S, 
Mr F suffered back pain and sought medical advice. Mr F was told that he required 
surgery. On 15 January 2021, he contacted Mapfre about a claim against his policy in 
relation to his emergency medical expenses.
Mapfre declined Mr Fs claim. It said that Mr Fs travel was non-essential and that 
travelling against the advice of the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office 
(FCDO, formerly the FCO), invalidates cover.  
Mr F went on to have surgery twice in S and borrowed money in order to settle medical 
bills. He returned home on 30 June 2021, after a period of quarantine in a third country.  
Mr F says that his travel was essential and that his medical expenses werent related to 
Covid-19, so Mapfre should settle his claim. He says that Mapfre shouldnt have sold him 
the policy if it knew it wouldnt cover any claims. Mr F wants Mapfre to pay his medical 
expenses and the additional expenses he incurred as a result of staying in S for several 
months. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Mapfre had 
treated Mr F unfairly. The investigator said that when Mr F travelled to S, the FCDO 
advised against all but essential travel to that country. He didnt think that Mr Fs travel 
was essential. And whilst he understood Mr Fs contention that his claim wasnt related 
to Covid-19, it remained the case that there was no cover under the policy as Mr F had 
travelled against FCDO advice. 
Mr F didnt agree with the investigator. He said that his travel was essential.
The investigator looked at the matter again. He said that the central issue here isnt 
whether Mr Fs travel was essential; its whether the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel, which it had here. So, any claim by Mr F was excluded, because hed 
travelled when the FCDO had advised against all but essential travel. The investigator 
said that its the status of the advice from the FCDO thats relevant, not the reason for  
Mr Fs travel. 
Mr F referred to the FCDO website which says that whether travel is essential or not is 
an individuals decision and that there may be urgent family or business commitments to 
attend to. He said that travel to visit a very ill relative is essential, so Mapfre should settle 
his claim. Mr F asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
Mr Fs policy covers claims for emergency medical and other expenses, subject to the policy 
terms. The policy also says: 
General Exclusions Applicable to All Sections of the Policy
We will not pay for claims arising directly or indirectly from
[]
17. Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Travel Advice Unit of the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) [] or the World Health Organisation
(WHO) or similar body has advised against all or all but essential travel. []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I appreciate the 
importance of this matter to Mr F but Im not upholding the complaint because I dont think 
that Mapfre treated him unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because:   
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that the 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is 
covered in principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion in the policy, the 
onus shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
When Mr F travelled to S, the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to that 
country, based on its assessment of Covid-19 risks.
Mr F says that he travelled to S for an essential reason  the grave illness of his 
grandmother -  and that the reason for his claim isnt related to Covid-19, so Mapfre 
should cover his claim. But Mr Fs reason for travelling and whether the claim is 
related to Covid-19 arent the deciding factors in this case. Thats because the 
relevant exclusion - which Ive set out above - excludes cover for claims arising 
directly or indirectly from travel to a country to which the FCDO has advised 
against all or all but essential travel, regardless of the reason why the individual 
travelled or whether the claim is related to Covid-19.  
When the FCDO issues this sort of advice, its because it considers the risk 
unacceptably high. And Mapfre excludes cover in those circumstances. So, the 
reason for Mr Fs travel and the nature of his medical requirements dont alter the 
outcome here; its the introduction of the advice against travel by the FCDO which 
triggers the exclusion. That means that even if Mr F travelled for an essential 
reason, he isnt covered under the policy. His claim is excluded because it arises directly or indirectly from travel to a country to which the FCDO has advised 
against all or all but essential travel. So, Mapfre is entitled to reply on the exclusion 
to which its referred, and I dont think that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in doing 
so. 
Mr F says that Mapfre shouldnt have sold him the policy if it knew it wouldnt cover 
any claims. Based on what Ive seen, this was a non-advised sale. That means that 
Mapfre didnt advise Mr F about the suitability of the policy for his needs. Mapfre 
was required to provide information that was clear, fair, and not misleading. Its not 
the case that the policy didnt cover any claims. Travel plans were uncertain at the 
time of Mr Fs travel, but this is an annual policy and covered both UK and 
overseas trips.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman