DRN-1273399
 
The complaint
Miss M complains about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim and on her motor 
insurance policy and also with its decision about liability.
What happened
Miss M was involved in an accident with another driver. She was unhappy that she had to 
deal with several case handlers, that information wasnt passed to the right teams, the lack 
of updates and UKIs communication. She was also unhappy that UKI held her at fault as 
she thought there had been errors in its investigation. UKI agreed that its claim handling 
could have been better and it offered Miss M £150 compensation. But it said it wouldnt 
change its liability decision. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought UKIs 
offer of £150 compensation for its customer service and communication failings was fair and 
reasonable. And he thought UKI had reasonably considered the evidence available and 
relied on legal opinion in deciding to accept liability for the accident on Miss Ms behalf.
Miss M replied contesting the conclusions UKI drew from the engineering report on her car. 
She asked for an ombudsmans review, so her complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss M was frustrated that UKI didnt keep her updated as she wished. I can 
see that at times there were delays in her claim and poor communication. UKI offered Miss 
M £150 in total for these customer service and communication failures. I think thats fair and 
reasonable as its in keeping with what Id require in similar situations. So I dont require UKI 
to increase this. 
Miss M is adamant that she was hit in the back by the other driver. The investigator has 
already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the 
accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply 
to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
UKI is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss M to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it sees fit. Miss M has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.I can see that when Miss M initially reported the accident, UKI thought it was at worst 50/50 
split liability. But UKI later said it had to accept liability in full on the basis of its legal advice. I 
understand that Miss M has raised her concerns about the solicitors with the legal 
ombudsman.
I can see that UKI had to consider the two drivers versions of events, the location of the 
accident and the engineering evidence of damage to the cars. Miss Ms partner was with her 
at the time but his evidence wouldnt be considered independent. 
Miss M thought UKI had identified the wrong point for the accident as a single rather than 
dual carriageway. She said shed changed lanes and was established in her lane when the 
other car had hit hers in the back. But the other insurer said the accident occurred in a single 
carriageway when Miss M had changed lanes and pulled in front of the other driver. 
I can see that there was disagreement about the exact point where the accident occurred. 
Miss M provided photos that showed there were two lanes next to a bus stop. Shed said 
shed pulled out into the right hand lane and was established there. UKI considered the locus 
report provided by the other insurer. This showed a different location in the same street. 
I dont think this difference was resolved. But I think UKI was more concerned about the 
discrepancy between the two accounts and how a court might view this in light of the 
engineering evidence. 
UKI said the engineering evidence showed that the damage to Miss Ms car was to the rear 
offside, not directly to the rear. It thought this was consistent with changing lanes. Miss M 
later said traffic had stopped and her car may have been at an angle at the time of the 
collision.
UKI took legal advice which said that based on these inconsistencies it would be unlikely to 
be able to defend the claim in court. It said the evidence didnt support a rear end shunt. It 
thought it supported the other drivers claim that Miss M had pulled out in front of him. And it 
thought a court would find against Miss M. So UKI accepted liability on Miss Ms behalf.
I can appreciate Miss Ms frustration, but I think UKI reasonably investigated the claim and 
considered the evidence available before it made this decision. I think it reasonably sought 
legal advice on the likely success if the claim went to court. I think UKI is entitled by the 
policy terms and conditions to make this decision. So I cant say its done anything wrong or 
require it to change its decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16July2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman