DRN-2724175
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) handled and 
declined her claim under her contents insurance for jewellery stolen during a burglary.
What happened
Ms K moved her jewellery to her sons house, next door, during a festive period. She was 
looking after the house while her son was away. On return from work, she found that the 
house had been burgled and Ms K reported to police that jewellery had been stolen. 
A week later, and a few days after her sons return from holiday, Ms K made a claim under 
her contents insurance for the stolen jewellery, a bag and some cash. Shed noticed she was 
covered for possessions away from the home. RSA investigated her claim and asked Ms K 
for evidence of ownership. She provided photos of the jewellery and one receipt, but RSA 
didnt think it was enough. It declined the claim.
Ms K complained because she thought RSA had looked for any excuse to decline her claim, 
and she was unhappy that it had taken two years to conclude. RSA paid £400 compensation 
for the delay, but it remained of the view that Ms K hadnt demonstrated ownership of the 
jewellery, which it thought belonged to her son. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that RSA had given a fair reason for 
declining the claim, and the evidence supported its view that the jewellery more likely 
belonged to Ms Ks son. While he agreed the delays were unreasonable, our investigator 
thought that £400 compensation was fair. 
Ms K didnt agree. She was unsure on what basis RSA declined her claim  whether it was 
because it thought her son owned the jewellery or that it hadnt been stolen at all. Ms K 
didnt think it was fair to decline her claim due to lack of evidence of ownership. If the 
jewellery had been 20 years old, she wouldnt have been expected to have receipts. She 
also felt that RSA hadnt proved her son owned the jewellery and, even if it had, he lived at 
her home and shouldve been covered under her policy anyway. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise Ms K will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint and Ill 
explain why. There are three main issues which Ill address in turn.
Delay
Ms K is unhappy with the length of time it took RSA to decide her claim. In January 2018 she 
claimed for stolen jewellery under her contents policy, which covered possessions away 
from home. RSA investigated the claim and declined it in January 2020. 
Ive looked at the evidence provided by both parties and I can see that the investigation itself 
resulted in a detailed exchange of information. The circumstances of this claim are unusual 
in that Ms Ks jewellery was in the property next door, so I can see why RSA wouldve 
wanted to carry out a detailed investigation. This, understandably, led to a delay in deciding 
the claim outcome. Nevertheless, I think it couldve been concluded sooner and I accept that 
the delay wouldve caused Ms K some inconvenience and distress.  RSA acknowledged that 
it hadnt dealt with Ms Ks claim as efficiently as it couldve done so, by way of apology, it 
paid her £400 compensation. While Ms K doesnt think thats enough given the 
inconvenience caused to her and her son, I must be clear that the compensation is in 
acknowledgement of Ms Ks distress and inconvenience. Any involvement her son had was 
on Ms Ks behalf and, under our rules, we cannot require compensation for anyone other 
than the policyholder. Im satisfied that the compensation of £400 is fair in recognition of the 
avoidable delays and inconvenience caused to Ms K.
Avoiding liability
During RSAs investigation it asked Ms K about some of the discrepancies between her 
claim and information provided by her son and the police report. She felt it was an unfair 
attempt to avoid liability for the claim and that it suggested the jewellery wasnt even stolen. 
Again, given the unusual circumstances of the claim, I dont think it was unreasonable that 
RSA asked for clarification. Briefly, RSA didnt think it was clear whether:
Ms K was staying at her sons house or just keeping an eye on it; 
she had reported immediately to the police or only later to RSA that her jewellery had 
been stolen; or 
whether she or her son owned the jewellery.
While Ms K thought it was an attempt to avoid liability, the evidence tells me that RSA was 
simply investigating the discrepancies in the claim. RSA told Ms K what it was looking into, 
but at that point it hadnt reached a decision. RSA gave Ms K the opportunity to respond to 
its concerns and provide evidence which would support her claim. Id expect RSA to 
investigate a claim of this nature and I havent seen anything which leads me to think RSA 
was looking to unfairly avoid liability. Nor I have seen anything to suggest that RSA didnt 
think thered been a theft.  I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Declined claim
Ms K is unhappy that RSA declined her claim for the reasons it gave. Ive looked at RSAs 
letter to Ms K and I can see that it declined her claim for one overriding reason: there was 
insufficient evidence to demonstrate she owned the jewellery. Ms K provided a receipt for 
one set of jewellery, but RSA pointed out that the receipt was in her sons name. Ms K said 
her son bought her the jewellery set for a special event but, for personal reasons, she didnt 
have any photos taken while wearing it. Ms K provided photos of the stolen jewellery in the 
boxes, but RSA raised concerns that the photos were from her sons photo storage account. 
While Ms K gave a reasonable explanation for only having photos of the boxed jewellery, I 
can understand why RSA didnt accept the evidence as proof of ownership, when it all 
pointed to her son being the likely owner. 
More recently Ms K said if shed had the jewellery for 20 years, she wouldnt be expected to 
provide receipts. But that doesnt matter here because the jewellery wasnt 20 years old and 
RSA didnt say a receipt was the only acceptable proof of ownership.Based on the evidence Ms K provided, I cant see anything which shows conclusively that 
the jewellery was hers. So, I think it was fair that RSA declined her claim because there was 
insufficient evidence of ownership.
Jewellery ownership
Although Ive addressed the three main issues of complaint, Id like to comment on a further 
point. I think RSA confused matters by trying to show that Ms Ks son owned the jewellery 
and, if he did, it still wouldnt be covered under the policy. Ms K didnt agree because she 
said her son lived with her so his possessions away from home would be covered under her 
policy.
Ms K reported that she was looking after her sons house while he was away. The burglary 
was at his house, the jewellery was stolen from there, and the receipt and photos were her 
sons. So, RSA thought it was more likely that Ms Ks son owned the jewellery. He didnt 
have contents insurance for his house. 
Unprompted, Ms Ks son provided evidence that he paid bills at her home to prove he still 
lived there. I think this was to show that hed be covered under Ms Ks policy, but shed 
already said in her claim that the house next door was her sons. So, I think RSA felt it 
necessary to explain in its decision that it didnt think her son lived with her. RSA went on to 
give more reasons why it thought the jewellery belonged to Ms Ks son and why it didnt think 
he lived at her address. This led to a lot of discussion between the parties and, 
unfortunately, I think this meant the claim continued longer than necessary. 
To be clear, the claim Ms K made was under her policy, for her jewellery, stolen while away 
from home. So, whether or not her son lived with her at the time is irrelevant, because the 
claim wasnt for his possessions. But I dont think RSA caused Ms K any loss over and 
above that already acknowledged when it paid compensation for the delays, so I wont be 
asking it to do anything in respect of the confusion caused here.
Summary
When Ms K made the claim, RSA was entitled to seek proof of ownership in line with the 
terms of the policy. Because it didnt think Ms K had provided suitable evidence, it declined 
her claim and explained why. The claim was drawn out, partly because of the natural course 
of its investigation, but also because RSA caused avoidable delays and some confusion. It 
paid £400 compensation for the inconvenience it caused, which I think is fair in the 
circumstances. And I think it was reasonable for RSA to decline Ms Ks claim because she 
didnt prove ownership. Therefore, I dont uphold the complaint.
I should point out that RSA said it will look at the claim again if Ms K is able to provide proof 
of ownership. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman