DRN-2399985
The complaint
Mr H complains about problems hes had using TSB Bank plcs online banking application.
What happened
Mr H is unhappy with TSBs online banking app  he says it can take several attempts 
before hes able to successfully log into the app. Mr H is also unhappy that TSB told him this 
was because he wasnt using the updated version of the app. Mr H says hes never been 
asked to update the app and that its only updated once. Mr H also says hes able to access 
his other online banking apps and that its just the TSB one he appears to be having 
problems with. Mr H wants £500 compensation as he feels TSB have blamed him for this 
fault.
TSB say they dont guarantee their online banking app will be available at all times and that 
from time to time the service can be disrupted, which is beyond their control. TSB say Mr H 
raised a complaint about not being able to access the online banking app twice in April 2020 
and once in October 2020. TSB say whilst they paid Mr H compensation previously, they 
didnt on this occasion as they didnt feel they had done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with TSBs response, Mr H brought his complaint to our service and our 
investigator looked into his concerns. In summary, he said whilst there may have been 
occasions where Mr H wasnt able to log into the online banking app on the first attempt, 
there hadnt been a detriment to Mr H as he was still able to use and manage his account. 
Mr H disagreed. He said TSB hadnt paid any compensation to him. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration as it appears there have been a number of times where 
its taken him several attempts to log into the banking app. Mr H has also been able to show 
us evidence of the issue he has experienced.
Ive looked at TSBs terms and conditions and they explain Technology is always changing, 
and the web browsers, operating systems and devices we support may change over time. 
That could mean some of your services may no longer be offered or accessible, or they may 
not work properly.
TSB have confirmed this isnt a common issue with their customers and that Mr H was using 
an old version of the app which may have been causing this issue. I appreciate Mr H says 
hes been made to feel like this is his fault and I can understand this wouldve caused some 
upset to Mr H. But Im sure this wasnt TSBs intention. I cant reasonably say TSB were 
wrong to have suggested that not having the latest version of the app was a possible reason 
for the issue hes described. As explained in their terms and conditions, technology is always 
changing. Having considered things, its not entirely clear exactly why Mr H experienced this 
issue  it seems from what Mr H has told us that this doesnt happen every time he attempts 
to log in and he has since downloaded the latest version of the app. 
TSB dont always guarantee that their online banking services will be available at all times 
and this service can be disrupted from time to time. I can see from the information provided 
by TSB that Mr H was still able to log into the app and use his account  the evidence shows 
Mr H was able to make several faster payments out of his account. So, whilst Mr H may 
have experienced this issue intermittently, I dont think it had an impact on him being able to 
use his account in the way he wanted. TSB also offer customers other ways of accessing 
their account like over the phone and in branch. So, Mr H can also use these facilities should 
he wish to.
Mr H says he doesnt experience this issue with other banks online banking apps. However, 
whilst this may be the case, I dont think its a reason to say TSB have done something 
wrong. 
So, considering all of the above, its difficult for me to conclude that TSB have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably here. I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mr H was hoping for, 
but I hope he can understand why I have reached it. It follows that I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman