DRN-3434396
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain that Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) mis-sold them a whole of life 
policy in 1995.
What happened
In November 1994, Mrs P and Mr P met with an adviser from a business that has since been 
acquired by Phoenix Life Limited and a number of policies were recommended. The 
reviewable whole of life policy sold by Phoenix included initial joint life cover of £80,000. The 
monthly premium was initially £40.61 and increased by £4.06 per year for the first five years 
of the policy. Mrs P and Mr P surrendered the policy in 2012.
Phoenix has taken on responsibility for sales made by the business that sold the policy. Any 
reference made to Phoenix is also a reference to the business that sold the policy.
Mrs P and Mr P, who are represented by a claims management company (CMC) complained 
to Phoenix the policy was mis-sold. The CMC said Mrs P and Mr P had no savings at the 
time, no alternative plans were discussed, there was no mention that the life cover could 
reduce, and that Mrs P and Mr P would not have understood the policy.
Phoenix upheld the complaint and said it would have been more appropriate for Mrs P and 
Mr P to have taken a fixed premium term assurance policy over 32 years term. Phoenix said 
his would ensure cover was provided until Mr Ps state retirement age, rather than a 
reviewable whole of life policy. Phoenix offered to cancel the policy from inception and 
compare the cost of a joint life term assurance policy over 32 years. They offered to refund 
the excess amount of premium Mrs P and Mr P had paid plus gross interest at 8% simple, 
less basic rate tax, and less the surrender value issued. On behalf of Mrs P and Mr P, the 
CMC rejected this offer and brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Phoenix provided consent for the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider the complaint.
One of our Investigators looked into things. There was no dispute the whole of life policy had 
been mis-sold, but the Investigator thought a different remedy was more appropriate 
because Mrs P and Mr P didnt have the same retirement dates. The Investigator thought 
Phoenix should work out the difference based on two individual term assurance policies 
being sold. One for Mrs P until her expected retirement date, and one for Mr P until his 
retirement date. But, if a joint policy would have been cheaper, then the offer Phoenix had 
already made would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
The CMC didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an Ombudsman decides the 
complaint and its been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Phoenix accept a fixed premium term assurance policy would have been more suitable. So, 
it seems to me the only issue I have to decide on is how any redress is calculated. I 
appreciate Mrs P and Mr P will be disappointed, but Ive decided that for much the same 
reasons as the Investigator, the redress should be based on the expected retirement ages of 
Mrs P and Mr P. 
The CMC asked that I consider the regulatory obligations incumbent upon an adviser for 
advice given post 1 Jan 1995. The sale of the policy actually took place in November 1994, 
although I note the policy started in January 1995. Regardless of this, there is no dispute 
that a fixed premium term assurance policy would have been more suitable.
The CMC say Mrs P and Mr P were living with Mr Ps parents at the time of the sale and 
were planning to buy their own property soon and had no savings. I acknowledge these 
comments, but the sale took place more than 27 years ago. Im not persuaded these 
comments reflect what was recorded in the fact-find in 1994. And, as the sale took place so 
long ago and recollections of what was said at the time are unlikely to be as reliable as notes 
taken at the time, Ive decided to give more weight to what was recorded in the fact-find. It 
recorded Mrs P and Mr P had no immediate plans to buy a property, and that they were 
jointly saving £250 per month into a building society account for a rainy day. I note Mr P 
was also committed to longer term savings through and endowment taken out in 1992 and 
that it may be used in the near future, maybe to support a mortgage. Taking this information 
into account, whilst I agree Mr Ps endowment may have been used to assist with a house 
purchase, I dont think there is enough evidence for me to conclude this was going to 
happen soon, and regardless of this Mrs and Mr P were already saving £250 into a building 
society account. Because of this, it doesnt seem unreasonable to me that Mrs P and Mr P 
considered protection was now their priority.
The whole of life policy was surrendered in 2012. Although the CMC suggest this supports 
Mrs P and Mr P would not have taken a fixed premium term assurance policy until 
retirement, I dont consider this is a fair and reasonable conclusion. The policy had been in 
force for 17 years when it was surrendered. It may well have been the case that Mrs P and 
Mr P surrendered the policy because they no longer needed it, but, at the time of the sale 
the fact-find recorded they wanted life cover to their expected retirement age. Therefore, I 
consider it more likely Mrs P and Mr P would have selected a term for their fixed premium 
term assurance that ran until their expected retirement. I consider any suggestion they would 
have taken a shorter term on a fixed premium term assurance policy in hindsight is too 
speculative for me to conclude. 
Ive noted the comments from the CMC that Phoenix also sold Mrs P a separate policy for 
living assurance that included additional life cover that wasnt necessary. Phoenix has 
confirmed this policy was surrendered in 2012 and that it provided both life and critical illness 
cover. The sum assured would have been payable in event of either claim (not both). For 
instance, if Mrs P made a critical illness claim the policy would cease after payment and no 
further monies would have been paid in the event of her death. Taking this into account, I 
dont consider Mrs P was over insured if she died, but the living assurance policy provided 
an element of critical illness cover that the policy complained about didnt have. So, Im 
satisfied this doesnt have an impact on my decision about the joint life policy being 
complained about.
Putting things right
Phoenix has agreed a fixed premium term assurance policy for 32 years would have been a 
more appropriate policy for Mrs P and Mr P, but It seems more likely to me Mrs P and Mr P 
would have taken the cheapest option available at the time. So, Ive decided Phoenix should 
calculate the cost of separate plans to the expected retirement ages for each of Mrs P and 
Mr P. Phoenix should then compare the cost against a joint life plan for 32 years and calculate any redress using the cheaper option. I will refer to this as the total premiums paid 
(B) and Phoenix should use the following values to calculate any redress:
The calculation should use the following values:
Total premiums paid in the whole of life policy (A)
The cost of the fixed term plan(s) (B)
The surrender value of the policy paid in 2012 (D)
The calculation should be made using the following steps:
1. (A) minus (B) = (C)
2. 8% simple interest should be calculated to the settlement date and added to (C)
3. If (C) then exceeds (D), the difference should be paid to Mrs P and Mr P
4. If (D) exceeds (C), no redress is payable to Mrs P and Mr P
My final decision
Ive decided that Phoenix Life Limited should pay Mrs P and Mr P the redress detailed 
above, if any, as its a fairer way of resolving the complaint and puts Mrs and Mr P in the 
position they should have been in had they received suitable advice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman