DRN-3736511
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund transactions he says he didnt 
make.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr R says he received a text message from the NHS offering a Covid 
certificate for a payment of £1.99. Mr R says he clicked the link and provided his bank details 
for an account held with another bank that Ill refer to as N.
Mr R says he then received a call from a man who said he worked for N, and convinced     
Mr R he needed to make three payments out of his account with N. After Mr R had made the 
three payments, the caller asked what other bank accounts he held, and Mr R shared that he 
held a Revolut account.
The text and the call were both from fraudsters.
Mr R says the fraudster made two card payments from his Revolut account which he didnt 
authorise. Both payments were for just over £1,600 and were made to an overseas money 
transfer service.
Shortly after the payments came out of his account, Mr R contacted Revolut via their in-app 
chat and let them know that a payment had been made he didnt recognise. Mr R was given 
a chargeback form to complete and provide to Revolut  which he did.
Revolut considered Mr Rs fraud claim and his chargeback request and declined to refund 
him. So, Mr R brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Rs complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought it was most 
likely that Mr R had authorised the transactions as they required 3Ds verification, whereby a 
code was sent to Mr Rs registered mobile device. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying his phone was hacked and that he 
didnt receive the 3Ds verification code.
As the case couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In response to the investigators view Mr R told us that his phone was hacked, which 
enabled the scammers to intercept the verification code required to authorise the 
payment. However, Mr R hasnt provided any evidence that his phone was hacked.
Mr R separately told Revolut when he made his chargeback claim, that he gave the 
scammers his card details and the verification code. By giving his verification code to 
the scammers, Mr R is considered to have authorised the transaction.
Mr R told us initially as part of his complaint that he only gave the scammers his long 
card number. However, the evidence from Revolut supports that the transaction was 
verified by 3Ds, with a verification code sent to Mr Rs registered mobile device.
Based on what Mr R has told us and Revolut its difficult to know exactly what 
happened. However, based on the testimony hes provided I think its more likely 
than not that Mr R authorised these payments, either by making them himself or by 
giving the scammers the verification code. Even if Mr R authorised these payments 
as part of the scam he fell victim to, Revolut can hold him liable, and he wouldnt be 
entitled to a refund.
Revolut say Mr Rs chargeback was declined but have not provided the reason. 
Based on Mr Rs payments going to a money transfer service who forwarded the 
money onto a third party, I cant see that a chargeback wouldve been successful. 
The merchant (the money transfer service) did what they were paid to do, which was 
to transfer the funds onto a third party. Therefore, any chargeback claim is most likely 
to have been successfully defended by the merchant.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint and cant fairly ask Revolut to refund Mr R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman