DRN-3620939
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc wont pay him the balance from an old 
account.
What happened
Mr N took a passbook for an old account into a Bank of Ireland (BOI) branch. The 
passbook showed a balance of £559.23, which Mr N asked to withdraw. But BOI said they 
had no record of the account still being open, and so declined Mr Ns request. Mr N wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
BOI looked at Mr Ns complaint. They confirmed they had no record of the account still being 
open, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr N wasnt satisfied with BOIs response, so 
he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel that BOI had acted unfairly 
towards Mr N in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr N remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The last transaction listed in the passbook took place in 1984, and Mr N believes that the 
balance of £559.23 has remained present in the account since that time. Mr N has also 
stated that he doesnt recall withdrawing any money from the account without it being 
recorded in the passbook, and he also doesnt recall ever receiving the money from the 
account following, for instance, the closure of the account by BOI at any time in the past.
Considering these points, I can appreciate why Mr N feels that BOI should allow him to 
withdraw the £559.23 as he would like. But it also must be noted that it isnt unusual for a 
bank to close long standing accounts and return any money present within them to the 
account holder if that account had remained dormant and unused for a long time  as this 
account did in this instance.
In circumstances such as this, it would be expected that BOI would undertake a thorough 
check to see if the account in question remains open, and also check whether they have any 
record of the account ever being closed.
BOI have confirmed that they have no record of the account still being open and have no 
record of the account being closed. However, given that BOIs account closure records only 
go back to 2007, and given that the last recorded activity on this account took place in 1984, 
it seems more likely to me than not that this account was closed by BOI at some point in the 
past before 2007, but the record of this closure is no longer retained.
BOI have also confirmed that if an account was closed at some point in the past, the money 
in the account would have been returned to the account holder along with a letter of closure. 
Mr N has confirmed that he has no recollection of ever receiving such a letter or the funds 
from the account. But, while I appreciate Mr Ns position, given the full circumstances here 
as explained above, I still feel that its more likely than not that the account would have been 
closed prior to 2007 (potentially significantly prior) as per BOIs process.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr N was wanting, but given the relatively long length 
of time between 1984 and 2007, I trust that hell understand why I dont feel that the 
existence of the old passbook is sufficient proof that the balance stated in that passbook 
necessarily remains present in an open account. Ultimately, if the account was still open, I 
feel that BOI would have been able to locate it. And it must be noted that the passbook 
wouldnt have been required to have been returned to BOI to enable the closure of the 
account, if BOI made the decision to close the account themselves as Ive described above.
All of which means that I dont feel that it can be reasonably or fairly concluded that BOI 
have acted unfairly here by not considering the balance stated in the passbook as being a 
valid, active balance. And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing BOI to take any further action at this time. 
I hope Mr N will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman