DRN-3176629
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) declined his section 75 claim.
What happened
In July 2011 Mr G entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF. The finance was to 
purchase a new porch (doors and windows) which was to be fitted to his sons property.
Mr Gs son experienced some issues with the porch. Mr G raised a claim under section 75. 
In response, BPF said it had no liability under section 75 because the goods had been 
supplied to Mr Gs son but the agreement was in the name of Mr G. BPF said that in these 
circumstances, the debtor-creditor-supplier link wasnt established.
Mr G wasnt happy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt a debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship and that the criteria for a section 75 claim therefore werent met.
Mr G didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit. There can only be a valid claim under section 75 if payment 
was made under what is known as a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, and if it can be 
shown that the supplier acted in breach of contract or misrepresented the contract.
The issue here is the relationship between the debtor (Mr G), the creditor (BPF) and the 
supplier of the doors and windows. In order for the criteria of section 75 to be met, a valid 
debtor-creditor -supplier relationship must exist. There must be a contractual relationship 
between Mr G, BPF and the supplier. 
BPF has said that the necessary contractual relationship doesnt exist in this case. I agree 
with that analysis. This is because, although the finance agreement was between Mr G and 
BPF, the contract for the supply and installation of the porch was between the supplier and 
Mr Gs son (as opposed to the supplier and Mr G). So theres a break in the debtor-creditor-
supplier chain here, which means that the criteria for a valid section 75 claim havent been 
met.
Taking all of the available information into account, I dont think that BPF has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in its handling of the section 75 claim. I dont think the criteria for a valid 
section 75 claim have ben met for the reasons Ive explained.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman