DRN-4097281
The complaint
Mr R, Mr S and Mrs S complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money unfairly 
applied an early repayment charge (ERC) when they repaid a buy-to-let mortgage. They said 
that the ERC wasnt a reasonable estimate of the cost of the mortgage being repaid early.
What happened
In 2017, Mr R, Mr S and Mrs S took out a buy-to-let mortgage with Virgin Money.  It had a 
fixed rate until 1 November 2022w. The offer stated that an ERC of 4% of the outstanding 
loan amount was payable if the mortgage was repaid before 1 November 2022.
In May 2022, Mr R, Mr S and Mrs S repaid the mortgage and  Virgin Money applied an ERC. 
Mr R, Mr S and Mrs S consider the amount of the ERC was unfair for a number of reasons:
They werent aware that the ERC was fixed at 4% for the duration of the fixed rate, rather 
than the usual descending rate, with the final year at 1%.
Virgin Moneys loss was only five months interest of around £666.
The ERC of around £2,400 bears no resemblance to Virgin Moneys actual loss  it is a 
penalty and/or an unreasonable term.
A fair ERC in the last year of a fixed rate would be 1% - that is a reasonable estimate of 
the cost to a lender of early repayment. A 4% ERC is not commercially justifiable or a fair 
balance between the parties.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr R, Mr S and Mrs S did not accept what the investigator said. They made a number of 
points, including:
There is no reason to charge an ERC of 4% when the fixed rate was substantially lower.
The lender knew from the mortgages inception that the maximum interest it would 
receive was lower that the ERC  so it could not be a reasonable pre-estimate of its loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R, Mr S and Mrs S were taking out this mortgage for investment purposes. They werent 
acting as consumers, they were running a business. There was a reasonable expectation 
that they would read the mortgage offer. That set out clearly and prominently that the ERC 
was 4% for the full length of the fixed rate. There is no evidence that Virgin Money led them 
to believe that the ERC would reduce each year or was anything other than stated on the 
offer. Mr R, Mr S and Mrs accepted the terms of the offer and they are contractually bound 
by it.
Consumers who take residential mortgages are protected by regulations, which set out how 
lender should communicate ERCS and how they should be calculated. The relevant rules 
say that an ERC does not have to be calculated individually, it can be calculated across a 
tranche of mortgages of the same type. But the ERC should be a reasonable pre-estimate of 
the cost to the lender of the mortgage being repaid early.
Although this was an unregulated mortgage, I still consider it would only be fair for a lender 
to apply an ERC that was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to it of the mortgage being 
repaid. I would highlight that the rule only says that a lender must reasonably estimate the 
cost  the actual cost to the lender of the mortgage being repaid early might be more or less 
than the ERC. But if it can show that the ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate then it is likely 
I will find it acted fairly.
Because of the way that mortgages are funded, it would be unusual for lenders loss to be 
limited to the interest that was unpaid  although that might (but not always) be one of the 
things that a lender takes into account in calculating an ERC.
Virgin Money has provided an explanation of how it pre-estimates its ERC. It said some of 
the information is commercially sensitive  and I have accepted the information in 
confidence. Our rules allow me to do so, as long as I provide a summary of what we have 
been told. 
Virgin Money has told us that it buys financial instruments called swaps to protect it from 
changes in interest rates. It said this allows it to offer fixed interest rate products. Virgin 
Money said there is a cost to it if the mortgage is repaid early and it has to break the swap 
agreement it entered into. It said it uses a model to forecast the likely cost of exiting the 
swap. That takes into account the term remaining in the mortgage, the average mortgage 
balance and potential break costs, amongst other things. It then averages those costs out 
over the fixed rate term 
I am satisfied that the methodology used by Virgin Money is a reasonable way for it to pre-
estimate what the cost to it of the mortgage being repaid early. It is in line with how some 
other lenders calculate ERCs. And it is supported by the evidence it has provided.
There is no requirement for the ERC to be on a sliding scale. Virgin Money has provided the 
calculations it carried out and they support the 4% ERC was an average of its estimated 
costs over the fixed rate period. It was fair and reasonable for it to apply a fixed ERC over 
the whole fixed rate period. 
I consider that the ERC applied by Virgin Money was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Virgin Money gave Mr R, Mr S and Mrs S enough 
information about the ERC so that they could make an informed choice whether to take this 
mortgage or not. It was their decision to do so. I can see no reason why Virgin Money should 
refund the ERC either partially or in full. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R, Mr S and 
Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 Ken Rose
Ombudsman