DRN-3345216
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the charge for excess mileage that Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, has made after she voluntarily 
terminated the hire purchase agreement under which a car had been supplied to her.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 February 2021 in which I described 
what had happened as follows:
A new car was supplied to Mrs R under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Finance that she signed in October 2013. The car had a price of £41,540.05, 
Mrs R paid a deposit of £1,268 so the amount of credit was £40,272.05 and the total 
amount payable was shown on the agreement as £46,863. Mrs R agreed to make 48 
monthly payments of £590 for the car to be supplied to her. There was also an 
acceptance fee of £180. If Mrs R wanted to purchase the car at the end of the 
agreement shed have to pay an optional purchase payment of £17,000 and a 
purchase activation fee of £95.
Mrs R returned the car when the agreement ended and received an excess mileage 
charge of £1,685.16 from Mercedes-Benz Finance. She said that she thought that 
the annual mileage allowance was 20,000  not the 15,000 miles which had been 
used as the basis for the excess mileage charge. Mercedes-Benz Finance said that 
the signed agreement confirmed a mileage allowance of 15,000 miles per annum and 
a charge of 10p per mile plus VAT if the contracted allowance of 60,000 miles was 
exceeded. It said that the car was returned having performed 74,043 miles so it was 
satisfied that the charge had been raised correctly and payment of £1,685.16 
remained due.
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. She says, in 
summary, that:
shes used a car to travel to and from work every work day for more than 
fifteen years so she knows exactly how many miles she does in a year and 
she insures her cars for 20,000 miles a year;
when she entered into the agreement she informed the dealer that she would 
need the mileage limit to be set at 20,000 miles;
she returned the car in October 2017 and entered into another agreement 
which she asked to be set at 20,000 miles per annum;
she doesnt have her original agreement but is adamant that she wouldnt 
have agreed to a 15,000 mileage limit knowing her daily journey;
the dealer told her that the repayments would be lower if she reduced the 
number of miles but she knew her journey and annual mileage so asked to go 
with a 20,000 mile limit;
the agreement that Mercedes-Benz Finance has provided shows 15,000 
miles per annum, but not on the page that she signed, and she believes that 
there has been an error made and that the agreement has been mixed up or 
tampered with;
the dealers representatives that she dealt with have left so she cant speak to 
them; and
she feels like shed been tricked into a charge that she wouldnt have agreed 
to.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
Mercedes-Benz Finance has provided a copy of the hire purchase agreement that 
was signed by Mrs R in October 2013. It says:
If you do not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle, an excess distance 
charge will be payable at the rate of 10.00 pence (plus VAT) for each Mile by 
which the total distance travelled by the vehicle at the end of the period of hire 
exceeds the allowed distance, calculated at the rate of 15,000 Miles per year 
(see Condition 12).
Condition 12 contains more information about the excess mileage charge.
Mercedes-Benz Finance says that the cars mileage when it was returned by Mrs R 
was 74,043 miles - so 14,043 miles more than the allowed distance of 60,000 miles  
and it charged her £1,685.16 for that excess mileage.
Mrs R has described in detail the reasons that she says that she wouldnt have 
agreed to a mileage limit of 15,000 and she says that Mercedes-Benz Finance cant 
provide her with a copy of the agreement on which the page showing the mileage 
allowance has been signed or initialled.
Mrs R signed the second page of the agreement and immediately above her 
signature it says:
This is a Hire purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms.
The first page of the agreement includes the main financial terms of the agreement 
and the provisions shown above relating to excess mileage. I dont consider that 
there was any requirement for Mrs R or Mercedes-Benz Finance to have signed or 
initialled the first page of the agreement. Mrs R hasnt been able to provide the copy 
of the agreement that was provided to her because she says it was lost when she 
moved house  nor has she been able to provide any other documentary evidence to 
show that shed agreed a 20,000 annual mileage limit with Mercedes-Benz Finance.
Mrs R clearly feels very strongly that she wouldnt have agreed to a mileage limit of 
20,000  but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that an error 
has been made with the mileage limit, that the pages of the agreement have been 
mixed up or that the agreement has been tampered with. Mrs R signed the 
agreement to agree to its terms and it was her responsibility to read the agreement to 
check that it contained the terms that she was expecting.I sympathise with Mrs R that the agreement doesnt reflect the terms that she thought 
it did, but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mercedes-
Benz Finance has acted incorrectly in charging her £1,685.16 for excess mileage.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
Mercedes-Bean Finance to waive, or reduce, that charge, to pay any compensation 
to Mrs R or to take any other action in response to her complaint. I suggest that Mrs 
R now contacts Mercedes-Benz Finance to pay that charge, or to agree a repayment 
arrangement if shes unable to pay it in full. If she doesnt do so, I consider it to be 
likely that Mercedes-Benz Finance will take further action against her, to the extent 
that its legally entitled to do so, to enforce payment.
Subject to any further comments from Mrs R or from Mercedes-Benz Finance my provisional 
decision was that I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. Mercedes-Benz Finance has 
accepted my provisional decision but Mrs R hasnt responded to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs R hasnt responded to my provisional decision and Mercedes-Benz Finance has 
accepted it, I see no reason to change the findings that I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman