DRN-4147340
The complaint
Mr E complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied when he returned a car after his hire agreement ended.
What happened
Mr E entered into a hire agreement in September 2019. Mr E says hes unhappy with the 
end of contract charges that were applied when he returned the car. Mr E told us:
The collection agent told him he had a beautiful car and there were only some scuffs 
on the tyres, but he then received an invoice from MBFS for £955 in respect of 
damages following an inspection;
there was a problem with the car being collected initially because he says although 
MBFS told him an up-to-date MOT was not required, the collection agent said an 
MOT was needed so the car had to be collected on a low loader;
when he was signing the collection agents tablet, reference was made to a dink on 
the passenger door  something he says hed never seen before  the car had been 
sitting on his driveway for more than a week;
MBFS is trying to charge him for damage to the car that he didnt cause, and one of 
the items listed on the invoice isnt damage  its simply cleaning fluid residue that 
can be wiped off;
he returned the car with around 20,000 fewer miles on the clock  the car should be 
worth an extra £1,500 to MBFS.
hes shocked to have received an invoice for £955, including £330 for the alloy 
wheels.
MBFS rejected this complaint. It said the first inspection did not proceed as the car didnt 
have a valid MOT on the day it was collected. It said a second inspection  something that 
all returned cars are subject to  identified a number of areas of damage and this is what 
was detailed on the invoice
MBFS told us that it provided Mr E with a copy of its Vehicle Return Standards when he first 
took out the finance agreement and again six months before it ended. It said this document 
detailed the expected return condition of Mr Es car. And it said Mr E had had ample 
opportunity to familiarise himself with its fair wear and tear expectations.
MBFS said it was satisfied that the damage it had identified was clearly evidenced and had 
been charged in accordance with the Vehicle Returns Standards. And it confirmed that it 
was owed £955.00 by Mr E. MBFS explained that the finance agreement signed by Mr E had 
clearly stated that if you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the 
vehicle in accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and / or the Vehicle Return 
Standards, you will have to pay our costs either of repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, 
or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as compensation. If 
upon return of the vehicle, the vehicledoes not meet the Vehicle Return Standardsthen 
you will compensate us for any loss that we may suffer.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she that she thought four of the charges 
levied by MBFS were fair, but that it should remove the other two charges; the charge for the 
right-hand front wheel in respect of alleged spoke damage; and the charge for the right-hand 
rear door shut inner. This would result in a revised invoice of £740.
MBFS reviewed our investigators opinion and said it would remove the charge for the door 
shut inner. But it provided additional narrative about the damage to the alloy of the right-
hand front wheel which was accepted by our investigator. She revised her findings to say 
that the amount that Mr E should pay was £850, and this was, in her opinion, fair.
Mr E disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says he doesnt know where the 
damage has come from  it mustve been caused by MBFS or the collection agent, and he 
couldve had any damage repaired before the car was collected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr E wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of his complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. Mr E should note, 
however, that although I may not address each individual point that hes raised, I have given 
careful consideration to all of his submissions before arriving at my decision.
Firstly, I understand why Mr E wants to see an improvement in MBFS processes for the 
inspection and return of its cars. But that isnt the role of this Service, and my role isnt to 
punish businesses for their performance or behaviour, thats the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to look at problems that a consumer may have 
experienced and see if the business, in this case MBFS, has done anything wrong. If it has, I 
seek to put the consumer  Mr E  back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistakes 
hadnt happened. And I may award compensation if I think its appropriate
Having considered all the evidence and testimony from both Mr E and MBFS afresh, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
Collection issues
Mr E said MBFS told him that having no MOT wouldnt be an issue for the collection agent. 
MBFS disagrees. And the agent said that it couldnt collect the car without it having a valid 
MOT.
Where the parties disagree about what happened, I have to look at the documentary 
evidence to conclude what is, on balance more likely to be the case. In this particular case, 
Ive seen a letter from the collection agent that explains the process for collecting the car. 
This letter says, We can only collect your vehicle if it is safe to do so. Please make sure that 
your vehicle has no warning lights, and that it is road legal and in a safe to drive on the day 
that we collect it. So, Im satisfied that on receipt of this letter, Mr E ought reasonably to 
have known that the car needed to have an up-to-date MOT certificate  it needed to be 
road legal.
Moreover, the Hire Agreement that Mr E signed in 2019 says, Where the vehicle is over 
three years old from the date of registration, it will need a valid MOT certificate.Damage charges
The terms and conditions of the agreement, signed by Mr E, sets out in some detail the 
acceptable return condition of the car. It clearly sets out what the acceptable conditions are, 
with examples, and what conditions are unacceptable. Ive read this carefully, and Im 
satisfied that Mr E was responsible for returning the car in good condition, but the question is 
whether all the charges applied by MBFS are fair and reasonable.
MBFSs inspection identifies areas of damage that it deems to be unacceptable - outside fair 
wear and tear  five of these are currently in dispute:
1. Wheel  left hand front  spoke damaged £110.00
2. Wheel  right hand front  spoke damaged £110.00
3. Wheel  right hand rear  rim damaged £110.00
4. Quarter panel  left hand rear  dented £260.00
5. Door  left hand front  dented £260.00
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, Ive also taken these into account 
alongside MBFS Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable for MBFS to charge Mr E
The BVRLA guidance sets out the standard regarding fair wear and tear. Ive looked 
carefully at what it says in regard to the areas identified by MBFS. It says that:
Scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels 
are acceptable. Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia or hub of the alloy 
wheel is not acceptable.
Surface scratches on paintwork, bodywork and bumpers of less than 25mm are 
acceptable as long as the primer or bare metal isnt showing, and the scratch can be 
polished out.
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable providedthe paint surface is not 
broken. Dents on the swage line of any panel are not acceptable.
So, Im satisfied that the areas identified by MBFS as damaged are indeed beyond what is 
recognised as fair wear and tear according to the published industry standards.
Next, Ive looked at the VRS that were in place at the time Mr E signed his hire agreement in 
in 2019. These say:
Wheels and Tyres  Scuffs chips and scratches exceeding 25mm are not 
acceptable.
Body & Paint  Any chipping and scratching of paintwork that has penetrated the 
base coat and/or has caused corrosion of any kind which cannot be polished out is 
not acceptable
Ive looked very carefully at the evidence MBFS provided, and Im satisfied that for each of 
the five disputed charges, the damage is outside fair wear and tear. The evidence can be 
seen clearly in the photographs provided by the third-party inspection agent.
Ive gone on to consider whether there was any other reason why it would be unfair for 
MBFS to apply these charges. I understand that the car was returned with a lower-than-
expected mileage. Mr E told us that because he drove far fewer than the contracted mileage allowance, the car should be worth an extra £1500. But Ive seen nothing in the 
agreements terms and conditions that would allow for Mr E to receive a discount or a credit 
for utilising less than the maximum permitted mileage. So, I wouldnt expect MBFS to offer 
Mr E any rebate for this.
Ive considered Mr Es comments that some of this damage took place after the vehicle was 
collected from his home, but I just dont think this is likely. I say this because MBFS 
appointed an independent third party, one that is recognised in the industry, to conduct an 
assessment. And although Mr E says that when the car was collected, none of the disputed 
damage was noted or highlighted to him, I think its more likely than not that the nature of the 
identified damage wouldnt have been apparent until the car was thoroughly examined later. 
And this subsequent, more detailed examination was expected. When Mr E first signed his 
finance agreement, theres a section on it that says an inspection will be carried out by 
trained technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre..
Im satisfied that Mr E ought reasonably to have been aware that a detailed inspection would 
take place after the car had been collected, and that following this, MBFS would advise him 
of the outcome of that inspection and any charges that were due.
Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges MBFS asked Mr E to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with its own VRS and the relevant industry guidance and that MBFS has 
acted fairly in respect of the charges it applied.
I know Mr E will be disappointed with the outcome of his complaint, but I hope he 
understands why Ive reached the conclusions that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman