DRN-3355163
The complaint
Mr H complains about a loan provided to him by Bamboo Limited, (Bamboo), which he 
says was unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this service on Mr Hs behalf by a claims 
management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr H.
What happened
Mr H entered into an agreement with Bamboo for a loan of £3,000 on 28 November 2019. 
The loan was repayable by 17 monthly repayments of £225.88 and one monthly repayment 
of £225.92. The loan was secured by a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if 
Mr H failed to make his repayments. The interest rate was 41%, (49.7% APR). If Mr H made 
each payment when it was due, hed pay £4,065.88 in total. The loan was repaid on            
27 August 2020.
Mr H says that Bamboo failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment. If an
effective assessment had been carried out, Bamboo would not have provided him with a 
loan. 
In its final response letter, Bamboo said that its review showed that Mr H had good credit 
profiles at the time of his application. He had no active payday loans, no county court 
judgements, and no defaults. It said he was managing his finances well. It also considered 
Mr Hs debt amount of £5,336 to be manageable in relation to his income of £26,400 and not 
excessive. Based on this information, Bamboo considered that Mr H was creditworthy. It 
used a credit reference agency income verification tool which drew on bank account data to 
check that Mr H had the necessary income and made a statistical determination of his 
additional living expenses using data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS). After 
deducting Mr Hs living costs and loan servicing costs, Bamboo said that he had a monthly 
disposable income of £384.55 to meet the proposed monthly loan repayment of £225.88. 
This showed that the payments should have been affordable for Mr H and there was a buffer 
in case of emergencies. Bamboo said it appreciated that self-employed income could be 
erratic. But it had comfort that Mr Hs net monthly disposable income was high enough to be 
able to even out any low earning periods, especially if the loan was being used for debt 
consolidation as stated in Mr Hs application. Bamboo considered that sufficient and 
proportionate checks were made prior to approving Mr Hs application and that the loan was 
sustainably affordable for him. Although Bamboo didnt believe it had done anything wrong, it   
offered Mr H £250 as a gesture of goodwill in full and final settlement of his complaint. 
It doesnt appear that Bamboos offer was accepted.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She appreciated that Mr H had 
declared that this loan was for debt consolidation. But shed noted that Mr H was using 
payday lenders and said that Mr H was most likely reliant on credit to supplement a gap in 
his finances. So, she thought Bamboo shouldve realised that this loan wasnt sustainable.
Bamboo disagreed and responded to the investigators view to say, in summary, that:
- It acknowledged that Mr H was utilising his overdraft on one of his current accounts, but 
it said that the balance outstanding was much less than one months net monthly 
income for him. On another of his current accounts, he had no requirement for an 
overdraft at all and was not utilising a £1,000 overdraft limit on another. He was also 
only using 37% of his revolving credit.
- Mr H had 13 open credit lines at the time of the application but was only actively utilising 
five of these accounts showing that he was in control of his finances. 
- One of Mr Hs loans had a balance of £516. As he was paying £609 a month towards 
this loan, this meant that within a month of the Bamboo loan, he would have less credit 
commitments.
- It did not consider the regular use of payday loans to be an instant indication that a 
consumer was struggling financially, especially for someone who was self-employed 
and was managing their cash flow levels. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H
and to Bamboo on 4 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
When Bamboo lent to Mr H the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
Bamboo was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Hs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This meant that 
Bamboo had to consider both the risk to it that Mr H wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr H of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, Bamboo had to consider Mr Hs ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation. 
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
was down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wished to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what was appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
 the lower a borrowers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
Id noted that Bamboo had gathered some information from Mr H about his income and 
accommodation expenses before it agreed the loan. It had also carried out a credit check. 
Mr H told Bamboo he was living with his partner and had one dependent, he was a tenant 
and paid £550 rent, he was self-employed, and his net monthly income was £2,200. 
I thought the fact that Mr H was self-employed meant that his income might have been 
sporadic or likely to fluctuate. His declared income might not have been his available income 
and might not have been net of all tax, national insurance, and business expenses. There 
was also an element of uncertainty  especially as Mr H was unlikely to receive any sick pay 
or holiday pay. So, I thought this might have caused Bamboo to take additional care when 
reviewing Mr Hs loan application. I couldnt see that it had asked Mr H for more information 
about his self-employed income. I could see that Bamboo had said it used a credit reference 
agency income verification tool to verify his income. But I didnt think the income amount 
verified by the verification tool was likely to be accurate. Mr Hs income from self-
employment was likely to fluctuate from month to month and be a gross amount before the 
deductions Id referred to above were made. So, in these circumstances, Id thought it would 
have been reasonable for Bamboo to do more to verify Mr Hs actual net income.
Bamboo didnt ask Mr H for any information about his living costs. It assessed these 
according to ONS statistical information. 
Id noted that Bamboo had said that Mr Hs net monthly disposable income was high enough 
to be able to even out any low earning periods. But as it calculated Mr Hs monthly 
disposable income to be £158.67 (after Bamboos loan repayment), this wouldnt have even 
covered two days absence from work a month. So, I didnt think it could safely conclude in 
Mr Hs circumstances that he would have sufficient disposable income over the loan term for 
the loan to be repaid without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on his 
financial situation. 
The lender had used information from its credit checks to assess Mr Hs monthly credit 
commitments at £866.63.  
Id reviewed Bamboos credit checks. Id noted that these showed that Mr H had 13 active 
credit accounts and that seven of these had been opened in the previous six months. 
I could see that Mr H had opened a credit card account in May 2019. The credit limit was 
£800 and the current balance on the credit check was shown as £755. I could see that the 
outstanding balance had ranged between £728 and £782 for the five months prior to the loan 
application. So, Mr H was barely making any inroads into the amount he owed his credit card 
provider. Id noted that Mr Hs most recent payment to this account was just £25. 
Id also noted that Mr H had a number of current accounts, but that only one appeared to be 
overdrawn with an overdraft of £1,481. But this was near the overdraft limit of £1,500 and 
was at its highest level since the earliest credit record in March 2019. 
More worryingly, Id noted that Mr H had borrowed six loans from June 2019 to          
October 2019. Hed borrowed a home credit loan and an unsecured loan (likely to be a 
payday loan) totalling £983 in June 2019. Hed then borrowed two unsecured loans (likely to be payday loans) in August 2019 (totalling £1,264). In September 2019, hed borrowed a 
home credit loan for £590 and in October 2019 hed borrowed a home credit loan for £2,191. 
Three of these loans had been repaid. Whilst Bamboo said that Mr H was managing his 
cash flows with these loans, I thought this was unlikely as hed been borrowing on average 
over £1,000 each month.
The credit checks also showed that Mr H was taking out payday loans regularly throughout 
2017 and 2018.
Simply performing credit checks isnt enough. A lender needs to react appropriately to the 
information that any checks show. Altogether I thought Bamboos credit checks ought to 
have caused it concerns as Mr Hs finances appeared to be under pressure and suggested 
that Mr H was likely struggling to manage his money. This was shown on its credit checks by 
Mr Hs relatively recent need for a relatively high amount of credit as shown by a credit card 
account near its credit limit, a current account near its overdraft limit and at its highest point 
since March 2019, and six recent loans totalling over £5,000 in the six months prior to his 
loan application. I thought it would have been reasonable for Bamboo to conclude from its 
credit checks that despite the disposable income it had calculated, it was likely that Mr H 
wouldnt be able to repay the loan without the repayments having an adverse effect on his 
financial situation. 
Bamboo was also likely aware that not all lenders reported to the same credit reference 
agencies and a lenders credit check wouldnt always be up to date. So, it was likely to know 
that Mr H could have had other credit which wasnt shown on its credit checks.
Bamboo said that Mr H had told it that his payday loans would be settled within the next two 
months and he wouldnt need any moving forward. Hed also said he would be using the 
loan proceeds to consolidate some of his debts. I couldnt see from the information received 
from Bamboo that it had made debt consolidation a condition of the loan. So, it couldnt be 
sure that the loans would be paid off. And Mr H would still have been left with a relatively 
large amount of debt to repay even if he did repay some of his debts with the loan proceeds. 
I also thought the relatively high amount of short term borrowing shown on the credit checks 
might have suggested that Mr H was having serious problems managing his finances that a 
debt consolidation wouldnt have solved. Mr Hs need for credit appeared to be an ongoing 
one and his finances werent stable. 
Bamboo also said that one of Mr Hs payday loans would be paid within a month of its loan 
and that his credit commitments would then decrease. But, in view of Mr Hs recent need to 
borrow as shown in Bamboos credit checks, I didnt think it could safely assume that Mr H 
wouldnt borrow again after hed received its loan. 
I could also see that even if Mr H had used the proceeds of the loan for debt consolidation, 
his total indebtedness was still increasing. Hed be using a loan of £3,000 to repay debt, but 
he would need around £4,065 to repay that loan.  
I also didnt think it was reasonable for Bamboo to rely on statistical information about Mr Hs 
living costs without verifying them. Bamboo used ONS data, which was based on the 
finances and expenditure of the average consumer, to estimate Mr Hs living expenses. But 
Mr Hs multiple recent credit applications meant that Bamboo knew it was providing a loan to 
someone who fell outside this average portfolio. I didnt think that using ONS data  which 
was unlikely to reflect the existing commitments of someone in Mr Hs circumstances - was 
fair, reasonable, and proportionate. Altogether, I didnt think that Bamboo had carried out proportionate checks here. Its 
affordability assessment wasnt tailored to Mr H and I thought it should have been in his 
circumstances.
Id noted that Bamboo said that Mr H had a monthly disposable income of £384.55 to meet 
the monthly proposed loan repayment of £225.88, and that this showed that the payments 
should have been affordable for Mr H. It seemed to me that Bamboo was focussing on its 
calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Mr H on a pounds and pence basis. But 
the lender was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably make his loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be 
an indication that a borrower could sustainably make the repayments. But it didnt 
automatically follow that this was the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow 
further in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought 
fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wouldnt be able to sustainably make their 
repayments if it was on notice that they were unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further.
Id said that I wasnt going to investigate what further checks might have shown in view of 
what Id said above. Overall, I was satisfied that the available information demonstrated that 
Mr H wasnt in a position to take on any more debt and so Bamboos decision to arrange the 
loan wasnt fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Agreeing further credit for Mr H was 
only likely to add to his financial pressures. And, I thought Bamboo ought to have been 
concerned about Mr Hs ability to repay its loan out of his usual means, without borrowing, 
as it didnt appear he was managing to do so with his existing debt. 
I thought it worth mentioning that Id reviewed the credit report Mr H provided to this Service. 
I could see that this showed that Mr H had a larger amount of existing credit at the time of 
his loan application than that shown in Bamboos credit checks. I could see hed borrowed 
another two payday loans in November 2019 totalling £500 before hed applied for Bamboos 
loan. There were also a significant number of relatively recent credit searches shown in the 
credit report. 
Id noted that Bamboo said that Mr H had repaid the loan well. But I could see that his third 
repayment was made late, around a week after the due date. And I didnt think that Mr Hs 
ability to make his other repayments necessarily meant that the loan repayments were 
repaid without him having to borrow to meet the repayments, without him failing to make any 
other repayment he had a contractual or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments 
having a significant adverse effect on his financial situation. 
So, for the reasons set out above, and subject to any further representations by Mr H or 
Bamboo, I intended to say that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld, and that Bamboo should 
put things right as follows: 
Putting things right  what Bamboo needs to do
I dont think Bamboo should have agreed to give the loan to Mr H. So, Bamboo should:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Mr H paid on the loan;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
3. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the 
loan.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr H hasnt responded to my provisional decision.
Bamboo responded to my provisional decision to say that it had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr H and Bamboo have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
uphold this complaint and require Bamboo to take the steps set out above under the heading
Putting things right - what Bamboo needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Bamboo Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading Putting 
things right  what Bamboo needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman