DRN-4247959
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy that P J Hayman & Company Limited (PJH) mis-sold her a travel
insurance policy. Shes also unhappy with the service provided.
Although Mrs K is being represented in this complaint, for ease, Ive referred to arguments
made on her behalf as having been made by her.
What happened
A family member of Mrs K (the family member) contacted PJH  an insurance broker - in
early 2022 to enquire about travel insurance for Mrs K. They discussed the country Mrs K
was going to travel to, where she lived and dates of travel.
To provide an insurance quote, PJHs representative asked questions about Mrs Ks health
and medical history. The family member suggested that the representative contact Mrs K
directly to ask her these questions, which he proceeded to do.
Subsequently, PJHs representative provided the family member with details of an insurance
policy including the premium for different levels of cover.
After the family member discussed the options with another family member, they opted to
take out a single trip silver travel insurance policy for Mrs K, costing around £800 (the
policy). Details of the policy  including the policy terms and conditions, Insurance Product
Information Document (IPID) and schedule of insurance  were sent to the family members
email address for the attention of Mrs K.
Shortly after Mrs K started her trip, she was hospitalised and required medical treatment.
The family member contacted the insurer of the policy for assistance and was told that Mrs K
wasnt covered under the policy as her intended travel dates exceeded the policy dates.
Once the issue was looked into, it was concluded that the dates of cover was caused by a
misunderstanding and the insurer ultimately agreed to provide cover under the policy.
However, Mrs K says this initially caused her and her family a great deal of worry at a very
difficult time. Shes also pointed out a number of other issues with the policy and says the
policy was mis-sold to her.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ks complaint. She disagreed so this complaint was
passed to me to look at everything afresh and decide. I issued my provisional decision in 
June 2023 explaining in more detail why I wasnt intending to uphold this complaint, an 
extract of which is set out below.
.
I acknowledge that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mrs K has, and in
my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. The rules
that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do this as its an informal dispute
resolution service. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive overlooked it.
I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able to reach
what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome here.
Im also aware that Mrs K has referred a complaint to our service about the way in which her
claim was handled by the insurer and the assistance received under the policy. That
complaint has been set up and investigated against another financial business. And does not
form part of the complaint Ive considered against PJH  although there is some crossover.
As PJH sold the policy on a non-advised basis, it had a regulatory obligation to ensure that
Mrs K was given clear, fair and not misleading information about the main terms of the policy
when selling the policy to her.
Was Mrs K eligible for the policy?
Based on the definitions in the terms of the policy, I can understand why Mrs K says that she
didnt meet the eligibility requirements of the policy. Given her home address was outside
the UK and the way in which UK is defined, it seems she wasnt eligible under the policy.
This shouldve been explained to her at the time, and it wasnt. So, Ive considered the
impact this has had on Mrs K.
The insurer hasnt taken issue with the country in which she resided, and it wasnt a reason
for declining the claim initially. So, I dont think this mattered to the insurer on this occasion
and Im satisfied that Mrs K didnt experience any personal distress and inconvenience
because of this issue. It looks like her family only became aware of this issue when they
considered the terms of the policy after the error with the dates of cover came to light.
Ultimately, the underwriter of the policy paid the claims made under the policy in excess of
£30,000, provided medical assistance and waived the additional premium which shouldve
been paid for the policy at the time. So, even if Mrs K wasnt eligible for the policy, its
responded to the claim, and I dont think Mrs K has lost out.
Mrs K also says her age made her ineligible for the policy. But I disagree. The policy terms
say on page 5 that theres no upper age limit for single trip policies so long as travel wasnt
to USA, Canada, the Caribbean and Mexico (when there is an age restriction of 79 at the
date of purchase). As Mrs K wasnt travelling to any of those areas, Im satisfied the age
restriction didnt apply.
Dates of cover
Its clear that the dates of Mrs Ks trip didnt match the period of insurance under the policy.
Ive considered carefully whether PJH is responsible for this by listening to the call
recordings from the time.
When first contacting PJHs representative about travel insurance, the family member said
that Mrs K would be away for six weeks. The family member then gives the dates to be 21
February 2022 to 12 March 2022. I accept thats less than six weeks, but I dont think it
would be fair and reasonable for me to hold PJH responsible for using the dates expressly
given to it by the family member as the basis of searching the market for travel insurance
and generating the eventual quote.
The family member says Mrs K was due to return home on a Friday which she says was
Easter Friday. PJH says 12 March 2022 is a Saturday and asks if she means 11 March
2022. And the family member agrees. In the circumstances of this case, I dont think itwouldve fair and reasonable for PJHs representative to check whether 11 March 2022 was
Easter Friday or not. I think the representative was entitled to rely on dates given by the
family member and confirmed with them at the time.
There were other calls with the family member and Mrs K directly where PJH expressly
confirmed the dates of travel that had been given and neither of them confirmed that they
were incorrect. The dates of cover are also set out at the top of the insurance schedule, and
no one contacted PJH upon receipt of the schedule of insurance to say the dates of cover
were wrong.
So, whilst I can of course understand why it came as a shock to Mrs K and her family that
the dates of cover were incorrect when Mrs K became hospitalised whilst away and needed
to claim on the policy, Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to hold PJH responsible
for this misunderstanding and subsequent stress and worry this caused.
Was Mrs K given clear, fair and not misleading information about the main terms of the
policy?
During the conversations the family member had with PJHs representative, I can see that
she was told of some of the main features of the policy including its price, the excess and
benefit limits for cancellation cover and emergency medical expenses. After payment was
taken and the policy was incepted, PJH also sent the policy documents including IPID which
was only two pages long and summarised the main features of the policy including other
benefit limits, what is and isnt covered and cancellation terms.
The IPID also sets out details of the insurer and the company who is said to have sold the
policy (which wasnt PJH), who also administered it. This isnt an unusual setup in travel
insurance policies. So, this information was provided at the point of sale and if Mrs K wasnt
happy with this arrangement, she couldve raised this at the time. Because it wasnt raised, I
dont think having more information about the identity of the insurer and the other company
who is said to have administered and sold the policy, mattered much to Mrs K at the time or
wouldve put her off taking the policy if she or the family member had been given more
information about that during the calls.
Im also satisfied that PJHs representative was correct when they confirmed theyre an
insurance broker. Looking at the Financial Services Register, PJH are regulated to arrange
non-investment insurance contracts. I think that includes travel insurance. Thats consistent
with PJHs website which reflects its a travel insurance and schemes intermediary and it
can provide a range of travel insurance products underwritten by different insurers.
The cancellation section of the policy
I dont think having more information about the terms of the cancellation section of the policy
wouldve put Mrs K off buying the policy. Her flights had been booked by the time shed
taken out the policy. However, had she needed to cancel her trip and the reason for
cancellation was due to an insured event detailed under the cancellation section of the policy
terms and conditions, Ive seen nothing which persuades me that it wouldnt have been
covered.
Mrs Ks vulnerabilities
I dont think PJHs representatives acted unreasonably by contacting Mrs K directly to ask
questions about her medical history and health. From listening to the calls, Im satisfied that
two family members were unable to provide the information required to answer the
necessary questions and the family member suggested PJHs representative contact Mrs Kdirectly and gave her contact number.
Having listened to the call with Mrs K (which wasnt particularly long, lasting around 20
minutes), I think the representative acted professionally and patiently. Its clear that Mrs K
was recalling lots of medical details over some time but with appropriate time being allowed
between questions, she was able to do this. I dont think anything happened or was said
during that call which ought to have alerted the representative to think she was particularly
vulnerable.
I dont think PJH was under any obligation, regulatory, legal or otherwise to request that a fit
to fly certificate had been issued by Mrs Ks GP at the point of selling the policy. There was
nothing to suggest that she wasnt fit to fly, and a different family member said during one of
the calls that hed seen Mrs K recently and her health was fine.
Other issues
Although, the family member wasnt provided with an invoice by PJH in the format which the
family member says is acceptable, Im satisfied payment of the premium was acknowledged
in an email dated February 2022 confirming the policy had been purchased and containing a
hyper-link to log into an account to view the policy documents. Further the schedule of
insurance sets out a breakdown of the cost of the premium.
I dont think it was unfair for the policy to include hazardous activity cover. The schedule of
insurance does reflect hazardous activities A as an additional option. The policys terms
and conditions set out cover for hazardous pursuits starting at page 15. It contains a list
(category A) which includes activities automatically covered under the policy. Activities
listed in category B are only covered if a further premium is paid. So, Im satisfied that there
was no option for category A activities to be added or removed from the policy. And that Mrs
K didnt pay an optional extra premium for category A activities to be included.
Mrs K has also raised concerns about different financial businesses involved with the sale of
the policy. As mentioned above, the IPID reflects that the policy was sold and administered
by another business. The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt the regulator, and I can only
look at particular individual complaints against stipulated financial businesses about
regulated activities  which is what Ive done here. If Mrs K has any concerns about the way
PJH operates its business in general, shes free to raise those with the regulator - the 
Financial Conduct Authority.

I invited both parties to provide any further comments in response to my provisional decision. 
PJH had nothing further to add and accepted my provisional findings. Mrs K disagreed and 
provided comments which mainly related to the linked complaint being determined our 
Service. However, she raised her wider concerns about the role of our Service, the way its 
funded and referred to online reviews. Mrs K also says that shell approach the Financial 
Conduct Authority about issues relating to PJH. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Mrs K has raised no substantive comments relevant to the individual circumstances of 
this complaint, and PJH has nothing further to add, Im satisfied theres no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings. 
Because of this, and for reasons set out in my provisional decision (an extract of which is set 
out above and forms part of, this, my final decision), I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman