DRN-3698306
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with the service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc surrounding an 
attempted car purchase.
What happened
Mrs T tried to buy a new car using her debit card via the merchants website but received a 
payment failed message. However, she noticed that the attempted payment amount was no 
longer available to her in her HSBC account, and when she spoke with HSBC about this she 
was told that this was because HSBC had authorised the payment, as Mrs T had requested, 
but that the payment showed with them as having not being accepted by the merchant. Mrs 
T contacted the merchant, who said that they had no payment from HSBC available to 
collect. Mrs T wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint with HSBC.
HSBC looked at Mrs Ts complaint. But they confirmed that they had authorised the 
payment, and so they felt that any issue with the payment must have originated with the 
merchant and therefore wasnt something for which they were responsible. Mrs T wasnt 
happy with HSBCs response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint. But they felt that HSBC had been able to 
demonstrate that theyd approved the payment as theyd previously explained to Mrs T, and 
so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how the events under consideration here would have been unsettling and 
upsetting for Mrs T. However, HSBC have been able to provide screenshots of their internal 
systems which Im satisfied does demonstrate that they did authorise the payment to the 
merchant as Mrs T requested.
Its understood that Mrs T attempted to make the payment using her debit card details via 
the merchants website. And its also understood that Mrs T has approached the merchant, 
who have confirmed that they didnt receive any payment from HSBC for them to collect. 
It seems clear to me that the attempted payment did fail at some point in the transactional 
chain. And given that HSBC have demonstrated that they authorised the payment, as well as 
that the merchant has confirmed they never received it, it seems possible to me that the 
issue may have been in the part of the transactional chain that connects the two parties.
However, given that I am satisfied from the information that HSBC have presented to this 
service that HSBC did authorise the payment that Mrs T requested, I dont feel that I can 
fairly or reasonably uphold this complaint against HSBC as Mrs T would like. 
Additionally, because HSBC had approved the payment, but they had no record of the 
merchant accepting it, I dont feel that it was unreasonable for them to hold the requested 
payment funds aside, pending the acceptance of that payment by the merchant.
Id like to clarify that Im not saying here that Mrs T hasnt been inconvenienced and 
distressed by what happened, but that Im saying that Im satisfied from the information Ive 
reviewed that HSBC shouldnt be considered as being responsible for that upset and 
inconvenience. In short, I dont dispute that something went wrong here. But I dont think that 
it was HSBCs fault, and I also dont think HSBC acted unfairly by following the process that 
they did.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs T was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint against HSBC or instructing them to take any further 
action. I hope Mrs T will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman