DRN-3119724
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) unfairly declined their 
claim for storm damage under their buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had buildings insurance with Fairmead. Their home has a flat roof. So they 
were required by Fairmead to get an independent assessment that confirms the roof is in 
good order every five years. They did this in April 2018.
But following a storm in 2020, they noticed a leak. Their policy included emergency cover, 
through which a contractor came out to carry out a temporary repair. Mr and Mrs W said that 
this didnt temporarily correct the issue, as the contractor only spent one hour at their home. 
And that he didnt look inside their property to check whether thered been any internal 
damage.
Mr and Mrs W made a claim under their buildings insurance for storm damage to their flat 
roof. The leak had also caused damage to their bathroom wall, so this was included in their 
claim. 
Fairmead sent an assessor to inspect the damage. He took photos of the roof using a 
telescopic camera. After reviewing the assessors report, Fairmead declined the claim. They 
said the damage wasnt caused by the storm. 
So Mr and Mrs W complained to Fairmead. They were unhappy that their claim had been 
declined. They said the assessor had seemed to accept their claim. And they said theyd not 
been notified of the claim decision in a timely manner.
In their final response letter, Fairmead maintained their decision to decline the claim. But 
apologised for Mr and Mrs W not being notified about the outcome of the assessment in a 
timely manner. They offered £50 compensation for this.
Unhappy with Fairmeads response, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that Fairmead had acted reasonably 
when theyd declined the claim. She also felt that the £50 compensation theyd paid for the 
late notification of the assessment was fair and reasonable.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I realise Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold their 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, theres no dispute that storm conditions had been present when Mr and Mrs W 
reported the damage to Fairmead. And theres no disagreement that a damaged and leaking 
roof is typical of that caused by a storm. 
Fairmead dont consider that the storm was the main cause of the damage. They consider 
the damage was due to wear and tear. Mr and Mrs W dont agree. So my role is to decide 
whether Fairmead declined Mr and Mrs Ws claim fairly and in line with their policy terms and 
conditions. To do that, Ive looked at the evidence available and thought carefully about 
whether its likely that the storm was the main cause of the damage.
The policy covers storm damage but, within the general exclusions section, the policy states 
it will not cover: 
Gradual deterioration/maintenance
Any loss or damage caused by wear and tear, corrosion, damp, mould, dry or wet rot or 
fungus or any other damage that happens gradually over time and costs that arise from the 
normal use, maintenance and upkeep of Your Buildings and/or its Contents
The policy also has a Flat Roof endorsement which requires the following:
The flat roof at the Home must be inspected every 5 years with any defect immediately 
rectified by a professional tradesman holding relevant liability insurance.
Failure to comply with this Endorsement may result in Your Policy being cancelled, Your 
claim rejected or not fully paid.
Fairmeads assessors report states that: the flat roof is in a poor state of repair and has 
been suffering from age related deterioration. It also states that the bathroom wall damage 
isnt covered due to: rainwater ingress over a period of time.
Mr and Mrs W havent provided any contradictory reports for me to consider, so Ive thought 
about what Fairmead reported and what Mr and Mrs W said happened during the assessors 
visit.
Mr and Mrs W said that their roof is not a typically standard roof. So they said that storm 
damage wouldnt be apparent in a typical way. They dont feel that Fairmead or the 
assessor considered this properly when looking at the damage.
Mr and Mrs W also said that theyd met all of Fairmeads conditions for insuring their flat 
roof. They said that their claim took place two years after the initial inspection and report 
theyd commissioned in order to meet those conditions. They said theyd done everything 
they were supposed to have done to ensure the roof was in good condition. They said it was 
unfair of Fairmead to decline their claim due to wear and tear. They said that: if the 
probability of wear and tear and/or age-related issues were likely within such a short period 
of time, why then did the terms and conditions of the insurance not deem it necessary to 
have an annual inspection?. They didnt agree with Fairmead that wear and tear and age-
related deterioration played any part in the roof leaking, noting that it hadnt leaked up until 
the day theyd had excessive storm rain. They also said that the leak had only occurred 
along the lowest edge of the roof where the fall of water sits. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Ws understanding of the terms and conditions of their policy 
is that theyd met them in full simply by having a roof inspection every five years. But 
Fairmeads requirement for an inspection report isnt the only requirement under the policy. Theres also the Gradual deterioration/maintenance exclusion. I consider it reasonable for an 
insurance policy to have an exclusion like this. Otherwise insurance policies would have to 
cover all normal maintenance to a home. And this would make them prohibitively expensive. 
So I dont agree with Mr and Mrs W that because theyd provided the inspection report 
required under the policy, their claim should automatically be covered. I consider it 
reasonable that the other terms and conditions of the policy must also be met. 
Regarding the internal water damage in the bathroom, Mr and Mrs W said that it had been 
fully caused by the storm. They didnt agree that the damage had occurred over a period of 
time. They noted that theyd just had a new bathroom fitted. And that they wouldnt have 
done so if thered been any signs of water ingress. Mr and Mrs W also said that Fairmead 
had been negligent in not telling them that their claim had been declined as soon as 
possible. They said this had led to a further two weeks of water damage which theyd had to 
pay for.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with our investigator that the roof photos shed seen showed that it 
was suffering from wear and tear. They explained in detail why the photos only showed 
damage to the rubberised paint on the roof, not the EPDM roof itself. They also said: the 
emergency roofers were the only people to physically inspect that roof, and it was of their 
professional opinion that the sheer weight of the storm rain that had led to the breach in the 
seal at that edge therefore pulling the rubber membrane away from the stone wall. This 
breach between the wall and the membrane was only apparent when they pushed down on 
the EPDM rubber roofing which then clearly exposed the hairline gap between the stone wall 
and the rubber flashing edge. Mr and Mrs W said that Fairmead had ignored the roofers 
professional opinion. And that theyd based their decision to decline solely on the 
photographic evidence. They said that the aerial photos that were taken couldnt show the 
hairline gap: where the adhesion of the EPDM rubber flashing edge to the wall had been 
breached under excessive weight. They said that if he assessor had made a physical 
inspection his view wouldve been different.
Fairmead said that their assessor had confirmed that the damage to the roof wasnt due to 
any one-off insurable cause. They said the assessor felt that the roof had been subjected to 
age-related deterioration and wear and tear. And that this was evidenced by the roof 
covering peeling and being split in certain areas. They also said that the internal damage to 
the bathroom had been caused by water ingress over a period of time. So they said that this 
was also not due to any one-off insurable cause.
Ive also been provided with audio recordings from the assessor. These show that the 
assessor was aware that Mr and Mrs Ws emergency roofer had told them he thought the 
recent heavy rain had caused the leak. The audio record notes details about the assessors 
inspection of the roof, including: there are a couple of areas that are gradually starting to 
fail. The assessor also considered the plausibility that the recent volume of rain had caused 
additional weight on the flat roof. But notes that the flat roof shouldve been able to deal with 
that additional weight. 
The audio recordings also cover the internal bathroom damage. They note that: Theres an 
area where the plaster is starting to blow which indicates potentially rainwaters been 
ingressing for a while. The assessor wanted the claim decision to be reviewed by Fairmead 
as he felt this wasnt a straightforward case.
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs W have said. Ive no reason to doubt what they said about 
the internal leak to their bathroom. If there had already been leaks, I expect Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve seen them and had them repaired. So I accept that the leak and internal damage 
they claimed for came as a shock to them. But that doesnt mean the damage and resulting 
leak were caused by the storm. Its just as possible that the severity of the weather conditions simply revealed damage already present as a result of wear and tear. And that is 
what Fairmeads assessor thought.
Mr and Mrs W dont agree that their roof had suffered from wear and tear because it was 
well looked after. I acknowledge that theyve said the emergency roofer felt that the weight of 
the storm rain led to the breach in the seal at that edge of the roof. Unfortunately, I dont 
have a report from that roofer. So I have to rely on the evidence I do have. So Ive looked at 
the report provided by Fairmead, which includes photos of the damage. In the absence of 
any contradictory evidence, I cant see any reason to question its accuracy. 
Mr and Mrs W said the assessor didnt even go onto the roof to inspect the damage. They 
question how his opinion can be relied upon. But the report includes photos of the flat roof. 
So the assessor obtained evidence of the condition of the roof and he used that to inform his 
expert opinion. 
I consider that there is evidence that Mr and Mrs Ws roof was suffering from wear and tear. 
Although they said that the emergency roofer felt that the weight of water had caused the 
damage, I dont have any evidence of that. And Ive seen no explanation of how a roof in 
good condition wasnt able to withstand this weight. I can also see from the January 2021 
invoice for roofing work that Mr and Mrs W have had carried out that they had the existing 
roof covering removed and replaced. So Im satisfied that wear and tear mustve been 
evident to such a degree at that point that they decided to replace the roof. Having 
considered all the evidence, I cant agree with Mr and Mrs W that the storm was the main 
cause of the damage. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Fairmead to cover the 
damage.
Mr and Mrs W said that their claim shouldve been considered under accidental damage. 
They felt the damage had happened suddenly and had been unexpected. And therefore that 
their claim met the policy definition of accidental damage. But Im satisfied that the Gradual 
deterioration/maintenance exclusion also applies to accidental damage. So Mr and Mrs Ws 
claim couldnt fairly or reasonably be covered under accidental damage given it was declined 
for wear and tear.
Mr and Mrs W said that Fairmead didnt let them know their claim had been declined for two 
weeks. They felt that the damage to their bathroom had been made worse as a direct result 
of the delay. Fairmead apologised for not informing Mr and Mrs W in a timely manner. And 
offered £50 compensation. Ive thought about the impact of the delay on the bathroom 
damage. Its the responsibility of a policyholder to take steps to mitigate the damage theyre 
claiming for. So I cant hold Fairmead responsible for further damage being caused during 
the time it took for them to tell Mr and Mrs W that their claim had been declined. And I 
consider that the level of compensation offered was reasonable given the length of the 
delay. 
In summary, Fairmead declined Mr and Mrs Ws claim because they thought the damage 
was already present and the storm simply revealed the damage. This couldnt fairly be 
covered under accidental damage as that also excludes wear and tear. Because the 
damage was already present, water ingress wouldve been happening over a period of time 
and the storm just revealed the extent of the wear and tear. As the policy excludes damage 
caused by wear and tear and that which happens gradually over time, Im satisfied that 
Fairmead fairly declined Mr and Mrs Ws claim for both the roof and the internal damage to 
the bathroom. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman