DRN-3235680
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
     
summary and background to complaint
Mr L has said Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) with a 
personal loan in 2005.
Lloyds didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because it 
said Mr L had referred the complaint to us too late.
But Lloyds has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of Mr Ls PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr L about the high level 
of commission and profit share hed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Ls complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought Lloyds payment was a fair way to resolve 
the complaint.
Mr Ls representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. Mr L 
also asked that this matter be referred to an ombudsman and considered further. So it has 
been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case Lloyds hasnt agreed.  
Mr Ls complaint was made in 2019. This is more than six years after Lloyds sold the policy 
to him  in 2005  which is the event hes complaining about here. So I need to think about 
whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mr L should reasonably have 
been aware he had cause to complain.
Lloyds says it sent Mr L a letter in February 2014 (and another in March 2014) to alert him to 
the possibility something might have gone wrong with his policy sale. Given what Mr L is 
complaining about, I think he should reasonably have been aware he had reason to 
complain if he got this letter. I say this because Mr L has said hes unhappy with the PPI 
because, amongst other things, it was just included on his loan - but Lloyds letter told Mr L, 
amongst other things, that the PPI was an optional product which you did not have to buy. 
I note also Mr L has said he had a health issue and has complained he didnt know the PPI 
excluded pre-existing health issues  and the Lloyds letter said its adviser shouldve 
gathered information on his circumstances such as any health issues that would impact on 
the suitability of the PPI policy.
Mr Ls representatives say they cant verify Lloyds letter was sent  and Ive thought about 
this. But Lloyds has sent copies of both letters from which I can see they were sent to Mr Ls 
address and I havent been told of any reason why he might not have received them (like 
problems with his post). So Im satisfied its most likely they were delivered correctly.
This means Mr L needed to make his complaint about the policy sale before the time to do 
so expired in 2017 (three years after the date of Lloyds 2014 letter). As he didnt complain 
until 2019, his complaint is out of time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances. But other than what Ive looked at 
above, Mr L hasnt given any reasons for the delay.
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mr L with his complaint about how this policy was sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the 
non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act  and, if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloyds offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused, 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr L about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr L was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr L because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipredress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Ls representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr L should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr L about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Mr L wouldnt have taken the policy had 
he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums 
he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr L in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the 
high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest, 
to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ls representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloyds failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr L paid for his PPI policy - I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. So I consider that Lloyds offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances. Lloyds 
has told us the redress was paid to Mr L in November 2019. That being so, as Lloyds has 
already paid Mr L compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do anything further.
Im grateful to Mr L for his courtesy throughout our consideration of his complaint.
my final decision
Im unable to consider Mr Ls complaint about how his policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr L an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As 
Lloyds Bank PLC has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that 
Lloyds Bank PLC should do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman