DRN-4053860
The complaint
Mr L complains that his Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) card was declined numerous times. Mr 
L feels that he has been discriminated against.  
What happened
Mr L contacted BOS following his card being declined. Mr L had attempted to make a 
payment at a local shop for £40 on four occasions with only the last one being successful.
Mr L says he waited over an hour to speak to a BOS agent and then their computer crashed 
which meant he had to wait further and subsequently had to call back.
BOS didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint regarding his card being blocked but accepted that the 
level of service provided wasnt acceptable and offered Mr L £50 compensation.  
Mr L was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls concerns and reached the conclusion that the 
transactions that Mr L made that had failed were due to being contactless and that to be 
successful the transaction required entry of Mr Ls PIN. 
They accepted this had inconvenienced Mr L but thought that it was a reasonable security 
measure BOS had in place. They thought the £50 compensation for the service Mr L had 
received when raising the issue was a fair way to compensate him.
Mr L disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
I hope that Mr L wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. So Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our 
rules allow me to do that. And the crux of Mr Ls complaint is that his card was declined 
when tried to make a purchase and that he felt discriminated against. Mr L wants to be 
compensated for this.
It might be helpful for me to say here that, as we are not the regulator, I cannot make the 
bank change its systems or processes  such as how transactions are processed or what 
security measures a bank puts in place. We offer an informal dispute resolution service and 
we have no regulatory or disciplinary role.
My role is to look at the problems Mr L has experienced and see if the BOS has done 
anything wrong or treated them unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr L back 
in the position he wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
In this case it is not disputed that Mr L had trouble using his debit card to make a £40 
purchase at a shop. The transaction failed on three out of four transactions over the space of 
around a minute. From the information Ive seen this was due to a PIN being required and 
that Mr Ls transaction was successful once he entered his PIN rather than using a 
contactless payment method.
This is outlined in the terms of conditions of Mr Ls account where it says:
we are sometimes required to ask for two separate forms of security checks before we can 
authorise a transaction. We may have to decline a transaction if you have not provided them 
(for example, certain transactions may be declined if you try to use contactless payments 
and don't enter a PIN when asked). 
These terms and conditions apply to all accounts  not just Mr Ls. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that the same security measures havent also been applied to other customers, so I 
dont think BOS has discriminated against Mr L.
And I dont think the problems Mr L has experienced is through any error on BOSs part. 
While this extra security measure may have caused some inconvenience and even 
embarrassment, I dont think the extra security measures are unfair. Indeed, while I wouldnt 
tell BOS how to run its business or what security measures it needs in place, I would expect 
it to take reasonable measures to protect its customers against theft and fraud.
I also understand Mr L has gone on and been able to use his card to make further 
transactions successfully despite the security measures.
Mr L is also unhappy at the service he received when he raised these issues with BOS. BOS 
has apologised that its service wasnt up to standard and compensated Mr L £50 which I 
think is fair in the circumstances. Things dont always go smoothly. And not every mistake 
warrants compensation. Here, I dont think the detriment Mr L has suffered warrants an 
award above that already offered. 
So overall and having considered everything I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman