DRN-2064072
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited turned down a claim under her 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss M took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Admiral for a holiday to Iceland and 
the USA. 
The first leg of her holiday was from the UK to Iceland. From Iceland Miss M was to fly to the 
USA. Unfortunately the flight from Iceland to the USA was delayed and then cancelled. This 
meant that Miss M spent extra time in Iceland and eventually arrived in the USA a day later 
than expected. 
Miss M lodged a claim under her policy. Admiral didnt pay the claim saying the policy 
doesnt cover flights delayed or cancelled by an airline when the policyholder is not at the 
point of international departure. Miss M was unhappy with this so came to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He thought Admiral should pay the 
claim as the exclusion about connecting flights was a significant restriction on cover but 
wasnt made clear in the policy. Admiral disagreed saying they thought the policy was clear, 
so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding policy terms insurers are free to add exclusions or limitations for eventualities 
they dont want to cover. This is of course fine, and a business decision that insurers are 
allowed to make. However, when a policy has an exclusion or limitation on cover which is 
significant or unusual then, under industry regulations, the insurer should clearly highlight 
this to policyholders. 
Here Admiral only want to cover missed or cancelled departures on flights when a 
policyholder first leaves the UK, or from the final airport on their return to the UK. Other 
flights during the holiday taken are not covered.
Its not unusual for consumers to plan holidays which include several flights. These might be 
connecting flights to get to a destination, or flights between different places during the 
holiday. So when taking out a travel insurance policy to cover their holiday its fair for them to 
assume that all the flights would be covered. If an insurer doesnt want to cover all of the 
flights, which is of course their right, Id expect to see this exclusion made clear in the policy 
and other documentation such as key facts, policy summary and /or the Insurance Product 
Information Document. 
Miss M took out a single trip policy for her holiday. The policy schedule shows the 
destination as both Iceland and the USA. 
The insurance product information document Miss M was provided with says You will be 
covered to travel to and from the country or countries you have selected, as shown on your 
policy schedule.
From this I think Miss M had a very reasonable expectation that her holiday to both 
countries, and flights between them, would be covered under the policy. If Admiral didnt 
want to cover parts of the holiday they shouldve made this clear as it is a significant 
limitation on cover. If Admiral had done this, then it would have been open to Miss M to find 
alternative cover which did provide benefits for connecting flights.
Looking at the documentation I dont think its clear enough to alert Miss M that her claim 
wont be covered for anything other than her first flight out of the UK and her last flight back 
to the UK.
There is no mention of the limitation on either the policy schedule or the insurance product 
information document. In fact, the schedule specifically mentions cover for both Iceland and 
the USA.
In order to find the detail about delayed departures Miss M would have to check page 44 of 
the policy booklet in a section titled Delayed International Departure. Even then I dont think 
its as clear as it could be.
Miss M was flying internationally from Iceland to the USA and there was a delay in 
departure. With both of those countries being specified on the policy I think, quite 
reasonably, Miss M would expect to be covered.
Admiral says this section of the policy should be read in conjunction with the definitions on 
page 8 of the policy booklet. There Point of International Departure is defined as the airport 
from which you leave the UK, or the final airport you leave on your return to the UK. 
The section of the policy about Delayed International Departure doesnt quote the definition 
of Point of International Departure. What it says is that cover is provided up to the policy 
limits if your trip is delayed. Trip is defined on page 8 of the policy as a journey that begins 
and ends at your home. Miss M was on a trip and so would reasonably expect to be 
covered. 
Not covering connecting flights is a significant restriction and limitation on cover so it 
shouldve been sufficiently highlighted and brought to Miss Ms attention. Because Im not 
persuaded this happened Miss M wasnt able to make an informed choice about whether the 
cover was right for her. 
The fair and reasonable outcome is for Admiral to deal with Miss Ms claim subject to the 
other policy terms.
Putting things right
Admiral should consider this claim up to the policy limits for delayed departures. They should 
add 8% interest to any settlement from the date the claim was declined until payment is 
made.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Admiral Insurance Company Limited must take the actions explained above to put things 
right for Miss M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2020. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman