DRN-3818270
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund cash machine withdrawals that 
he says he didnt make or otherwise agree to.
What happened
In the early hours of the morning, Mr K was smoking a cigarette near a central London 
landmark. He explains that he began talking with two gentlemen who were near him at the 
time. Mr K recalls that the conversation was friendly and lasted around 20 to 30 minutes. 
Mr K says one of the gentlemen suggested exchanging numbers so they could keep in 
touch.
Mr K explains that he did not wish to appear rude, so agreed and handed over his mobile 
phone for the gentleman to enter his contact details. Mr K says that his phone was returned 
to him less than 30 seconds later, then they all went their own separate ways not long after.
Just over an hour later, Mr K noticed his phone was not connected to its network. He 
discovered that the SIM card was missing and contacted his phone provider from his wifes 
phone. He explains that his Barclays mobile banking app had disappeared from his phone. 
In addition, his debit card was missing.
Between 03:33am and 03:44am, £1,930 was withdrawn from Mr Ks account by 11 cash 
machine withdrawals. The cash machines used were outside a Barclays branch in East 
London.
Mr K reported it to Barclays and the Police. Barclays temporarily refunded Mr K whilst it 
investigated. But it then declined the claim. It concluded Mr K must have divulged his PIN 
and that hed behaved carelessly by handing over his phone to a third party.
Mr K complained. In its final response letter, Barclays says it hadnt found any evidence to 
suggest the payment was made by a third party and couldnt find any evidence of fraud.
Unhappy with the banks position, Mr K referred the complaint to us. He felt there was a 
potential weakness in Barclays mobile banking app. He suggested that it could have been 
possible for someone that had both his debit card and his SIM card to re-register his mobile 
banking and then access his PIN from inside the mobile banking app.
Our Investigator looked into the matter but did not recommend that it should be upheld. He 
had doubts about Mr Ks recollection of the events and felt, on balance, that he had 
authorised the transactions because he couldnt see how anyone else could have known his 
PIN.
Mr K disagreed. He said hed done some research and thought it was possible for someone 
to generate a mobile banking access code without using a cash machine or knowing the 
PIN. He said that he didnt accept that a cash machine had been involved when installing his 
mobile banking app on a new device and explained hed never disclosed his PIN to anyone 
else. Mr K suggested that the fraudsters had set up his mobile banking on a new device, 
received a one-time passcode by using his stolen SIM card in another device and then were 
able to retrieve his PIN from inside the app.
Mr K said his phone was always in his immediate vicinity, it was only in someone elses 
hands for a very brief period and he did not appreciate that these actions could lead to a 
fraudster gaining control of his bank account and stealing a large amount of money from 
him.
Mr K made a subject access request to Barclays as he was concerned the information the 
bank was providing to us was not credible and was being presented in a deliberately vague 
and misleading way. Mr K also asked our Investigator to share the material evidence that 
hed relied upon.
Once Mr K had reviewed the information, he was concerned that there had been no mention 
of a card transaction for £20 that took place at 03:32, which is just before the disputed cash 
machine withdrawals started. The last time Mr K had used his card was at 01:27.
As no agreement had been reached, the complaint was prepared for a decision.
My further investigation
When the complaint was referred to me, I contacted Mr K and asked him if he had any 
further comments as hed recently been provided with evidence showing the involvement of 
a cash machine, suggesting that things could not have happened as hed thought.
Mr K asked me to provide a list of all of the transactions and activities that happened across 
the disputed time window. I provided this information to Mr K, as well as confirming that the 
£20 card transaction was a contactless payment that didnt require PIN verification. 
I suggested that it was potentially a taxi because the merchant coding was given as taxi 
cabs/limousines. I suggested this made sense in the context of the complaint because it was 
clear that Mr Ks card had somehow moved from when he last used it in Central London to 
East London at a time in the morning when there was not going to be much in the way of 
public transport.
Mr K explained he had replayed the events in his mind and the gentleman that had his 
phone told him that it had locked itself. Mr K said he was now wondering whether this was 
staged to get him to use Touch ID to unlock his mobile banking app rather than his phone. 
He suggested that if his bank card had been stolen first, then the gentlemen could have 
used his card information to do an in-app PIN reveal.
I pointed out to Mr K that a balance enquiry at 03:00 was of particular interest to me as it 
meant that Mr Ks card was out of his possession at this time and it suggested that whoever 
undertook that action had the PIN number. Crucially, this happened before any attempt to 
register mobile banking on a new device. Mr K confirmed he did not recognise this
action and had no need to check his balance.
I explained the technical evidence shows the disputed cash machine withdrawals were all 
made using Mr Ks physical card and PIN, so the attempt to register mobile banking did not 
lead to any loss from his account.
Mr K said it was unclear why someone set up the mobile banking app on another device if 
the technical evidence shows it seems to have been unused. Mr K explained he felt 
perplexed by the situation and suggested it was akin to a member of the public being asked 
to explain a magic trick. He said the idea that he gave out his PIN was not acceptable and not what happened.
I asked Mr K questions about the interaction with the men that befriended him, such as 
whether he was sitting or standing, where his card was kept and how he thinks someone 
was able to take it from him without him noticing. I pointed out that to remove the SIM card 
from the phone required the use of a SIM ejection tool. I asked Mr K how someone was able 
to do this whilst he was there.
I also told Mr K that in the banks file, there was a note suggesting that when he first reported 
what happened, he told the bank that he was drunk. I asked Mr K if he agreed with that or 
not and explained that it was important for me to understand all the surrounding 
circumstances that could be relevant.
Mr K replied and outlined details of location data from his mobile phone. He speculated there 
must have been another individual involved because he was chatting with the two gentlemen 
until at least 3.25am, which did not leave enough time for those individuals to travel to East 
London to use a cash machine at 3.32am.
Mr K said hed shared a bottle of wine with his wife earlier in the evening, but he would not 
describe himself as drunk and did not consider his judgment to be significantly impaired. He 
said his bank card was loose in his back pocket and he was not sure how it was taken from 
him. He said it might have been possible for someone to lift it out of his pocket without him 
physically detecting it, especially with random collisions occurring all the time. He speculated 
that someone could have stood on a lower step behind him whilst he was facing the other 
way which would have given closer access to his back pocket. 
Mr K confirmed to me that his phone did have a tray that needed to be popped open with a 
pin to access the SIM card. He explained that he had a rubber case on his phone so the 
gentleman must have peeled off the case at the corner to access the SIM tray. He explained 
that whilst one of the gentlemen had his phone to enter the contact details, the other 
gentlemen requested a cigarette, which Mr K gave and lit for him whilst it was in his mouth. 
Mr K thought, with hindsight, that this was done to distract him. Mr K said he now thought 
hed unwittingly unlocked his mobile banking app which allowed the gentleman to do an in-
app PIN reveal.
I asked Barclays to provide a copy of the call recording when Mr K reported what had 
happened from his wifes phone. I also asked Barclays to provide technical evidence about 
the balance enquiry made at 03:00. It did so, and those records show that the PIN was 
entered correctly the first time and had not been changed.
I looked carefully at the banks records for when Mr Ks mobile and online banking had been 
accessed. I contacted the bank and queried my reading of this data as showing that the first 
time Mr Ks mobile banking was accessed was at 03:25, which is about 25 minutes after 
Mr Ks card and PIN were used to make the balance enquiry. The bank agreed this is what
the data shows. The banks evidence showed no log ins were made using Mr Ks genuine 
phone on 13 June 2021. This means that one of the gentlemen could not have tricked Mr K 
into unwittingly using Touch ID to log into his mobile banking under the guise of unlocking 
the handset.
The bank added it would not have been possible for the PIN to have been shoulder surfed, 
so it must have been known to the person that carried out the balance enquiry at 03:00.
I then issued a provisional decision to bring together the further information Id found out. Ive 
copied my findings below:Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have summarised the matter in my own words and in less detail than has been provided.
No discourtesy is intended by this as it enables me to focus on the key issues of this
complaint and its surrounding investigation. From what Ive seen so far, I dont think Barclays
treated Mr K unfairly by declining his claim. I know this is not the news Mr K is hoping for, so
I will explain why.
In cases where payments are in dispute, there are some general principles that apply. The
Payment Services Regulations primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other circumstances do apply  specifically
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent or what the customer may
have consented to. So, when I look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting
someones fraud complaint, one of the things I consider is whether the customer made the
transactions themselves or allowed them to be made. If they did, then it generally wouldnt
be fair to ask the bank to refund them.
Im satisfied from the banks technical reports that the disputed transactions were made with
Mr Ks genuine card and his PIN. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on
its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr K consented to the transactions
being made or if not whether he did something he shouldnt do under the terms and
conditions for the account.
One of the difficulties in this case is its not very clear exactly what happened or how it
happened. Mr K has changed his account of the key events, which are significant details
that go to the very heart of this complaint. In situations where evidence is missing,
incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, I have to make my decision on balance, forming a
conclusion on what I think is more likely than not in light of the evidence that I do have.
Mr K has maintained that he did not agree to these transactions. Hes said he did not make
them and has referred to location data from his mobile phone pinpointing him in a different
place to the cash machines. I have no reason to doubt this. Mr Ks account had a large
balance so theres no apparent reason why he would stage a fraud. In addition, I dont think
Mr K would have reported this matter to the Police if any potential investigation would turn up
evidence that placed him at the scene, although I should be clear at this stage that Ive not
currently seen the Police report and dont know exactly what Mr K reported at the time.
Nonetheless, I am prepared to accept that Mr K has not benefitted from these transactions
and has suffered a loss. Ive looked at the way the card was used, and it does have the
hallmarks of how a stolen card may be used. But this, in and of itself, is not a reason for
Barclays to refund him.
The banks technical evidence shows that the disputed transactions were made using
payment tools issued to Mr K. I can say with some confidence that Mr Ks genuine card was
used to withdraw the cash and make the contactless payment and his PIN was entered
correctly first time at key points, as Ive outlined in my further investigation detailed above.
But from what Mr K has said to both us and the bank, theres no clear explanation for how
the card and PIN could have been obtained by unauthorised third parties.
In the call recording when Mr K first reported the fraud, when the bank asked Mr K about his
card he said: I think someone took it out of my wallet without me realising
The banks employee continues: Youve also mentioned about your SIM card as well, haveyou got your phone?
Mr K replies: Ive got my phone but err I think someone must have taken my SIM card out of
my phone.
Barclays: Oh right, okay.
Mr K: Bit unusual right?
Barclays: Theyve taken the SIM card out of your phone but err did you, youve still got your
phone?
Mr K: Ive got my phone back, its only when Ive come home that Ive realised theres no
SIM.
Later in the call, the bank asks: Have you, have you still got your wallet?
Mr K replies: Yes, Ive got my wallet. Erm, and I think everything else is in it. He then goes
on to say: Its all very mysterious but Ive heard that theres been a transaction and definitely
my SIM card is gone and my wallet is gone, I was a bit drunk, so I wasnt paying careful
attention but now I look back on it, it kind of makes sense and I think thats whats
happened.
Mr K clearly says in the call that hed got his phone back. I find this an odd turn of phrase for
someone to use if they had shared their phone with a third party for the purposes of the third
party putting in contact details as that type of scenario doesnt obviously imply that the
phone had been gone. In addition, Mr K is very clear that his card was kept in a wallet. He is
less clear about whether he still had the wallet as he tells the bank conflicting things on this
point. The loss or theft of a wallet isnt an unusual thing to happen to someone so I cant see
why Mr K would not be open about saying if something similar had happened to him. I dont
think it would be appropriate to say that Mr K gave his consent to any transactions that
happened during a time that his payment tools were in the hands of a third party without his
knowledge or agreement. But even if Mr K didnt authorise the transactions, I would still need
to think about if hed been grossly negligent or failed with intent to keep his personalised
security details secure.
It's possible that Mr K was more intoxicated at the time than what hes said to me. Its also
possible that someone targeted Mr K whilst he was in this potentially more exposed and
vulnerable situation. But his inconsistent testimony makes it difficult to understand what
actually happened that night.
All I do know is that to make these transactions, someone needed to obtain the card from
Mr Ks person and they needed his PIN. I cant place any weight on what Mr K has said
about how that could have happened. It doesnt seem plausible that a random third party
would have known that Mr K had a card loose in his back pocket. It also doesnt seem likely
that this is what happened given what Mr K told the bank about the card being kept in a
wallet, which is I feel more likely given that conversation took place a few hours after the loss
was incurred. I also cant see how a third party could have removed Mr Ks phone from its
case and then removed the SIM card from his device without him having at least some
awareness in his peripheral vision that something more than entering a phone number was
happening.
Even if a third party had been able to obtain Mr Ks card, be it in the circumstances that Mr K
described to me or by some other way, it would have been of limited use by itself. It could
have potentially been used to make a small number of contactless payments, but thoseoptions would have likely been fairly minimal at that time in the morning, even taking into
account the central London location.
I also have to consider how the PIN was obtained. At the moment, I dont have any plausible
explanation as to how this happened. The PIN was entered correctly the first time. I think its
highly unlikely that someone would have been able to guess Mr Ks PIN correctly given
theres 10,000 possible combinations for what that PIN could be. There isnt an obvious point
of compromise in any of the circumstances that Mr K has described. My further investigation
established that Mr Ks PIN could not have been shared through his mobile banking app,
either on his own device or on the other device. From what I currently have to consider, the
only way the PIN could have been known was if Mr K had shared it or if it was kept with the
card. Either way, Barclays is entitled to hold Mr K liable for any transactions that happened
as a result under the relevant regulations and the terms and conditions of his account.
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr K. This is not an easy message for me to give and I am
mindful that it will not be an easy message for him to receive, but it is where the evidence
that is currently available has led me.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Barclays responded and said it had nothing further to add and would await the final decision 
in due course.
Mr K was disappointed and disheartened by my decision. He said hes been the victim of an 
expertly executed deception and has put a lot of time into trying to fight for justice on this 
matter. He said he was certain beyond any doubt that hed never disclosed his PIN to these 
individuals and that it was not written down or obtainable in any way. He explained he was 
shocked when Barclays had told him they had used his PIN which is why he felt it was left to 
him to try to develop a theory to explain how they did it. He said that he no longer believed 
that generating an activation code within the banking app was how it happened. 
Mr K said that he thought the second time his phone was unlocked was of pivotal importance 
and has the potential to explain how the criminals did it. He thought it was strange that the 
gentleman covered the upper half of his screen. He suggested that Barclays was not being 
entirely transparent and was not divulging the data that supports this occurring to avoid 
paying the claim. 
Mr K explained that his wallet had been at home the whole time and that his bank card had 
been loose in his pocket as this was all he had taken with him when hed popped out. He 
disagreed with my opinion that it was not feasible for someone to remove a SIM card without 
Mr K noticing and suggested it was not impossible for a skilled criminal to do. He thought the 
timing at which things happened suggested that one other individual in addition to the two 
gentlemen he spoke with must have been involved.
Mr K asked if he could hear the recording of the conversation Id cited and asked if Barclays 
would refund the £20 contactless transaction since it did not require his PIN but only the theft 
of the card.
I contacted Barclays and highlighted the £20 transaction Mr K had referred to. Barclays said 
that the transaction was already considered as part of its fraud investigation. I informed Mr K 
that Barclays did not wish to refund the transaction. I explained that I had thought about 
whether Barclays is obligated to refund the transaction under the relevant rules and pointed 
out that in any event the regulations say that a bank can hold a customer liable for the first 
£35 of any losses incurred as a result of payment transactions made using a lost or stolen 
payment card. After Mr K had listened to the call recording, he added further comments. He said that at no 
point did he believe hed lost his phone and had probably used the phrase I got my phone 
back as a result of requestioning everything that had gone on that night and doubting 
everything and everyone. He said apart from the phone being in the suspects possession 
for no longer than a minute, there was no other reason for him to say he got his phone back 
and it does not allude to any other feature or event that night. 
Mr K said he did not believe that alcohol played any role in causing him to fall for this 
deception as he was completely in control and largely sober. He suggested his statement 
I was a bit drunk was not accurate. 
Mr K confirmed his earlier comments that hed mistakenly thought his card had been stolen 
from his wallet at first and that it was only later that he realised hed gone out with just his 
card.
Mr K highlighted the call recording mentioned a rejected transaction for Transport for London 
bike hire, which at the time the events happened would have been the cost of hiring three 
bikes. He suggested that five people may have been involved in committing this crime as 
two suspects were very likely still with him at the landmark, placing one person at the cash 
machine to undertake the balance enquiry and potentially two others in East London. He 
said the balance enquiry at 03:00:49 could not have been made by either of the two 
gentlemen that he was speaking to so there must have been more people involved. Mr K 
concluded by saying he strongly believed something odd happened when he was prompted 
to unlock his phone a second time and the gentleman concealed the screen. He suggests 
this is the most likely way his PIN was obtained, and it was deeply frustrating that I was 
giving precedence to Barclays electronic data.
As both parties have now had the opportunity to consider my provisional decision and 
respond, I will now reach my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Mr K has tried to be as helpful as he can in explaining what he thinks could have 
happened, the wider circumstances of this complaint are still far from clear. It does not seem 
plausible to me that he was essentially targeted in the ways that he has suggested. I believe 
there must be more to this, notwithstanding what Mr K has said about there being no other 
significant feature or event that night. 
There is no getting away from that to be able to undertake the balance enquiry and make the 
cash machine withdrawals required knowledge of Mr Ks PIN. It wasnt guaranteed that even 
a gang working together could obtain the PIN. Neither an opportunistic thief nor a gang 
targeting Mr K would have known for sure that he was going to stop at the landmark to 
smoke a cigarette to present the opportunity for them to gain access to his phone. It was just 
as likely Mr K was walking on his way somewhere given the location and the time of day. To 
add to this, I still think it would have been very bold for someone to remove Mr Ks phone 
from its case and then proceed to remove the SIM card using an extraction tool whilst stood 
directly next to him. Im not persuaded that Mr K would have let a stranger move away from 
him whilst they had his phone to be able to do this without challenge, or that Mr K would 
have turned away to such an extent that hed got no view of his device in his peripheral 
vision, especially as hes said he was largely sober. Mr K has most recently suggested that the PIN must have been disclosed when the 
gentleman prompted him to unlock his phone and concealed the upper half of the screen. 
But the PIN was known to whoever made the balance enquiry at the cash machine at 
03:00:49, so this doesnt seem most likely given the timings Mr K has recalled.
Mr K has suggested Barclays is withholding information to avoid paying the claim. I do not 
consider this to be the case and I am mindful that the bank refunded the claim initially 
pending its investigation. Barclays has provided mobile banking access logs and there is no 
TouchID log in recorded for 13 June 2021 at all. If Mr K had been unwittingly duped into 
logging into his mobile banking app instead of just unlocking his device, the banks records 
would reflect that log in. 
Having considered matters afresh, I remain of the position that there are too many steps 
required in Mr Ks version of events to confidently explain how someone essentially targeted 
him and his inconsistent testimony makes it difficult to understand what actually happened 
that night. 
My role is to ultimately decide whether Barclays has treated Mr K fairly by holding him 
responsible for the transactions that took place. But I must make my decision based on all of 
the evidence thats been provided. Mr K is aware that the banks technical records do not 
support the theory that the PIN was disclosed through the mobile banking app and Mr K has 
been very clear that his PIN was not recorded or stored in any way. From what I have to 
consider, I cant see how these transactions could have possibly happened without Mr Ks 
involvement without stronger evidence to the contrary. Although Ive thought carefully about 
everything Mr K has described, there remains no clear opportunity for someone else to have 
obtained his PIN or for him to have unwittingly disclosed it. 
I dont doubt that something happened to Mr K that night and I can understand why he feels 
strongly about it. Hes ended up out of pocket and this is a lot of money for anyone to lose. 
But for the reasons Ive explained both here and in my provisional decision that I reproduced 
above, I still dont believe Barclays has acted unfairly in rejecting his claim for a refund. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman