DRN-4045516
The complaint
Mrs C complained that her claim for a stolen mobility scooter was unfairly declined by China 
Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd (CTI) under her scooter insurance. Mrs C was represented 
during the claim, but for ease and simplicity, Ill only refer to Mrs C.
What happened
Mrs Cs mobility scooter was stolen whilst attending a social event. The police recovered the 
scooter, but it was badly damaged so was no longer safe to drive and was uneconomic to 
repair. Mrs C made a claim to CTI for the theft of her scooter.
CTI decided to decline the claim. It said the circumstances of the theft were excluded by the 
policy. It said: As the product was left for over an hour since last driven and not chained, 
this would fall within the policy exclusion. 
Mrs C doesnt think this was fair as she said she didnt receive all the policy documentation 
and what she did receive was unclear. As she had removed the key from the scooter, she 
thought her claim should be settled. A goodwill gesture of £250 was paid.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought the policy documentation was 
ambiguous and open to different interpretations. He didnt think the exclusion clause that CTI 
relied on was relevant in the circumstances of the claim. CTI disagreed, so the case has 
been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the policy. The policy provides insurance for scooters and powerchairs. Id 
normally expect a policy to be clearly set out, firstly highlighting what perils are covered by 
the policy, followed by any specific or general exclusions to the policy.
The policy is confusing to read, but I can see it intends to cover accidental damage and 
personal liability. The policy itself isnt clear that it covers theft. Under accidental damage, 
the policy states in the event of loss or damage as a result of a sudden, unexpected and 
accidental cause to the property [e.g., scooter]. There is no specific mention of theft. 
However, CTI declined the claim not because the policy didnt cover theft, but because of an 
exclusion clause.
So, Ive looked at the exclusion clause. It excludes loss of or damage to property, left for 
more than one hour since it was last driven by you, unless it is secured to an immoveable 
object by a metal padlock and chain. Therefore, the policy suggests to me the policy covers 
accidental damage, provided the scooter is secured when left unattended. However, the 
policy itself it quiet on the theft peril. I would normally expect a policy to show separately 
perils for theft and accidental damage. So, I find this policy and claim confusing, as CTI 
hasnt declined the claim because theft isnt covered. It has declined it due to an exclusion 
relating to accidental damage. Therefore, my assumption is that CTI believe theft is covered 
by the policy.
CTI has told us its customers normally receive a welcome pack which includes several 
documents, such as the policy schedule, policy and product information (IPID). Mrs C has 
explained to our service that she never received the product information document. CTI said 
its normally sent out.
Anyway, I have read the product documentation to see if this provides any further 
information. The product information is much clearer than the policy. It lists what is insured, 
including loss or damage as a consequence of any sudden, unexpected and accidental 
cause, including fire, theft, storm and flood. I think there is a lack of consistency between 
the policy documentation and the product information. The documents are written very 
differently and can be interpreted differently.
The product documentation also says whats not covered. It specifically lists an exclusion 
under loss or damage whilst [the scooter is] unattended and a separate exclusion clause 
specifically for theft which reads whilst unattended, unless the starter key has been 
removed. CTI declined the claim using the policy terms. However, I think the product 
information could be interpreted that theft is covered provided the starter key has been 
removed.
Mrs M said she had removed the starter key and I havent seen any evidence to show that 
she didnt. Therefore, I dont think in either the policy documents or the product information, 
its clear whats included in the insurance cover and what isnt. Certainly, I would expect the 
policy documentation to stand up on its own and be clear to the reader.
Ive also considered Mrs Ms vulnerable circumstances. I think in Mrs Ms circumstances its 
likely for it to be harder for her to understand complex documents than the average person. I 
think there is too much ambiguity in the policy document, which is the primary contract for 
which defines the insurance provided. I find the product information lacks consistency with 
this key policy document. Therefore, I dont think its unreasonable Mrs M didnt really 
understand the expectations of her under the cover.
Therefore, in these circumstances, I think CTI should honour Mrs Cs claim for the stolen 
scooter in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. As I dont think it was 
reasonable to apply the exclusion clause when the policy was unclear. I dont think CTI were 
fair to decline the claim. I dont think the supporting policy documents provided a sound 
basis for it to decline the claim. Therefore, I uphold this complaint.
Its not clear what the £250 compensation was paid for. However, considering whats 
happened in the delay to this claim due to it been unfairly declined, I think £250 is a sensible 
level of compensation overall to reflect whats happened. So, I wont be awarding any further 
amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co 
Ltd to:
Settle Mrs Cs claim for the stolen scooter in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Pay the £250 compensation originally offered (if it hasnt already).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman