DRN-3757384
The complaint
Mrs L and a company that Ill refer to as E are trustees of a trust which Ill refer to as L. The 
trustees have complained that AXA Insurance Plc unfairly reduced the settlement on Ls 
commercial property insurance claim due to the property being underinsured.
Mr L has helped to bring this complaint. For ease of reading, I will refer to Mrs L throughout 
this decision.
What happened
L held a policy with AXA for a property which it owns and rents out as offices. In August
2020 the property was damaged by a flood, so L claimed on its policy.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to look into the claim. The loss adjuster thought Mrs L had
provided a lower reinstatement value for the property than she should have done when
buying the insurance for L. The loss adjuster said Mrs L had declared the reinstatement cost 
as £692,641 when he estimated it to be £997,000.
The loss adjuster said the policy included an average clause which meant that if the property
was underinsured any claim could be reduced accordingly. This meant that the loss adjuster
thought Ls claim of £19,616 should be reduced to around £15,000. As Mrs L disputed
the reinstatement cost suggested by the loss adjuster, AXA appointed a valuation surveyor 
to assess Ls property. This surveyor said that the reinstatement cost was £1,117,700 and 
this meant that the property was underinsured by more than the loss adjuster had 
suggested. As a result, AXA said that Ls property was only insured for 61% of what it should 
have been insured for and reduced the amount it paid to settle the claim to £11,270.84, after 
deducting the excess.
Mrs L didnt think this was fair and brought a complaint to our service. She said that she had
told AXA that the property was made of stone so it should have taken that into account when
calculating the risk. Mrs L said she had initially based the valuation on a surveyors report
produced when she bought the property in 2014. This estimated the reinstatement cost to be
£598,000. Mrs L said that AXA had increased the amount insured each year for inflation and
She thought this would be adequate. Mrs L also didnt think the reinstatement costs given by
AXAs experts were realistic. Mrs L provided a report from a different surveyor, dated
October 2021, who said that the reinstatement cost was £475,000. In addition, Mrs L said
that the loss adjuster had agreed the repair costs and she had acted on this. Mrs L said she
could have reduced costs if she had known they wouldnt be agreed.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ls complaint and recommended it be upheld. He thought
that Mrs L had made AXA aware that the property was made of stone and made a fair
presentation of the risk when buying the policy. Therefore, he thought AXA should pay Ls 
claim without making any adjustment for the average clause, as well as paying a further
£200 for the inconvenience caused.
AXA didnt agree. It said it wasnt relevant whether it knew that the property was built of
stone, as it was still for Mrs L to provide an accurate reinstatement estimation. It remained
persuaded by its experts estimations but said it would offer a settlement of £13,722.34
which was based on the average of its two experts reports. AXA also said that it hadnt
agreed to the repairs going ahead and had made it clear there could be an issue with
underinsurance.
As AXA didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 September 2022 explaining why I 
intended to uphold it. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has said that Mrs L was underinsured, as the reinstatement value of the property
covered in the policy was significantly less than the true reinstatement cost. Because of this,
its said it will apply the average clause in the policy and offer a proportionate settlement.
AXA has said that Mrs L is underinsured based on information she provided when renewing
the policy in 2019. So thats what Im going to consider, and in doing so will take account of
the relevant law as well as what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Mrs Ls
policy is a commercial one so the law that applies here is the Insurance Act 2015 (the Act).
When considering a complaint where underinsurance is alleged, before considering the
policy terms, I must first consider the Act. Under the Act a commercial customer has a duty
to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. In order to fulfil a fair presentation of
risk, the Act says a commercial policyholder must disclose everything they know, or ought to
know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk
and on what terms. If it is found that they didnt fulfil this duty then in order to say there has
been a qualifying breach, the insurer needs to show that it would have either not offered the
policy at all, or offered it on different terms.
So, Ive first considered whether Mrs L made a fair presentation of the risk. Im going to
focus my decision on the renewal which took place in November 2019, as this is the policy
which was in force at the time of the claim. To do this, Ive considered the information that
AXA sent to Mrs L before the policy renewed.
The Schedule states that the property reinstatement value is £692,641. There is information
provided next to this value which states that this should be the cost of reinstating the
property as new from the start of each period of insurance and include fees associated with
the building. I think AXA provided clear information here about the costs it wanted to know
about so Mrs L should have been reasonably clear about what she was being asked.
The renewal letter let Mrs L know that the sums insured had been increased to reflect
inflation. Although the letter goes on to say that if the sums insured arent correct, the
policyholder should let AXA know as this could result in them being underinsured, I dont
think the letter made it clear to Mrs L that any increase for inflation might not be enough to
ensure that her property was properly insured. I understand that Mrs L estimated the
reinstatement cost based on the surveyors report she received when buying the property.
The surveyor is RICS registered and I havent seen anything to indicate that this value
wasnt appropriate at that time. I have taken into account that this report was from 2014, but
given that the sums insured on the policy are increased for inflation and it wasnt clear that
this wouldnt be sufficient, I think it was reasonable for Mrs L to think that the sum insured
remained appropriate and for her to think shed provided a reasonable estimate based on
what was known at the time. Also, if AXA required a new estimate to be completed eachyear it could have specified this.
I appreciate that Mrs L could have obtained an updated report to ascertain the reinstatement
value of her property. But if shed done so, I think it would likely have been along the same
lines as the one she obtained in 2021 which would have confirmed her belief that the amount
shed declared was appropriate.
Ive noted Mrs Ls point that she declared to AXA that the property was built of stone. While
thats not the issue in dispute here, in my view it supports that Mrs L was trying to ensure
that AXA had all the information it needed to decide on which terms it wanted to insure the
risk.
I have also considered Mrs Ls point that her surveyors report is more accurate and
therefore she declared the correct reinstatement cost. I think this is unlikely given that the
reinstatement value provided in the report is less than when she bought the property and I
think its unlikely that the reinstatement cost would have decreased. Also, her surveyor is out
of line with the loss adjuster and valuer and I think the two with more similar costings are
more likely to be accurate.
However, I dont think I need to make a finding on this because Im considering what Mrs L
knew, or ought to know, at the time she renewed her policy. And when taking everything into
consideration I think Mrs L made a fair presentation of the risk. I think she told AXA
everything she knew, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer in
deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms. As Im satisfied that Mrs L made a fair
presentation of the risk, AXA doesnt have any remedies to reduce the value of the claim
under the Act.
Contracting out from the Insurance Act
In this case AXA instead relied on the average clause in the policy and offered to settle the
claim at 61% of its value. It is quite normal for a policy to include an average clause.
However Section 17 of the Act lays out the requirements for insurers to present this clearly.
It states as follows:
The transparency requirements
(1) In this section, the disadvantageous term means such a term as is 
mentioned in section 16(2).
(2) The insurer must take sufficient steps to draw the disadvantageous term to 
the insureds attention before the contract is entered into or the variation agreed.
(3) The disadvantageous term must be clear and unambiguous as to its effect.
16(2) as referred above states:
16 (2)A term of a non-consumer insurance contract, or of any other contract, 
which would put the insured in a worse position as respects any of the other 
matters provided for in Part 2, 3 or 4 of this Act than the insured would be in by 
virtue of the provisions of those Parts (so far as relating to non-consumer 
insurance contracts) is to that extent of no effect, unless the requirements of 
section 17 have been satisfied in relation to the term.)
AXA hasnt indicated that it thinks it has contracted out of the Act. And when considering the
circumstances of Mrs Ls claim, I think the average clause is disadvantageous because it put
her in a worse position than she would have been in under the Act. I say that because by
applying the average clause AXA would only have to pay 61% of Mrs Ls claim compared tothe full amount if it applied Part 2 of the Act.
Ive looked at the policy, but I dont think AXA did enough to meet the requirements for
contracting out as laid out in the Act. As it has provided no evidence to show that it has
specifically highlighted its departure from the law and the possible disadvantage for the
customer.
So as Im not satisfied AXA has done enough to fulfil the requirements of the Act in relation
to contracting out, I dont think its reasonable for it to rely on the average clause in the policy
to settle this claim. For this reason I intend to require AXA to settle the claim in line with the
Act, rather than the average clause.
As I think Mrs L made a fair presentation of the risk I dont think it would be fair and
reasonable for AXA to make any deduction to the settlement. Therefore, I intend to require
AXA to pay Ls claim without making any deduction for underinsurance. I understand this
means that AXA should pay L an additional £8,045.16.
As the claim wasnt settled in full when it should have been L has been without money it
should have had. I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that AXA should have paid L the
additional amount when it paid the initial £11,270.84. So I think its fair and reasonable for
AXA to add interest to the £8,045.16 at 8% simple from the date it paid the rest of the claim
until the date it makes payment.
Im not going to comment on Mrs Ls point about being told that repairs could go ahead
because even if I was to uphold that point it wouldnt make a difference to the outcome of the
complaint.
I do, however, think that not having her claim paid in full has caused L inconvenience as it
has had to pay an additional £8,000 for repairs that it thought it was insured for. I think £200
is a fair and reasonable amount for AXA to pay to L to compensate for this.
Mrs L said she was satisfied with the decision and didnt provide any further comments. 
AXA didnt agree. It said that, having obtained several legal opinions, it didnt think my 
interpretation on the legal position was correct. AXA didnt think that the Act precluded it 
from applying the average clause, or that its necessary for an insurer to follow the 
contracting out provisions of the Act. AXA said the sum insured is not a material fact as 
cover will usually be provided. AXA said it can apply the average clause where a property is 
underinsured and that the Act doesnt override contract law. 
Before reaching a final decision, I let both parties know that even if I am wrong about the 
legal position then I still think this is a fair and reasonable way to consider this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.  
Section 3 (3) of the Act says that a fair presentation of the risk is one:
(a)which makes the disclosure required by subsection (4),
(b)which makes that disclosure in a manner which would be reasonably clear and 
accessible to a prudent insurer, and(c)in which every material representation as to a matter of fact is substantially 
correct, and every material representation as to a matter of expectation or belief 
is made in good faith.
Subsection (4) says that the disclosure required is:
(a)disclosure of every material circumstance which the insured knows or ought 
to know, or
(b)failing that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a 
prudent insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries for the purpose 
of revealing those material circumstances
Section 7 of the Act (3) says that: 
A circumstance or representation is material if it would influence the judgement 
of a prudent insurer in determining whether to take the risk and, if so, on what 
terms.
Ive considered AXAs point that it doesnt think the sum insured is a material fact and 
therefore the Act doesnt apply. As set out above, the Act refers to both facts and 
expectations or beliefs. I consider an expectation or belief is something that isnt a fact 
and thats supported by the Act differentiating between matters of fact and matters of 
expectation or belief. I think the estimated reinstatement cost is a matter of expectation 
or belief as its difficult to know exactly what it would cost. So I think the Act applies to  
Mrs Ls declaration of the estimated reinstatement cost of the property. 
AXA says it will usually enter into the policy irrespective of the reinstatement cost, but I 
think that in some cases the sum insured, which is meant to represent the cost of 
rebuilding a property, might impact whether an insurer decides to offer the policy or not. 
I also note that AXA said it will usually enter in the contract, it does not say that it 
always will. Moreover, in my experience, the reinstatement cost will generally impact 
the cost of the policy. AXA hasnt told us that it would have offered the policy for the 
same premium if Mrs L had declared an amount more in line with its professional 
estimates. So I think the estimated reinstatement cost is likely to impact the terms on 
which an insurer will offer cover and therefore, its a material circumstance. 
For completeness, I would add that if Im wrong and AXA wouldnt have charged a 
higher premium if Mrs L had given a higher reinstatement cost then I wouldnt think it 
would be fair and reasonable for it to reduce the settlement for underinsurance. I say 
this because if AXA would have insured the risk at the same cost then I consider that 
the average clause would only benefit AXA and not L and AXA wouldnt have 
experienced any financial loss at the point of the sale from the information provided by 
Mrs L. 
Ive noted AXAs points that it doesnt think that the Act precluded it from applying the 
average clause, or that its necessary for an insurer to follow the contracting out 
provisions of the Act. However, Ive set out my reasons for this within my provisional 
decision and I havent seen anything from AXA in response to my provisional decision 
to persuade me to change my mind. 
As set out in my provisional decision, I dont think AXA can apply the average clause if 
it hasnt fulfilled its requirements with regard to contracting out of the Act. I consider 
that Mrs L made a fair presentation of the risk when buying the policy and therefore I 
dont believe that AXA has a remedy available under the Act.  Fair and reasonable
However, even if I am wrong about any aspect of the legal position set out above, I still 
think that considering Ls complaint in the way set out in my provisional decision 
produces a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I say this because Mrs L took reasonable steps to make sure the reinstatement cost 
was accurate, and I believe that she acted in good faith. Ls policy didnt require Mrs L 
to get new valuations each year and AXA increased the sum insured by inflation. Mrs L 
based her original estimate on a valuation, and I dont think she had any reason to 
suspect she hadnt given a fair figure to AXA at the renewal. In these circumstances I 
dont consider that it would be fair for AXA to nonetheless reduce her claim significantly 
on the strength of professional valuations she didnt  and wouldnt  have had access 
to when renewing the policy.
So, in this particular case, I dont think it would produce a fair and reasonable outcome 
for AXA to reduce the settlement of Ls claim due to the reinstatement cost not being 
what AXA believe it should be.
Therefore, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings and have set out 
how AXA should put things right below.  
Putting things right
It remains that I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for AXA to:
Pay L an additional £8,045.16 so that Ls claim is paid without any deductions for 
underinsurance (less any of the additional amount AXA might have already paid 
towards the total amount of the claim).
Add interest to the additional amount of £8,045.16 at a rate of 8% simple per year
            from the date AXA paid the £11,270.84 until the date it makes payment.
Pay L £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to do as set out in the Putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2023.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman