DRN-2620746
The complaint
Mr W complains Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly refused a claim on his 
motorhome warranty.
What happened
In 2019 Mr W took out a Great Lakes silver level motorhome warranty. In July 2020 he 
made a claim. There was a problem with the combi boiler in his motorhome. The faulty 
part was obsolete. So a new boiler was required. But Great Lakes refused the claim. It 
said the faulty part wasnt listed in his policy terms as a covered part.
Great Lakes responded to Mr Ws complaint. It said its decision to refuse his claim was 
correct. It said the fault had been due to a wiring harness with coils from the PCB to 
the gas valve. It said wiring is excluded by the policy terms and isnt listed as a covered 
part.
Mr W provided various engineers reports to this service. He disagreed that the wiring 
harness was the faulty part. Our Investigator forwarded Great Lakes Mr Ws reports. It said 
it still felt fault the wiring harness was faulty. And as that part isnt listed as a covered part it 
continued to refuse to pay the claim. Our Investigator said Great Lakes had fairly refused 
the claim. Mr W didnt accept that, so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I previously explained to Great Lakes, and Mr W, that I intended to require it to settle his 
claim. He seemed to accept my proposal. Unfortunately, Great Lakes didnt. So Ive set 
out below why I feel the claim should be paid and what I require Great Lakes to do.
This decision only considers issues that are the responsibility of the provider of Mr Ws 
cover, Great Lakes. Hes also raised various complaints point about the sale of the 
policy. Those would need to be considered in a separate complaint against the firm that 
sold him the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers listed items against Mechanical Breakdown. Mr Ws combi boiler 
stopped working. It seems the wiring harness needs to be replaced to make a repair. This 
particular component is unfortunately obsolete. Great Lakes refused the claim as it says 
the wiring harness isnt an item listed as covered by Mr Ws Silver policy.
One part of the policy terms lists the parts it covers. It refers to parts covered and later 
itemscovered. I accept wiring harness isnt a listed part or item. However, the combi 
is gas powered to provide hot water and heating to Mr Ws motor home. And both water 
heater and gas heater are listed as covered items  under the headings of Water 
system and Heating system respectively.
Therefore, the combi itself, as both a water heater and gas heater seems to be an item 
or part specifically listed as covered under either the Water system or Heating system 
sections. So the absence of wiring harness doesnt seem a fair reason to refuse Mr Ws 
claim.
I previously explained this to Great Lakes. It failed to respond to my point that water 
heater and gas heater are mentioned as listed parts or items. It didnt provide anything 
that changed my position.
It seems, based on what Ive seen, the combi experienced a sudden mechanical 
breakdown as defined by the policy. The failure seems to have been sudden and 
unforeseen. There seems to have been a permanent electrical or electronic defect causing 
stoppage of its function. And repair or replacement is required before normal operation can 
resume.
I note the policy says If the part is no longer available, it will be the insurers 
responsibility for the cost of the original failure only and not the cost of the replacement 
unit.
Unfortunately, the component required for a repair to the combi isnt available. However, 
the item or part specifically listed as covered is the combi itself ie water heater or gas 
heater. So I think its fair and reasonable to consider the covered part to be the combi 
itself rather than the individual damaged component. So to settle the claim it will be fair for 
Great Lakes to cover the cost of replacing the damaged item itself, the combi.
It seems likely to me the exact model will no longer be available. Mr W says he has 
been quoted £1,800 to replace the combi. However, the policy has a claim limit of 
£1,000. So Great Lakes will only need to settle the claim up to that amount. It will need 
to do that on receipt of evidence to show Mr W has completed and paid for the works.
Mr W initially made this claim in the summer of 2020. I think its likely if Great Lakes had 
fairly settled the claim within reasonable time he would have had the repairs completed 
some time ago. So Great Lakes failure to do so has caused him to unnecessarily be 
without hot water and heating in his motorhome for much longer than he would have 
otherwise. I think its likely this has caused unnecessary inconvenience and distress. So to 
recognise this I intend to require Great Lakes to pay him £200 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to pay Mr W:
£1,000 towards the cost of repairs (on receipt of evidence they have been made 
and paid for) and
£200 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
Daniel Martin
 
Ombudsman