DRN-2861595
The complaint
Mr S complains Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund some disputed transactions.
He is helped in his complaint by Ms J  but for ease, I will refer to Mr S throughout my 
decision.
What happened
Mr S told Lloyds in October 2018 that for some years, he had not had control of his finances 
or his debit card.  He said he had been through a divorce sometime in 2014 and during that 
time had been befriended by someone who I will refer to as CD.  CD had told Mr S that he 
(CD) should look after Mr Ss finances and it was at this point that Mr S says he handed over 
his debit card and control of his finances to him.
In 2018, Mr Ss new partner became suspicious about CDs behaviour and this was the 
reason it was then reported to Lloyds.
Mr S said that since 2014, he had not used his card to make purchases.  Neither had he 
himself registered for online banking.  He said the debit card transactions; cash withdrawals 
and transfers and online purchases were all unauthorised.
He also told Lloyds that he had some mental health difficulties and some cognitive 
impairment which led to memory loss.  In addition to some physical health difficulties, these 
had left him vulnerable.
When Mr S reported CD to the police, they decided not to prosecute him.  And when Lloyds 
cancelled his card in October 2018, he said he was threatened by CD. 
Lloyds investigated the transactions.  It decided to refund the online transactions which 
amounted to just over £37000 because it accepted these had not been authorised.  But in its 
final response in relation to the debit card activity, it said it looked as if Mr S may have 
benefitted from these and so, it was not going to reimburse them.  The remaining disputed 
transaction totalled approximately £37000.
In its submissions to this service, Lloyds thought Mr S must have authorised the use of the 
debit card.  For instance, there were transactions made in South Africa and Mr S 
acknowledged that he had been to South Africa with CD for a holiday.
Mr S asked us to look at his complaint.  He thought Lloyds had been unfair in not 
reimbursing all the disputed transactions.  He reminded us of his vulnerabilities and said he 
had been a victim of fraud.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask Lloyds to do anymore  so the matter was passed 
to me for a final decision.
In response to the investigators view, Mr S also questioned why it was that Lloyds hadnt 
monitored his account and made checks to ensure he was authorising the transactions on 
his account.  He thought it had been negligent in this regard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficult time Mr S has had in the last few years but I have to tell him 
that, broadly speaking, I think that the investigator has come to the right conclusion here and 
I will not be asking Lloyds to refund this money to him.
disputed transactions
The regulations relevant to Mr Ss complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 
and these are overlapped by the revised Regulations from 2017 (PSRs). In short, Lloyds 
can generally only hold Mr S responsible for transactions he has authorised himself. If there 
are transactions that Mr S hasnt authorised, then the bank would normally have to refund. 
But the PSRs say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr S can be treated as 
acting with apparent authority when making transactions on their account  so the issue I 
need to consider is whether Mr S did or said something which essentially meant he 
consented to CD using his card.  And I remind myself that during the period of apparent 
authority, Mr S wouldnt have needed to know about each and every transaction which CD 
was carrying out on the account.
Mr S says he handed his debit card over to CD because of the situation he found himself in 
at the time.  So, he accepts the card and PIN were given to him  although I suspect he 
wouldnt agree with me if I were to use the word voluntarily.  In any event, Im afraid that 
consent, for the purposes of the PSRs is not invalidated by a lack of mental capacity or 
coercive and controlling behaviour.
So, once CD had Mr Ss card, I need to consider what Mr S did to terminate this authority  
and it seems to me, from what Mr S has told us, that the first time he acted was in October 
2018 when he reported the matter to Lloyds.  I think it would be fair to say at this point, the 
apparent authority provided to CD was terminated and if any transactions were carried out 
after this date, they are most likely to be deemed to be unauthorised.
In the circumstances, considering the PSRs, Im afraid Lloyds has not been unfair or 
unreasonable in not refunding these payments to Mr S.
could Lloyds have done more?
Ive considered whether I think that the transactions complained about were out of character 
for Mr Ss account and I dont think they were. Perhaps it could be argued that the regular 
transfers to CDs account may have been  but I can see that Lloyds has already refunded 
the online transactions.
So, I cant say, fairly, that Lloyds ought to have intervened in the payments which were being 
made.
whats fair and reasonable?I am also obliged, by the rules which govern this service, to consider whether Lloyds 
response is a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ss complaint  and here I revert to Lloyds 
decision and that of the investigator.
From the transactions which Mr S has highlighted, it would be difficult to ascertain which of 
those were ones which Mr S did not benefit from.  Mr S accepts CD did his food shopping 
and that he relied on CD to provide him with money.  So, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for 
me to ask Lloyds to refund money to Mr S which he may have had the benefit of.  Mr S 
would be receiving a double benefit.  
I started this decision by saying I was sorry for the situation Mr S has found himself in.  
However, I need to decide whether Lloyds has done anything wrong and has contributed to 
the situation.
It accepted it did by refunding the online transactions  but for the reasons outlined in this 
decision, I cant fairly say it did anything wrong in how it dealt with the debit card 
transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman