DRN-3425866
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund money paid for car hire. He  would 
like the car hire cost refunded.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
When disputes arise over credit card transactions, as is the case here, there are two 
ways banks can seek to recover funds for consumers - a Section 75 claim or a 
Chargeback request. . Bank of Scotland investigated both options which is what I 
would have expected it to do.
Bank of Scotland said it was unable to pursue a Section 75 claim referring to the 
terms and conditions of the contract for car hire Mr H signed. I think it made the right 
decision but for the wrong reason. As our investigator explained for a Section 75 
claim to succeed there needs to be a direct relationship between Mr H (the debtor) , 
the supplier and Bank of Scotland (the creditor). Unfortunately, this link doesnt exist 
as Mr H made the payment through another company who then paid the supplier so 
a Section 75 claim wasnt appropriate in this case. 
In terms of the Chargeback request  I have seen the information Bank of Scotland 
received from the supplier. This showed that the agreement Mr H signed was non 
refundable with no option to cancel or modify the booking. Although Mr H had a 
three-hour  window to collect the car the agreement didnt  specify this had to be in 
working or business hours. Mr H then didnt collect the car until the next day which I 
think was a significant change not allowed under the contract. Banks dont have to 
pursue Chargeback claims if they dont feel they have a reasonable chance of 
success. I think Bank of Scotlands decision not to pursue the Chargeback request 
further was reasonable given the information provided by the supplier
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman