DRN-2938645
The complaint
Mr F is complaining about the way TSB Bank plc has handled a chargeback claim he made 
regarding a transaction he made on his bank account. Hes also unhappy with the service it 
gave when he called to query his account balance. He thinks its discriminated against him 
due to his disability.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr F entered into a contract with an online travel company  who I shall 
referred to as O  to buy a holiday. The contract included flights and hotel. Unfortunately, the 
company providing the flights  T  stopped trading while he was on holiday. So his return 
flight was cancelled. Mr F says he rebooked his flights with another company to enable him 
to return home.
Mr F says he later contacted O to request a refund of the cost of his cancelled flight but he 
says he was told to contact his bank. Mr F then contacted TSB who said it was unable to 
process a chargeback until Mr F had initially sought a refund from ATOL (Air Travel 
Organiser's Licence). Mr F didnt think this was correct, so he raised a complaint about 
TSBs handling of his claim. He also thought the call handlers he spoke to hadnt treated him 
fairly and discriminated against him because of his disability. He said hed suffered a lot of 
distress and inconvenience.
Mr F also contacted TSB separately to query the balance on his account. He was unhappy 
with the way the call handler spoke to him on that telephone call as he said he felt the call 
handler had belittled him. TSB listened to the call and offered Mr F £25 in compensation for 
the way the call was handled. Mr F initially accepted this, but then later called back to say he 
didnt agree. TSB said it would reopen the complaint and look into it further. 
Mr F called TSB a number of times over the next few weeks as he was unhappy with the 
length of time it was taking TSB to respond. TSB didnt uphold his complaint any further, so 
Mr F referred his complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Chargeback claim
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider look to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily credit the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the money is 
re-debited from the consumers account.
Banks can consider whether a chargeback claim has a reasonable prospect of success 
before processing the claim and can decline to process it if it doesnt think there are 
reasonable prospects of success. But it needs to exercise this right fairly and reasonably. 
TSB said it wouldnt raise the chargeback because O would have defended the claim by 
saying Mr F should refer his claim to ATOL first. But I dont agree. 
If a travel company with an ATOL certificate goes out of business, the ATOL scheme 
protects consumers who've booked holidays with the firm. It ensures they do not get 
stranded abroad or lose money. But Mr Fs contract was with O and the ATOL certificate 
was in respect to O. O was still trading, so Mr F didnt have ATOL protection in this case. So 
TSB was wrong to decline Mr Fs chargeback claim for this reason. 
Ive now thought about the likely outcome had TSB attempted the chargeback. We cant 
know for certain what O would have said in response, but Ive thought about whats most 
likely.
 
Due to the flight provider ceasing to trade, Mr Fs return flights were cancelled. Ive looked at 
the terms and conditions of Mr Fs contract with O and they say that, where a supplier 
cancels part of the travel arrangement or makes a significant change to them, O will make 
alternative arrangements or Mr F is entitled to request a refund.
I havent seen anything to show that O made alternative arrangements for him. But, even if it 
did, Mr F was entitled to request a refund where his flight was cancelled instead of accepting 
any alternative arrangements O may have been made. So I think the terms of the contract 
entitled him to a refund. It follows that I think, had TSB attempted the chargeback, its likely it 
would have been successful.
Mr F and his travel companions were able to use the outbound ticket, so I dont think hes 
eligible for a full refund of the flight costs  only the return flight aspect of it. The invoice 
doesnt breakdown how much of the flight cost was for the outbound and inbound flights. So 
I think the fairest way to remedy this is that TSB should refund 50% of cost of the flight  i.e. 
£320.14.
Customer Service
I think TSBs decision to not process the chargeback application has caused Mr F some 
unfair distress and inconvenience. As I said above, I think it would have been successful and 
naturally, Mr F wouldnt have had to look to continually pursue this through other avenues. 
And this matter would have been resolved two years ago.
Ive listened to all the telephone calls Mr F had with TSB at the time  both in respect to his 
dispute regarding T and when he called to query the balance on his account. Mr F has also 
complained about the way a call handler spoke to him when he called to query the balance 
on his account. Hes also unhappy with the information he was given when he called for 
updates on his complaints.
Ive listened to the telephone call when Mr F called to query his bank account. Mr F has said 
he felt the call handler belittled him. But I dont agree. Its unfortunate the call handler 
couldnt give the information Mr F needed and it does seem he was getting frustrated with 
Mr F on the call. At times both parties were talking over each other and I do think the call 
handler could have handled the call better. But I think Mr Fs primary frustration is that he 
wasnt getting the information he needed. From listening to a later telephone call, it seems 
there may have been a pending transaction that wasnt appearing on the system that meant 
the call handler couldnt explain the shortfall. But I think the call handler could have 
explained this a bit more clearly and managed the call better. But I havent seen anything to 
show that he belittled Mr F or treated him overly unfairly. Ive listened to numerous telephone calls Mr F had with TSB afterwards where he called to 
discuss and get updates on the telephone calls. Mr F says he was promised numerous 
manager call backs but didnt receive them. I can see that he asked for a manager to call 
him back a number of times, but he was told on each occasion that they couldnt guarantee 
that and said the complaints hadnt been allocated yet. I havent seen anywhere where he 
didnt get a promised call back and I think TSB did look to manage his expectations, 
although I appreciate Mr F was frustrated with the information he was being given. 
Mr F also expressed unhappiness that TSB said it would take eight weeks to investigate the 
complaint. But it wasnt unreasonable for it to say this as this is the timescales set by the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  to investigate a complaint. So TSBs call 
handlers were following FCA guidelines in the information it was giving him. I appreciate 
Mr F was in pain due to his disability and found the process very frustrating. But I dont think 
the call handlers handled his complaint calls unfairly or unnecessarily delayed his 
complaints. And they did remind him of his right to refer his complaint to this service. 
That said, as I said, I do think TSB has caused Mr F some unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience in the way in handled the chargeback claim and on the initial call when Mr F 
called to query his balance. The investigator recommended £250 in compensation and I 
think thats in line with what I would have awarded and is fair compensation for whats 
happened.
TSB responded to my provisional decision and didnt accept it. And, in summary, it raised 
the following points:
Mr F made the chargeback claim online and didnt mention that the booking was made 
through an online travel agent. So it said it had no reason to believe that claiming 
through ATOL wouldnt be successful and it maintained the correct advice was given at 
the time.
It said it responded to Mr Fs claim within a few days giving reasonable advice about how 
to recover the refund.
It said the it wasnt aware the contract was with O was until August 2021  nearly two 
years after the event  by which time it was too late to raise a chargeback claim.
It said there wasnt anything to show Mr F hadnt received a refund from O.
It also said it had paid Mr F a further £100 in compensation in November 2019.
Mr F responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken TSBs additional points into consideration, but Ive come to the same conclusion 
as I did in my provisional decision. TSB hasnt disputed anything I said about the likely 
outcome had it processed the chargeback. So Im not going to comment further on this as it 
seems to be accepted the chargeback would have succeeded had TSB processed it. TSB 
disputes my provisional decision because it considers the advice it gave Mr F when he first 
raised the chargeback was fair based on the information it had at the time.
I do not dispute that Mr F didnt mention hed booked the tickets through O when he first 
raised the chargeback. I also dont dispute that there was guidance saying consumers 
should contact ATOL where theyve booked through T. However, industry guidance was 
issued at the time setting out an expected process for how card providers were expected to consider claims relating to the demise of T. And this set out that they needed to think about 
whether the consumer booked the flight/holiday directly through T or through a third party or 
agent.
I fully appreciate the operational challenges all organisations were facing at the time and I do 
understand why TSB chose to advise Mr F to approach ATOL as opposed to carrying out a 
chargeback claim. But this was incorrect advice as Mr F wasnt covered by ATOL for his loss 
and TSB didnt carry out the investigation it should have done.
Consumers arent expected to fully understand everything they need to disclose when they 
contact a card provider to make a chargeback claim. Its the responsibility of the card 
provider to guide the consumer through the process and they should carry out a reasonable 
investigation to understand the prospects of success. In respect to this case, I think TSB 
should have responded to Mr Fs claim to ascertain whether the booking was made directly 
with T or through a third party. And, had it done so, it would have learnt Mr F wasnt covered 
by ATOL for his specific losses. I think this should have been further evident to TSB as the 
transactions on the account were in the name of O.
Ultimately, while I recognise TSB werent aware that the flight was booked through O until 
August 2021  nearly two years after the event  this is because it didnt carry out a 
reasonable investigation at the time. And, had it done so, it would have understood Mr F 
wasnt eligible to claim through ATOL for the cancellation of this flight.
I also note TSB has set out that there isnt anything to show he didnt get a refund of the cost 
the flight. But Mr F has told us he didnt and it seems he contacted TSB as soon as ATOL 
rejected his claim. I havent seen anything to support the fact he didnt get a refund from O. 
And from what I know of the situation at the time and the communication weve had with 
Mr F I think its unlikely he did receive a refund. However, naturally, if TSB can evidence 
Mr F did receive a refund from O, it wouldnt be required to compensate Mr F again.
Finally, Ive considered TSBs comment that it actually paid Mr F £125 regarding his 
complaint about the balance on the account. Im sorry I wasnt aware Mr F had received an 
additional £100 in compensation. I think its fair to take this into consideration in the level of 
compensation to award. And, as I set out in my provisional decision, TSB can deduct any 
compensation it has already paid to Mr F regarding these complaints from this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to do 
the following to put things right:
1. Refund 50% of cost of the flight  i.e. £320.14. It should also pay 8% simple interest per 
year on this from when Mr F first made the chargeback claim until he gets it back. If TSB 
can show Mr F received a refund from O, it isnt required to refund the cost of the flight 
again. But it should pay 8% simple interest on the refund he received from when he first 
made the chargeback claim until the date O refunded the cost*; and
2. Pay £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused him. It can 
deduct any compensation its already paid Mr F regarding this matter.
* It should add 8% simple interest per year on these payments from when Mr F paid them 
until he gets them back. If TSB thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman