DRN-4409942
The complaint
Mr M complains Royal and Sun Alliance trading as RSA (RSA) did not complete satisfactory 
repairs to his car after he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He is also unhappy 
with the delays to his car being repaired by his chosen garage.
There are several parties and representatives of RSA involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to RSA.
What happened
In June 2022 Mr Ms car was damaged in an incident. He made a claim on his motor 
insurance policy that he held with RSA.
RSA arranged for the repairs to his car to be undertaken by its approved repairer.
When Mr M went to collect his car he found some of the work was not complete and also 
found additional damage to the car. RSAs approved repairer made a number of attempts to 
repair the car and return it in the pre accident condition, but Mr M said the repairs were still 
not satisfactory. 
Mr M put his car into storage.
An independent inspection of Mr Ms car was undertaken, which found the repairs 
unsatisfactory. RSA agreed he could find his own garage to complete this. Mr M obtained an 
estimate for the required work and RSA approved it. 
As Mr M had put his car into storage, costs were due and  there was dispute on who was 
liable for these costs. This caused further delays to completion of the repairs to Mr Ms car.
As Mr M was not happy with RSA, he brought the complaint to our service.
After Mr M brought his complaint to our service RSA agreed to cover the storage and 
transport charges. It also offered £500 compensation in respect of the poor repairs, delays 
and upset caused. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said it was appropriate 
for RSA to allow Mr M to choose his own repairer after its own repairer failed to repair the 
authorised damage and also caused further damage. They said the delays to the repairs 
starting at Mr Ms chosen repairer was due to agreeing settlement of the storage costs for 
Mr Ms car. They said as RSA agreed to cover these costs although it was not obligated to 
do so, this was fair. They said the offer of £500 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused was fair for the issues encountered at RSAs repairers. 
As Mr M is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I looked at the timeline of Mr Ms claim. He completed an online claim form after the incident 
in June 2022 and the claim progressed with questions from RSAs approved repairer and 
courtesy car provider.
I saw the car was driveable and Mr M did not initially need a courtesy car. As Mr M was 
going on holiday he requested the repair work was not booked until his return.
In September 2022 Mr M found further bodywork damage to his car and made two more 
claims on his motor insurance policy. These claims were also authorised by RSA. In 
mid-October 2022 Mr M contacted RSA to get all the repair work completed. The car was 
taken into RSAs approved repairer on 30 November 2022, and he collected a courtesy car.
Whilst Mr Ms car was at the approved repairer I saw contact was attempted by the repairer 
to Mr M. I also saw Mr M rang, and also visited, the repairer a number of times to find out 
progress of repairs. He found the repair work was not completed to a satisfactory standard. 
Some of the repair work required for the car to be taken to a third-party specialist for paint 
protection work to be undertaken. I saw Mr M also visited here to inspect his car and at the 
start of February 2023 as he was not happy with the standard of repairs to his car, he moved 
it into secure storage. He said this was to protect his car from further damage.
I saw in February 2023 an independent inspection carried out on Mr Ms car found the 
repairs to be of poor standard. Based on this inspection RSA agreed Mr M could get the 
repairs completed at a garage of his own choice. 
Mr Ms chosen repairer submitted an estimate for the bodywork, and I saw Mr M contacted 
RSA a number of times to seek authorisation of the estimate so the repairs could be 
completed. I accept this was time consuming and frustrating for Mr M. The repairs were 
authorised in early April 2022.
As Mr M had put his car into storage and costs had been incurred there was a dispute about 
who was liable for the storage costs which also caused a delay. I cannot hold RSA entirely 
responsible for this as Mr M had removed the car from the paint specialist and put it into 
storage without discussion with RSA. 
RSA agreed to cover the storage and transport charges for Mr Ms car, which were more 
than £500, after he brought his complaint to our service. I think this is fair and it enabled the 
repairs to then progress. It also accepted its approved repairer had completed a poor 
standard of repair and it had caused delays. 
I agree the poor workmanship by RSAs approved repairer and its poor communication 
during the period in which the repairs were due to be completed caused distress and 
significant inconvenience to Mr M. And I think the £500 offered by RSA is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint and is in line with our services guidance.  
Therefore, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and RSA should pay the £500 it has offered in respect 
of the poor repairs, delays and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.I require Royal and Sun Alliance trading as RSA to pay Mr M £500 compensation in respect 
of the poor repairs, delays and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman