DRN-2067086
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited failed to pay him a high 
enough market value for his car under his motor policy when it was written off due to 
damage from water ingress. He also thought he had an agreed value policy. 
 
What happened
Mr Ks car was a mid-range elite type sport car and Mr K insured it with Admiral from July 
2018. He also has another similar car which initially wasnt insured with Admiral but later 
came on cover under its multi-car policy.
In October 2019, Mr K said he found his car was flooded with water. So, he made a claim to 
Admiral. Although the independent assessor couldnt find how his car got flooded, Admiral 
accepted Mr Ks claim.
Initially Mr K wanted to keep the salvage, so Admiral deducted the salvage value from its 
market value payment to him and paid him £31,575. Then Mr K changed his mind and said 
he didnt to retain the salvage and wanted Admiral to pay him what he considered to be the 
correct market value of £75,000 for which is what he said he had insured his car. Admiral 
didnt agree this was the market value and instead it agreed pay him the remainder of what it 
considered the market value to be as an interim payment as Mr K was raising a complaint. 
Mr K believed his car was worth £75,000 and that he also had an agreed value policy with 
Admiral for that amount. Admiral explained his car wouldnt have met its agreed value 
policy conditions and that it never sold him an agreed value policy. And that consequently 
he had a market value policy. This meant Admirals liability was limited to the market value of 
his car. It valued his car at the higher end of the industry trade guides at £48,750 less his 
excess of £600 and paid him £48,150. 
Mr K remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think 
Admiral had done anything wrong, but he did think in the call recordings, it didnt make it 
clear to Mr K that his car was being insured on a market value basis and not an agreed 
value basis. So, he thought Admiral should pay him £100 compensation for this.
Mr K remained dissatisfied, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for compensation only on the same basis as 
the investigator. Ill now explain why. 
First, I will consider whether it was reasonable to consider that Mr K thought he was buying 
an agreed value policy.
Ive listened to two call recordings Admiral disclosed both with Mr K. The first one is 
concerns Mr Ks initial application for cover from Admiral and is dated 24 July 2018. Whilst 
there is some discussion over the value of his car here, there is simply no question in my 
view that the discussions could have assured Mr K he was buying an agreed value policy. I 
consider this to be very important as it was the call where he set up the policy for this car.
In the second call recording of 29 July 2019, which concerned Mr Ks issues with the cost of 
his renewal premium for now both his elite type sport cars, Mr Ks concerns over the value of 
his cars is far more apparent. The premium is increased to take account of the fact Mr K 
thinks his cars market value is £75,000 but it isnt apparent that Admirals adviser is aware 
of the difference between market value policies and agreed value policies at all. And she 
makes no mention that Mr Ks policy is a market value policy not an agreed value policy. I 
dont find that surprising however, as she was dealing with a renewal for a market value 
policy, and not setting up a new policy. So, on this basis alone given the lack of any detailed 
discussion about what Mr K thought his car was worth in the first initiating call, I dont 
consider it was reasonable for Mr K to assume in the renewal call he had originally bought 
an agreed value policy. 
This is because Mr K had access to his policy documents for the previous year. And indeed, 
would now have had access to this policy years documents shortly after this call. All the 
policy documents and the schedules clearly detail that Mr K has a market value policy not an 
agreed value policy. These documents clearly detail that Admirals liability is for whatever 
the market value of his car is at the date of loss. Therefore, since the policyholder, such as 
Mr K here, is invited to read and check their policy documents on receipt I think it was 
reasonable for Admiral to have expected Mr K to raise any issue about his concerns of the 
value of his car when he set his policy up in 2018. But he didnt. And neither did he after this 
second call renewing his previous policy. 
Admiral has confirmed it does offer an agreed value policy for classic cars of which Mr Ks 
car wasnt one. It has also confirmed the maximum amount it insures on such a classic 
policy is £25,000, which would have not met Mr Ks needs from the outset. 
Admiral doesnt advertise itself as a specialist car insurer, it doesnt actively market agreed 
value policies. None of the more usual motor insurers on the aggregator insurance websites 
do. Its a very specialist motor insurance market and given Mr Ks interest in this sort of car 
and his stated professions, namely working in areas of finance, financial risk and banking 
and his stated previous dealing with other specialised motor insurers, I consider its highly 
likely he was well aware of how the motor industry worked and that he knew quite well that 
he was not buying an agreed value policy from Admiral. 
I also agree with Admiral that on the second call recording, its obvious Mr K knows that for a 
specialist insurer which he said he had used previously for another car (I believe), he had to 
send in photographs of that car before the possible agreed value policy was confirmed. 
Which, if I understand it correctly, he didnt do and hence not getting the agreed value pay 
out. Theres no indication Mr K was expecting to do this with Admirals policy in that call. Mr 
K doesnt ask if Admiral needs to see photographs and he doesnt ask if it needs to agree his 
valuation of his car. He simply wants it known he believes his car is worth £75,000 and 
indeed the premium was slightly increased as a result. 
Mr K has since said he was coerced into insuring his car for £75,000 but there is simply no 
indication of that on the call recordings. Instead it was Mr K who initiated all issues 
concerning the issue that he thought his car was worth £75,000.
Mr K was charged a slightly higher premium on the basis that he said his car was worth 
£75,000. We asked Admiral about this. It said the following:
 When we increase the market value of a vehicle on cover, our potential risk of how 
much we may have to pay out in the instance of a claim increases. Therefore, the 
policy is then rerated based on this information - compared to our pricing structure 
and rating factors. As a result, the premium was increased correctly.
When this change was completed it is procedure for the agent to ask the customer 
the market value of their vehicle to ensure we have it correctly. In this case the 
customer advised it should be £75,000.00, which the agent updated. We trust our 
customers are advising us of the correct information in accordance to the description 
available in the IPID [Insurance Product Information Document] document and policy 
booklet - both of which are available to the customer before purchasing and do not 
require our agents to check the average value of a vehicle. As previously explained, 
the information available for the customer in the IPID document which explains 'we 
offer market value at the time of loss'. 
On the basis that this increase in premium is based on the customers own valuation of their 
own car and the policy was not an agreed value policy since it clearly stated the maximum 
liability of Admiral was the market value of his car, I dont consider Admiral did anything 
wrong here, it correctly rated the premium amount on the information Mr K gave it, which is 
in line with its duties under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012.
So, whilst I agree the adviser in the renewal call should have made things clearer in that Mr 
Ks policy was a market value policy and because she didnt, Admiral should rightly pay 
some compensation, notwithstanding the fact I dont overall consider that Admiral led Mr K to 
believe he had bought an agreed value policy. I also agree with the investigators view that 
Admiral should pay Mr K £100 compensation only, for this. This is in line with other awards I 
have made in similar circumstances.
Turning now to the market value of Mr Ks car. I consider thats fair and reasonable Admiral 
used the usual trade guides to ascertain the value of Mr Ks car. As has already being 
explained to Mr K, this service and the motor insurance industry dont consider that adverts 
for car sales to be an appropriate measure of what a car is worth. This is because those 
prices as advertised can be negotiated. The trade guides on the other hand simple record 
the actual selling prices for the cars. 
Obviously too, the valuation of a car isnt an exact science. This service doesnt provide a 
valuation service but does look to ensure the insurer used reasonable endeavours to 
ascertain the value of the car. I consider Admiral did this as it used the industry standard 
trade valuation guides. It chose the highest valuation of all the three main trade guides and 
given it was evident Mr Ks car was in excellent condition before this water damage, I 
consider this to be reasonable.
 
The investigator also asked a reputable car auctioneer to consider the valuation Admiral had 
decided. He said the following:
From a personal point of view, if I was the consumer I would be over the moon with 
this valuation. Whilst the car is desirable it is by no means a classic [make of car], 
valuations are all over the place, but having reviewed retails option on various 
websites, [names of websites] and having also run the make model and mileage 
though the valuation anywhere tool at £48,750 he has had a fantastic offer.
Im persuaded by this reaction and opinion and so it follows I consider Admiral used its best 
endeavours to ensure Mr K was paid a reasonable valuation for his car.
 My final decision
  So, for these reasons, it my final decision that I uphold this complaint for compensation 
only.
I now require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr K £100 compensation if it 
hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman