DRN-2496024
The complaint
Mr N complains about The Co-operative Bank Plc and their decision to decline attempts he 
made to withdraw substantial amounts in cash at his local branch.
What happened
In July 2020, Mr N visited his local Co-op branch on three occasions to withdraw cash from 
his current account. Due to the amounts Mr N wanted to withdraw, the branch asked Mr N to 
confirm the reasoning for the withdrawal. 
Mr N provided differing reasons, ranging from keeping the cash at home to using the cash 
for investment purposes. But the branch didnt think Mr Ns reasoning provided enough of an 
explanation and they were concerned Mr N may have been co-coerced into withdrawing the 
cash amounts. So, they declined the transactions. They also notified the police of their 
concerns, who attended Mr Ns property in August. Mr N was unhappy about the 
transactions being declined and the branchs decision to notify the police. So, he raised two 
complaints.
In Mr Ns first complaint, he explained he was unhappy that first withdrawal had been 
declined. He felt hed provided enough of an explanation and that the Co-op had infringed 
his privacy by wanting further information on what the cash would be used for. He felt his 
money was his to spend and didnt think the Co-op were fair to deny him access to this. The 
Co-op responded and didnt agree. They explained they had an obligation to protect their 
customers from potentially fraudulent activity and scams. And as the withdrawals were 
substantial and not in keeping with the way Mr N usually used his account, they felt they 
were fair to ask further questions and decline the withdrawal when Mr N said he didnt want 
to answer them.
Mr N then complained about the following two declined withdrawals and the Co-ops decision 
to contact the police. He didnt think the Co-op had made him aware of their intentions when 
he spoke to them on the phone. And he thought they should. And he didnt think it was fair 
for them to continually deny him access to the funds in his account. He explained hed 
missed out on an investment opportunity because of this and wanted compensation for this. 
Co-op responded and again didnt agree. They maintained their view that theyd acted fairly 
when declining the withdrawals as they remained concerned about the safeguarding of Mr N 
and his account. They explained theyd offered Mr N the chance of an electronic transfer, but 
hed declined. And they thought theyd been reasonable when contacting the police due to 
the concerns they had. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr N 
remained unhappy with this, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought the Co-op had 
acted in good faith to prevent Mr N and his account from being victim to a scam or fraudulent 
activity. He explained it was unusual for investments to require such large amounts in cash, 
so felt the Co-ops concerns were justified and reasonable. Because of this, he felt theyd 
acted fairly when declining the transactions and so didnt think they needed to do anything 
further.
Mr N didnt agree. He didnt think our investigator had fully address his concerns surrounding 
his inability to access funds in his account. And he maintained his view that the Co-op were 
attempting to breaching his right to privacy by asking for specific detail on the investment he 
wanted to make. He didnt think this was fair. And he felt hed lost out financially as he wasnt 
able to make the investment. So, he wanted to be compensated for the inconvenience and 
he also wanted the Co-op to cover his financial losses. As Mr N didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this complaint has caused Mr N. Ive no doubt it wouldve 
been frustrating for Mr N to be denied the cash withdrawals in branch. Mr N has explained 
he intended to use the cash for an investment which he feels wouldve been profitable so I 
can appreciate why he feels hes lost out financially. And I do understand Mr Ns comments 
surrounding the access to his own account and why he think its unfair hes been denied this. 
But for me to say the Co-op did something wrong, Id need to be satisfied they declined the 
withdrawals unfairly. So, Id need to be satisfied that the Co-op acted outside of their usual 
process for similar withdrawals and situations. Or, Id need to be satisfied that the questions 
they asked were unreasonable or that they failed to act fairly based on the answers Mr N 
provided. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Banks such as the Co-op have an obligation to protect their customers and their accounts 
from suspected scams and fraudulent activity. So, Id expect the Co-op to have processes in 
place to ensure transactions that differ from regular account activity, or that contain 
substantial withdrawals, are assessed comprehensively to ensure the account is protected to 
a reasonable standard.
In this situation, Mr N attempted to withdraw a substantial amount of cash from his account. 
He made three attempted withdrawals ranging between £9,000 and £10,500 with the 
withdrawal amount increasing on each visit. Banks have a withdrawal limit in place for cash 
machines and at the counter, which money can be taken out of an account without the need 
for any approval. In this situation, Mr N was attempting to withdraw a cash amount much 
greater than these limits. And as the Co-op have explained, this withdrawal differed from Mr 
Ns usual use of his account. So, Id expect the Co-op to question Mr Ns need for the 
withdrawal. And I cant say it was unfair of them to do so.
Mr N himself has admitted he was reluctant to provide any real detail explaining the 
reasoning for his withdrawals. Ive seen from the Co-ops systems note that Mr N provided 
differing reasons explaining his need for the withdrawal in cash. But Mr N has since 
confirmed he wanted the cash for an investment although hes provided no further detail 
about exactly what this investment was. So, Ive considered whether the Co-op were fair to 
decline the withdrawals based on the limited information Mr N provided. And I think they 
were.
Mr N initially explained he wanted to keep the cash at home and provided no further 
reasoning behind the need for the cash. He then explained he wanted to give the cash to his parents, but they had no account to transfer it electronically. And finally, Mr N has explained 
he wanted the cash to use for an investment. 
I think, as no further context was given by Mr N, the Co-op were fair to query the reasons Mr 
N provided. I think its fair for the Co-op to deem all three reasons as unusual and I can 
understand why this would give them cause for concern. As the Co-op explained in their 
response to Mr Ns complaint, there has been a rise in scams where customers have been 
coerced into taking out large sums of cash. And as Mr N provided very limited detail on the 
need for the cash withdrawals and taking into consideration the fact he increased the 
amount he wanted to withdraw each time, I think the Co-op were fair to decline withdrawals 
to ensure Mr N and his account remained protected. So, I cant say they did anything wrong 
and because of this, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr N. I want to reassure him Ive 
considered his comments regarding his right to privacy. And I agree that it would be 
unreasonable to expect a customer to provide reasons for every transaction they want to 
make. But despite Mr Ns right to privacy, I think the Co-op had duty to protect Mr N and his 
account and theyve acted fairly when doing so. And I think any customer wouldve needed 
to provide the same amount of information in a similar situation.
And Im aware Mr N doesnt think the unfairness of him being unable to access funds in his 
account was addressed previously. But Mr N did still have access to his account and the 
funds within it. Mr N was still able to withdraw smaller amounts of cash through the cash 
machine and at the cash desk without the need for approval. So, I cant say he was without 
access to his money. He was denied access to that specific amount of cash in one 
withdrawal and as Ive explained, I think the Co-op were fair to deny this.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint about The Co-operative 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman