DRN-2315972
The complaint
Mr P has complained that FCL Consumer Finance Ltd (Smart-Pig) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. Smart-Pig disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision in October 2020 saying that Mr Ps complaint should be 
upheld in part. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings follow 
this and form part of this final decision:
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr P took 5 loans from Smart-Pig between August 2014 and October 2015. A summary of
his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from the lender can be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidAmount 
BorrowedRepayment 
Amount
1 16/08/2014 20/09/2014 £250.00 £329.80
2 14/11/2014 10/01/2015 £350.00 £521.50
3 03/02/2015 26/04/2015 £350.00 £525.00
4 23/06/2015 19/10/2015 £350.00 £525.00
5 25/10/2015 26/02/2016 £350.00 £525.00
In our most recent assessment, our adjudicator thought that loans 2  5 should be upheld.
This is because, she didnt think that Smart-Pig did sufficient checks before granting these
loans. And had Smart-Pig carried out further checks it wouldve likely thought that Mr P
wasnt in a position to afford them.
It appears that Mr P agreed with our adjudicators opinion.
Smart-Pig disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. In response it said;
It took evidence of Mr Ps other income at the time loan 5 was granted and
The credit file had changed between loan 4 and 5 but this mainly involved Mr P
opening a new credit card and Smart-Pig not updating a record.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any
relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loan was provided.
Smart-Pig needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Smart-Pig should fairly and reasonably have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Smart-Pig was required to establish
whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im still intending to
uphold Mr Ps complaint. But Ive come to a different outcome than the one reached by our
adjudicator. I will explain my reasons in more detail below.
Smart-Pig is a specialist lender which only provides finance to students. As part of its
checks, it asked Mr P for evidence he was enrolled in higher education and for proof of his
student finance payments.
To begin with, Mr P seems to have accepted our adjudicators opinion, that Smart-Pig wasnt
wrong to approve his first loan. I think the initial approval of this loan is no longer in dispute,
so I have no reason to reach a finding about this in this decision. Instead, Ill focus on loans
2-5 and whether Smart-Pig were wrong to approve these loans.
Loan 2 and 3
For loan 2, Smart-Pig had already received evidence showing Mr P would receive a student
income of approximately £3,128 per term. This was made up of a student grant plus amaintenance loan. After the repayment of £521.50, Smart-Pig couldve concluded that Mr P
had around £2,607 left over for the term once. This worked out to be around £869 per month
to cover all of his basic living costs.
But I dont think Smart-Pigs checks were proportionate. Whilst Smart-Pig completed a credit
check, it didnt complete any additional checks to understand more about Mr Ps
circumstances before it approved the loan. A credit check doesnt give the full picture about
a customers circumstances as information about expenses such as rent, food and travel
wouldnt be available. Whilst I think the credit checks didnt show any adverse information or
information that wouldve alerted Smart-Pig to either signs of financial difficulties or wouldve
led it to conclude it shouldnt lent. But I do think Smart-Pig needed to do more to understand
if Mr P would be able to meet and sustain his basic living costs over the course of the term.
Ive looked at Mr Ps circumstances around the time he applied for his loan. Mr Ps rent was
around £396 per month. He was also paying around £60 for his mobile phone, £36 to
another phone provider and around £150 for travel expenses. Just these outgoings totalled
around £643 a month (or around £1,929 per term).
And when thinking about how much Mr P received from student finance and taking into
account the repayment, he was committed to paying Smart-Pig hed have been left him with
around £226 a month (or £52 a week) to cover all other costs such as for food and any other
expenses which were needed. So, I dont think the loan was affordable.
For loan 3 Smart-Pig completed the same level of checks as it had done so for the second
loan. It therefore follows, given what Ive said about loan two, that Smart-Pig ought to have
made some enquires with Mr P about his living costs and I dont think it did this.
And looking at Mr Ps outgoings remained broadly similar as they were at the time for loan
two. And given, loan three was for the same amount, Ive come to the same conclusions,
that had Smart-Pig carried out further checks it wouldve likely concluded that Mr P wasnt in
a position to afford this loan.
But Mr Ps costs remained broadly similar as they were at loan 2 and loan 3 was for the
same amount. So, for the same reasons that Ive explained above, for loan 2. I still think
Smart-Pig was wrong to have provided loan 3.
Loan 4
By the time loan 4 was taken, Mr P had been borrowing from Smart-Pig for around 10
months and seems to have taken out lending with a repayment to be made in each
academic term. It was also the third consecutive loan for the same amount of £350.
By this point, I think it was reasonable to expect Smart-Pig to try and carry out a more
detailed check of Mr Ps finances to ensure he hadnt become reliant on its lending and
could afford to repay the loan sustainably. This is especially so, as Smart-Pig received
evidence that Mr Ps student finance, for the next financial year, was going to be
considerably less than what hed received in the previous year (and for the first three loans).
It seems Mr P was due to receive £2,425 for the academic year which worked out to be
around £888 per term. The repayment for loan 4 was £525, so he would have been left with
around £363 for the term (or around £30 per week) to meet all his basic living costs. This is
something Smart-Pig wouldve been aware of at the time, so I think its unlikely it wouldve
thought this loan was affordable for Mr P.
Although I would point out at this point that Mr P appears to have had a change in livingarrangements and was now living back home. But even taking into account his reduced
living costs he still didnt have sufficient funds to afford his living costs as well as meeting his
loan repayments.
Loan 5
It appears that Mr Ps circumstances had significantly changed from when he applied for his
last loan. Smart-Pig received a payslip from Mr P showing he was now employed and was
earning around £961 per month. And in addition to this, Mr P was still receiving student
finance of around £888 a month.
Like loan 4, I still think Smart-Pig shouldve been verifying Mr Ps information to be satisfied
that he had enough income to be able to afford the repayments he was committed to
making. And, the gap between loans had now decreased by around a week.
And as with the other loans, Ive received Mr Ps bank statements to determine what I think
Smart-Pig wouldve most likely discovered had it carried out further checks.
Had Smart-Pig, carried out the detailed checks that I think it shouldve done, I think it would
have seen that Mr Ps circumstances had significantly changed. Mr P has told us he was still
living at home at this time. His bank statements shows he had minimal outgoings and most
of his income appears to have been withdrawn out in cash.
He still had some expenses for his mobile phone and to another phone provider along with
some travel costs. And he told us he was contributing up to £200 to his parents household
bills which he sometimes used cash for.
But I think, unlike the adjudicator, had Smart-Pig carried out further checks before granting
this loan, which is what I think it ought to have done. It wouldve believed, when taking into
account all of Mr Ps income (including earnings and student finance) as well as the
expenditure I can see from the bank statements that Mr P had enough disposable income to
be able to afford this repayment for this loan.
So I dont think Smart-Pig was wrong to approve Mr Ps last loan due to the significant
change in his circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr P and Smart-Pig didnt raise any new points or provide any new evidence after 
receiving my provisional decision. In light of this I see no reason to depart from the findings 
that I made in the provisional decision. 
So I still think Smart-Pig was wrong to have provided Mr P with loans 2  4 and Ive set out 
below what it needs to do to put things right.
 
Putting things right
Refund all interest, fees and charges on loans 2-4.
Add 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr P, calculated from
the date Mr P originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.Remove any adverse information about loans 2-4 from Mr Ps credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Smart-Pig should
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I partly uphold Mr Ps 
complaint.
FCL Consumer Finance Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman