DRN-2228446
The complaint
Mr R complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited wouldnt agree to him rejecting a faulty car.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr R acquired a second-hand car costing £12,240 funded by a conditional sale 
agreement. The car was some seven years old and had a recorded mileage of 75,377.
Shortly afterwards Mr R received an advisory from the manufacturer about the cambelt. He 
complained to Moneybarn that the cambelt hadnt been serviced before the sale and he 
thought the car had been in an accident as there were cracks showing on the boot. 
Moneybarn rejected the complaint and said the cambelt was a serviceable item and there 
was no evidence it had failed. It said it had carried out a HPI check and there was nothing to 
show the car had been in an accident. It said that if it had been in a minor accident this 
wouldnt show on the check. It added that it was open to Mr R to have been satisfied with the 
condition of the bodywork prior to sale, though given the age of the car some marks were to 
be expected.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr R said he hadnt been offered a full 
service history by the dealer and every so often smoke comes out of the exhaust. He only 
discovered the damage to the bodywork when he cleaned the car and he believed it had 
been in an accident. 
He said he had asked the dealer about the cambelt and he had been told that it had been 
replaced. He believed it should be replaced after 100,000 miles or five years. He added that 
in August the dealer had offered to let him reject the car. He supplied the manufacturers 
record of the service history which only included work done by authorised garages.
Our investigator spoke to the dealer. She was told that if it was aware the car had been 
involved in an accident it would have been sold at auction. The dealer said that the 
salesman wouldnt have commented on the cambelt as he would have had no way of 
knowing if it had been replaced. Often this was done at a non-approved garage and so 
wouldnt be recorded. He said that the cambelt should be replaced at 120,000 miles or five 
years. It had no knowledge of the boot damage which was to do with the removal of a tow 
bar. This would have been done by a previous owner.
Our investigator said there was no evidence that would allow her to conclude the dealer had 
said the cambelt had been replaced. It was possible that it had been done by a third party 
garage and not recorded on the manufacturers system. Mr R had been able to drive the car 
for some 2,500 miles before raising the issue with Moneybarn and had not encountered a 
problem with the cambelt.
She referred to the photo Mr R had submitted showing scratches to the car which he said 
hadnt been apparent at the point of sale as dealer had buffed the car thereby hiding the 
marks. These only became apparent later.  Our investigator said that this was seven-year-
old car and minor defect would be expected as covered by the Consumer Credit Rights Act 
2015.She also thought the scratch where the tow bar had been removed would have been 
apparent at the point of sale. 
She had not been able to obtain a recording of the call during which Mr R said he had been 
told he could reject the car. However, she didnt believe there were grounds for rejection.
Mr R didnt agree and said his complaint had been misunderstood. He said he hadnt said 
anything about a tow bar being removed. He said the filler had blown due to it being repaired 
badly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I appreciate that Mr R was disappointed with his car and while I have every sympathy with 
him, I do not believe I can uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
Mr R has said that our investigator has misunderstood his complaint and I asked him to 
clarify his concerns in writing to avoid any further misunderstanding. He suggested a phone 
call but given the alleged misunderstanding that had arisen during previous calls I requested 
his comments in writing, even if he asked a friend or family member to assist. No further 
information has been supplied.
It seems that there are two main issues, the cambelt and the damage to the bodywork. On 
the matter of the cambelt the manufacturer recommends that it is changed after 120,000 
miles or five years. That means the cambelt should have been changed before the point of 
sale. The manufacturers service record is not complete which suggest that the car has been 
service by non-authorised garages. This is not unusual, especially in a car of this age.
There is no record which shows whether the cambelt has been changed or not. Mr R has 
said a friend of his says it hasnt been, but I have no independent evidence to say one way or another. I cannot say if the car was advertised as having had the cambelt changed, but I 
would be very surprised if that level of detail was mentioned. 
Nor can I say what was said by the salesman during the course of the sale. Mr R, after his 
initial complaint was made, said that he had asked specifically about the cambelt and had 
been told it had been done. The dealer says it wouldnt have said this. On balance, I dont 
believe I have enough evidence to say that Mr R was misled. I can see that the car passed 
its MOT in November 2020 having done 84,728 miles so I believe Mr R has been able to 
make use of it. His recent emails suggest he hasnt had the cambelt replaced.
On the matter of the damage to the bodywork I have noted the photos provided by Mr R. 
These show several cracks close to the number plate. It is possible they were polished at the 
time of sale and that Mr R didnt notice them. If that is the case then it suggests that they are 
not substantive. If they are significant then I consider it more likely than not that they would 
have been visible at the point of sale.
In any event, as the car was some seven years old and scratches and marks are to be 
expected.  Mr R has suggested the marks are getting worse but hasnt provided further 
evidence. I believe he doesnt want to risk any further damage. 
So, while there is some damage I dont consider it such that rejection is merited. Nor can I 
say that there is sufficient evidence to allow me to conclude the car was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman