DRN-2098894
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the amount Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has paid to 
settle his car insurance claim. 
Any reference to Admiral includes their agents. 
What happened
In May 2019, Mr A was involved in a car accident. He made a claim under his policy which 
was accepted by Admiral and it was decided that the car should be written off and 
considered a total loss. 
To settle the claim, Admiral valued the cars pre-accident market value at £35,740. Mr A 
disagreed with this amount. He felt the car was worth more given its additional features. Mr 
A bought the car in 2017 but he said, when it was manufactured in 2016, it had 
approximately £26,000 worth of factory fitted extras added. He said he felt Admiral hadnt 
sufficiently taken into account these extras meaning he would be left with a financial shortfall 
and unable to replace the car with a similar specification for the amount of money offered by 
them.
Mr A complained to Admiral. They said that when valuing the car they had taken into 
account the cars additional features and mileage at the time of the accident. They had 
referred to motor trade guides which gave valuations of £35,590, £34,900 and £35,740. 
They also said they had instructed an independent report and this valued the car at £35,050. 
Taking all this into account, Admiral determined the final market value was £35,740, which 
was the highest of all the valuations. So they didnt agree to increase the offer made to Mr A.
During this time, Mr A arranged for two independent reports which valued the car at £50,000 
and £45,000. He also provided online adverts and an invoice for a friends car who had paid 
£40,000 for the same model car with similar additional features. However Admiral didnt 
change their mind about their valuation. 
Unhappy with Admirals response, Mr A referred the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. They said they didnt believe 
Admiral and the trade guides provided a fair reflection of the value of the car and decided a 
more reasonable valuation should be £40,000.  
Admiral disagreed and said they had relied on the trade guides and an independent 
inspection report when determining the cars market value. In relation to the cars additional 
features, they said these had been taken into consideration but they dont hold their value 
from when the car was new.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was referred to me to decide. I 
contacted both parties to explain that my provisional decision was that I intended not to 
uphold Mr As complaint. This was because I thought the valuations provided by the trade 
guides were most reliable. I invited both parties to send their comments to me. Mr A said it 
isnt possible to get a car with the same specification as his own for £35,000, it would cost at 
least £50,000. He provided online adverts and further copies of both independent inspection 
reports he had arranged. He also said he had been treated unfairly by Admiral and he was in 
a worse off position financially because of the accident.
Admiral maintained their position and said they have valued Mr As car in line with the 
expectations of our service and provided the highest stand-alone valuation including all the 
valued extras made available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At this point, I think its helpful to explain that our service cant give an exact value of Mr As 
car. Instead, we consider if the amount offered by the insurer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain 
why.
Where a car has been damaged, Admirals terms and conditions say:
If we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the car or   
 items claimed.
The policy terms define market value as: 
The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and 
condition. Based on market prices at the time of the loss
This means Admiral will pay the value of the car immediately before the accident which, in 
this case, theyve determined to be £35,740. Admiral referred to trade guides to obtain a 
value for the car. The guides gave different figures, which isnt unusual. Even so, Admiral 
also obtained an independent report. We would use a similar approach and the same trade 
guides to help decide if a settlement offer is fair when valuing second hand vehicles. 
We check motor trade guides and consider whether Admiral has made a reasonable offer in 
line with them. These are used for valuing second hand cars. We find these guides to be 
persuasive evidence of market value, mostly because their valuations are based on 
nationwide research and likely sales figures. I consider them more reliable than individual 
adverts because cars often dont sell for the advertised price.
As mentioned above, Admiral said they checked three trade guides and instructed an 
independent assessor when determining the market value. They then used the higher figure 
of the three guides when making its settlement offer for the claim. Similar to the investigator, 
Ive checked the guides and included the cars additional features such as the upgraded 
entertainment system, lighting, leather interior, etc. I also arranged for one of the trade 
guides to provide a bespoke valuation. These checks found that Admirals offer was within 
the range of the valuations provided by the guides. So I dont consider Admiral has acted 
unfairly in reaching the value it has. Im not ignoring what Mr A has said about the cars 
additional features but these either didnt increase the overall market value or did so 
marginally. I accept Mr As car had many additional features but it is worth noting it is not 
uncommon for them to lose their value soon after manufacture so it may not substantially 
impact the market value of a car.Mr A says a similar car cant be bought for the sum Admiral has offered. Hes provided two 
independent inspections reports, an invoice for his friends car with a similar specification 
and online adverts to support this. Admiral has also provided online adverts.
The adverts provided by Mr A showed similar cars selling for £42,875, £41,994 and £40,000. 
Meanwhile Admirals adverts showed similar cars advertised at prices in line with the guides. 
Its difficult to pin point a car that is a like-for-like comparison as Mr As car because the 
additional features, if any at all, vary greatly from one car to the next. Also, there is no 
guarantee the cars sell for these prices - there is often room for negotiation between the 
seller and any potential buyer which often means that the asking price isnt always the 
selling price - sometimes the difference can be thousands of pounds. The significant range 
in prices highlights how much online advertised prices can vary which illustrates why they 
cant always be reliable. 
Both independent reports provided by Mr A make reference to checking the trade guides 
however their reports have determined the car to be worth £50,000 and £45,000 
respectively. Based on the valuation given by this particular guide, Im not persuaded by the 
reasons in the independent reports as to how theyve reached a valuation that is so 
significantly higher than the guide. I also note that the reports say theyve based their 
valuations on factors such as scaling the value of the car back from previous dates and 
depreciation. But what Admiral is required to pay is the market value of the car at the date of 
the accident. Because of this, I dont find the reports supplied by Mr A to be persuasive 
evidence that the market value of the car is wrong.
Although Mr As car had several manufacturer fitted options, I dont consider it to be a rare or 
classic car so I believe it was reasonable for Admiral to rely on the trade guides when 
determining the market value. As mentioned above, I have carefully considered all the 
evidence and in my opinion, I am more persuaded by the valuations given by the guides. I 
say this because these valuations are based on extensive data from across the U.K about 
the national average of likely sales price for cars similar to Mr As so I find this is likely to be 
more reliable. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Admirals settlement offer for the market value 
of Mr As car at the time of its loss was fair according to our approach and the policys terms 
and conditions. So I dont require Admiral to increase this. 
I appreciate Mr A will be disappointed by my decision and he has said he intends to take this 
matter to court. But this decision brings to an end what we can do for Mr A at our service. I 
understand Admiral may have already paid the above amount to Mr A as an interim payment 
but, if it hasnt, Mr A should contact them if he now wishes to accept this amount. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2020.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman