DRN-4222430
The complaint
Mr B complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) has unfairly declined a claim 
under his legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. And hes unhappy with the solicitor RSA 
appointed to deal with his legal claim.
Any reference to RSA includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill summarise whats 
happened. 
Mr B sought to use his LEI policy to pursue a legal claim against a contractor for 
alleged poor workmanship. 
On receipt of the claim, RSA referred the matter to a panel solicitor (who Ill refer to 
as S) for a prospects of success assessment. 
Initially, it seems S said the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success and 
advised RSA the respondent had offered to settle the dispute. S later said the claim 
didnt enjoy prospects of success, but that if Mr B provided certain evidence, it would 
reassess the claim. 
In early December 2021, S told RSA a letter had been sent to the respondent and it 
was awaiting a reply. The position remained the same in March 2022. 
In May 2022, S provided a legal opinion which confirmed that because Mr B hadnt 
provided enough evidence to support his legal claim, there wasnt prospects of 
success. 
In June 2022, Mr B provided some information, but it didnt change S legal opinion.  
S subsequently made RSA aware Mr B had complained about S handling of his legal 
dispute and that he considered RSA responsible for Ss action because it had 
appointed S.  
RSA advised Mr B that it was entitled to rely on S legal advice and if he wanted to 
challenge S opinion he could provide his own legal opinion or new information for S 
to consider. Overall, though, RSA was satisfied it had handled Mr Bs claim fairly.
Unhappy Mr B brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
didnt uphold it. 
Because Mr B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
Its important to clarify Im not considering Mr Bs concerns about S and the time it 
took to deal with his claim. S, as a solicitor, is regulated by an independent body and 
its conduct and professionalism isnt something this Service can comment on. 
The issue here is whether it was reasonable for RSA to decline Mr Bs claim on the 
basis it didnt have reasonable prospects of success. 
The starting point in determining this is the policy document which says there isnt 
cover for any claim where there is not a reasonable chance of you winning the case 
and achieving a reasonable outcome.
Because RSA isnt a legal expert, a prospects of success assessment should be 
completed by a qualified lawyer with the legal knowledge and expertise to advise on 
whether the case is likely to succeed in court.
Ive seen evidence which confirms the legal opinion given by S has been verified by a 
suitably qualified solicitor. And in the absence of there being anything obviously 
wrong with the legal advice, Im satisfied its reasonable for RSA to rely on it. 
RSA has explained as the legal claim doesnt enjoy prospects of success it wont be 
able to fund Mr Bs claim or appoint an alternative panel solicitor. Im satisfied thats 
reasonable in the circumstances as, as it stands, the policy terms havent been met 
and so Mr B doesnt have a valid claim. 
RSA has told Mr B what his options are going forwards  namely, provide a legal 
opinion from a suitably qualified legal professional to challenge S opinion or provide 
new information which S hasnt previously considered. And I consider this to be 
reasonable in the circumstances. So, Ill leave it with Mr B to decide if he wants to do 
this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman