DRN-2823859
The complaint
Ms F complains that Santander UK Plc declined an international transfer and blocked her 
account whilst abroad.
 
What happened
Ms F has told us that she had to take a drip to another country following the death of her 
mother. Whilst abroad, restrictions on international travel came into effect because of the 
pandemic and she was unable to return. 
Ms F used her online banking facility to instruct a transfer to an account in the country she 
was visiting. But Santanders fraud prevention systems picked up the payment for further 
checks. Santander initially sent Ms F a text message with a code to authorise the transfer 
but, a short time later, declined it. Santander also applied a block to Ms Fs online banking 
facility and future automated payments. 
Ms Fs partner remained in the UK and has told us he tried to work with Santander to resolve 
the situation. Ms F was told she could contact the fraud department using the mobile number 
registered to her account. But Ms F has explained her mobile phone provider didnt have call 
roaming in place in the country she was visiting so she couldnt comply. 
To ensure Ms F had funds available, her partner carried out a transfer from their joint 
account. 
Ms F complained but Santander didnt agree any errors had been made. Santander said that 
Ms Fs debit card still worked and that her joint account remained fully active. 
The complaint was referred to this service and passed to an investigator. They thought 
Santander had acted in line with the account terms when blocking the payment in question. 
The investigator thought Santander had dealt with the complaint fairly, so didnt ask it to do 
anything else. On her behalf, Ms Fs partner (Mr S) responded to say they tried to resolve 
the situation with Santander without success. Mr S also said the situation had caused an 
unfair level of distress to Ms F whilst she was abroad and concerned about the impact of the 
pandemic. As Ms F didnt accept the investigators view, her complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upsetting and stressful this situation was for Ms F. I understand she was 
abroad and had to extend her stay unexpectedly after travel restrictions came into effect. Mr 
S has told us the transfer was attempted to ensure Ms F had access to funds while she was 
unable to return to the UK and that she was concerned about having to pay for medical care 
whilst abroad. 
Whilst I dont doubt what Ms F has told us, I have to balance that against Santanders 
obligation to protect its customers funds and the relevant account terms. Santanders 
account terms allow it to hold a payment for further checks and block account services if it 
has concerns over fraudulent activity. Santander wont specifically say what caused the 
fraud alert, but I understand the transfer was instructed via online banking using a foreign IP 
address. The transfer wasnt in line with normal account activity and Im satisfied 
Santanders systems highlighted it for further checks. 
The payment was declined a short time after Santander sent Ms F a text message. Whilst 
Santander did send Ms F a text message, Im satisfied its account terms allow it to decline a 
payment and block certain services until it can carry out further security checks. Santander 
gave Ms F a number she could call but said she had to use the number registered on her 
bank account. As Ms Fs mobile phone provider didnt allow calls from the country she was 
visiting, that step wasnt possible. Its clear Ms Fs options for reactivating her account were 
limited and I dont doubt how stressful the situation was for her. But I think that largely 
reflects the difficult circumstances being experienced generally as a result of the pandemic 
rather than an error by Santander. 
I also think its reasonable to note that whilst Ms Fs transfer didnt go through, Mr S was 
able to successfully send her funds a short time later. So Ms F wasnt left stranded without 
access to funds and her joint account remained fully operational throughout. I also think its 
reasonable to note that whilst online access was blocked, Ms F was still able to use her debit 
card. So she was still able to access funds held in her account, albeit in a more limited way. 
Im sorry to disappoint Ms F but I havent found that Santander made an error by declining 
the transfer and blocking her online banking facility. Im satisfied it acted in line with the 
account terms after it was unable to verify the payment was genuine. Mr S has confirmed 
another transfer was made to ensure Ms F had funds available which limited the overall 
impact. Whilst I understand how stressful the situation was, I havent found that Santander 
treated Ms F unfairly. As Im satisfied Santander dealt with Ms Fs complaint fairly, Im not 
telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman