DRN-1153643
Complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out with a 
mortgage in 2004 and then with a further advance on that mortgage in 2008. Miss   H says 
Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling the PPI, Nationwide had to make it clear to Miss H that she had a choice about 
it. But Miss H says it wasnt made clear to her that the PPI was optional, rather than 
compulsory.
2004 sale
Nationwide has sent us a copy of Miss Hs application form for the mortgage. This included a 
section on PPI with boxes to be ticked to select the type of cover Miss H wanted, or to say 
cover wasnt required. And the boxes to select accident and sickness cover with a benefit for 
12 months have been ticked.
Nationwide has also sent us a copy of a letter sent to Miss H confirming her application had 
been agreed in principle, which also said she had applied for PPI. And its sent us a copy of 
a PPI policy schedule sent to Miss H, which set out the cover and selected and confirmed 
the policy was free for the first 12 months.
Based on this, I think Nationwide did make it clear to Miss H that she had a choice about the 
policy. And that Miss H chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
2008 sale
Nationwide says the policy was sold over the phone. And its sent us a copy of its record of 
the PPI quote from that call, which it says shows the cost and benefit discussed and that 
Miss H agreed to proceed with the cover.
Nationwide has also sent us a copy of a PPI schedule sent to Miss H, which confirmed the 
cover and how much it would cost. And the cover on the schedule matches the record of the 
PPI quote.
Based on this, I think its likely Nationwide did make it clear to Miss H that she had a choice 
about the PPI. And that she chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
Both salesI havent seen clear evidence that Nationwide gave Miss H any personalised advice about 
the PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to her. This means Nationwide didnt have 
to check if the PPI was right for Miss H. But it did have to make sure she got the information 
she needed to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policies 
couldve paid out for longer than Miss H has told us she wouldve been entitled to full sick 
pay. And they wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on any savings or other means she 
had to make her mortgage repayments if she wasnt earning, so she couldve used these for 
other expenses. So the policy could have been useful for Miss H if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Miss H off taking it out.
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide needs to give Miss H some of the commission 
she paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Miss Hs mortgage was 
a regulated mortgage, they dont apply. So Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the 
commission Miss H paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2020.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman