DRN-3897097
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with Santander UK Plcs handling of his credit card account.
What happened
In his email to us shortly after bringing his complaint about Santander, Mr P set out his 
complaint as having three main parts:
1. Information recorded on his credit file
2. Problems using his card  particularly relating to cash withdrawals
3. Santanders handling of a call on 27 January 2022. 
Information recorded on his credit file
Santander has recorded late payment markers on Mr Ps credit file. Mr P has explained that 
he is disabled and living on benefits which are paid to him every 28 days, but the monthly 
payment due to his credit card doesnt fall in line with that schedule. This means he 
struggles to make payments by the due date. He agreed with Santander that it would move 
the payment date until the 25th of each month, but he says this wasnt done. This has led to 
the late payment markers as well as numerous charges and interest being levied. Mr P says 
Santander has refunded charges so theres no need to look into that, but he wants the late 
payment markers removed from his credit file.
Problems using his card  particularly relating to cash withdrawals
Mr P relies on friends to take him shopping and he likes to draw cash to pay them petrol 
money. But despite assurances from numerous members of staff that this wouldnt be a 
problem, Santander has prevented him from doing so. This has caused embarrassment and 
distress on several occasions.
Santanders handling of a call on 27 January 2022
Mr Ps email describes his unhappiness with the call handler who he feels was aggressive, 
poorly trained and threw the phone down on him. 
Santander has looked into each of the issues Mr P has raised with us and issued response 
letters. Ultimately though, it has refused to remove the late payment markers as it says these 
are a true reflection of how the account has been run. It has explained Mr P is unable to 
withdraw cash from the account as it is registered as being in persistent debt (PD). It has 
acknowledged that its staff were incorrect to tell him he could withdraw cash. Santander 
listened to the conversation Mr P complained about and didnt think the call handler had 
done anything wrong. It felt the call was ended appropriately.
Mr P didnt accept what Santander said and referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He felt Santander had taken fair, reasonable and proportionate 
steps in its handling of Mr Ps credit card account. He didnt ask Santander to do anything 
further. Santander accepted what our investigator said, but Mr P didnt. As there was no 
agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge from the outset that Mr P finds himself in a difficult position as a result of an 
accident which has left him disabled. This has meant he is reliant on benefits and is unable 
to work. He receives those benefits every 28 days, so the date he receives the money varies 
each month, making it difficult to budget for monthly payments such as those to his credit 
card. Ive kept this in mind while reaching my decision on Mr Ps complaint.
Information recorded on his credit file
Mr P says he reached agreement with Santander to make his payments on the 25th of each 
month as this would work with the cycle of his income. The staff he spoke with agreed to 
amend the payment dates. Ive listened to some calls in which it was agreed payment dates 
would be changed  for example, calls of 14 January 2021 and 5 March 2021. In each of 
those calls, the advisor explains the change wont be immediate but will take place in 
subsequent months. Mr P agreed he understood that.
Ive carefully looked at Mr Ps credit card statements from December 2020 to 
November 2022. The statements were generally produced between the 1st and 12th of each 
month, with due payment dates between the 26th of the month and 6th of the following month. 
So, he could have made his payments on or around the 25th of the month as hed requested 
and not incurred late payment fees or had markers placed on his credit file.
But unfortunately, he sometimes made his payment later than the date allowed on the 
statement, or more often, for less than the required minimum. Due to the way in which 
minimum payments are calculated (as set out on the statements themselves) this had the 
effect of increasing the minimum payment for the following month. While I appreciate this in 
turn made it difficult for Mr P to meet the payments through his income, the composition of 
minimum payments is set out on the statements and included in the terms and conditions of 
the account. Ive seen no evidence to suggest the minimum payments requested have been 
calculated incorrectly.
Santander has a duty to record data with credit reference agencies reflecting the actual 
performance of accounts held with it. In Mr Ps case, it has recorded late payment markers 
on a regular basis. Thats because the minimum payment was either not paid in full (so the 
sum expected was late), paid late or no payment was received.
While I appreciate Mr Ps strength of feeling on this matter, had he made the full minimum 
payments on the 25th of each month as he wished, Santander would not have recorded most 
of the markers it has. But as things stand, while I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed, I 
dont think Santander has made a mistake in recording information with the credit reference 
agencies.
Problems using his card  particularly relating to cash withdrawals
Mr P says he uses his card to withdraw cash to pay for parking and petrol for people who 
help him with his shopping etc. and various staff have assured him he would be able to. So I 
can understand his frustration with being unable to withdraw cash. But Santander has 
explained several times that the facility to withdraw cash has been blocked due to his 
account being in PD.The regulations set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA  the industry regulator) 
define an account as being in PD as one where, over a period of 18 months, a customer 
pays more in interest and charges than theyve paid off the principal balance. The FCA 
obliges lenders to contact account holders in this category when PD is first identified - at 18 
months, at 27 months and 36 months (at least). In the 36-month letter, lenders should ask 
the borrower for their repayment proposals.
Santander wrote to Mr P in line with the regulations regarding his account falling into PD. It 
sent the 36-month letter on 30 September 2021 asking for his proposals and setting out 
some options. It explained that In the meantime weve suspended the use of cash on your 
card - this stops you from using your card to withdraw cash from ATMs. Mr P didnt respond 
to that letter.
Its clear that Mr P spoke to several people regarding the use of his card and his wish to 
withdraw cash from it. He didnt always receive the correct answer which led to his card 
being replaced on one occasion. While I understand Mr Ps frustration at not being able to 
withdraw cash as he wished, it is clear Santander told him the facility to do so would be 
suspended while the account was in PD.
During conversations with Santanders collections and PD departments, Mr P was offered 
the opportunity to enter a payment arrangement using a direct debit which may have 
enabled the bank to reinstate the cash withdrawal facility. I can see he agreed to one 
arrangement to pay £102 on 19 February 2022, but this didnt enable cash withdrawals as a 
direct debit wasnt set up. In any event, the arrangement failed because the payment wasnt 
made.
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander had told Mr P that he would be unable to make cash 
withdrawals from his credit card from September 2021. Santanders letters of 4 January and 
20 April 2022 in response to his complaints also explain the situation. Its not clear why 
several of its staff didnt identify this when he called after having withdrawals refused, but I 
dont think that means he should have been allowed to withdraw the money. I dont think 
Santander has treated Mr P unfairly by preventing him from withdrawing cash for the 
reasons set out. 
Santanders handling of a call on 27 January 2022
Ive listened to the call Mr P complains about a few times. It wasnt easy to listen to as both 
the caller and Mr P spoke over each other for much of it.
The caller was from Santanders complaints handling team who had called Mr P to find out 
more about a complaint raised the previous day regarding a payment arrangement. Mr P 
wanted to talk about the previous complaints hed had with Santander, but the caller tried to 
focus the call on the new complaint as the previous ones had been resolved. The call went 
on in this vein for a little while until Mr P asked to speak with a manager. The caller put Mr P 
on hold while he contacted his manager, and then came back to Mr P explaining the 
manager had said it was something he could deal with. 
The caller tried to ask Mr P questions to find out more about the detail of the new complaint, 
but Mr P wanted to provide more background by talking about the previous complaints. This 
led to each party talking over the other again. The caller tried again to refocus the 
conversation by asking questions, but Mr P said a few times he would not listen to the caller. 
So, as the conversation wasnt progressing, the caller asked if there was anything else Mr P 
wished to discuss because there was no point continuing as the conversation wasnt going anywhere. Mr P asked again for a manager, but the caller reiterated the manager was happy 
for him to deal with the complaint. Mr P said he wasnt, so the caller said hed close the 
complaint, Mr P could refer it to us and ended the call.
The caller had warned Mr P that the conversation couldnt continue if he wanted to go over 
the old complaints  he was quite clear that he was only able to deal with a new complaint 
that had been raised the previous day. As Mr P was unwilling to engage with that without 
going over the previous complaints, I understand why the caller decided the best course of 
action was to end the call. I dont think this ought to have come as a surprise to Mr P as the 
caller had explained hed do so a couple of times. I dont think the caller threw the phone 
down as Mr P alleges  rather he simply ended an unproductive call after explaining thats 
what hed do. I dont think this was unreasonable. 
Summary 
I have every sympathy with the situation Mr P has found himself in following his accident. 
And I appreciate the difficulty caused by receiving a reduced income on a 28-day cycle 
rather than calendar monthly. But Santander has tried to assist Mr P by moving payment 
dates, refunding charges and interest and suggesting payment arrangements. Mr P has not 
met the minimum payment obligations on the account which has led to the late payment 
markers. I cant reasonably tell Santander to remove them.  
Santander has explained why Mr P has been unable to use his card to withdraw cash. Credit 
cards are a very expensive way of obtaining cash - Mr P has complained about this in the 
past. I dont think its unreasonable for Santander to block the facility for an account which is 
in PD.
As Ive explained, it was clear the conversation complained about was unlikely to progress 
the new complaint raised. I dont think it was unreasonable for the caller to end the call.
Overall, I dont think Santander has treated Mr P unfairly. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr P, but I dont uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman