DRN-2187006
Mr M complains that the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wrongly advised him to invest £50,000 
in a single fund which posed too great a level of risk given his circumstances  in 2012. The 
advisor failed to consider other more suitably low-risk and diversified products, including 
utilising his ISA allowance.
What happened
Mr M was 47 with no liabilities or dependents, and not working but planned to return to work. 
As a self-employed entrepreneur he was not entitled to any workplace benefits or pension. 
He was considering a property move and a possible private operation costing £8,000.
Mr M had just over £200,000 in various risk-free accounts including £100,000 in fixed-rate 
bonds. According to the advisors record, Mr Ms objectives were: 
The opportunity to get a better return on his investment than if the funds were in his 
bank account
Diversify away from bank accounts to give him the opportunity to grow his money
He said that he was happy to invest a lump sum and invest over the medium to long term 
and didnt want to draw an income from it at that point but wanted the flexibility to draw one 
in the future if he required.
RBS upheld his complaint, saying that it now felt Mr M should not have been recommended 
to take any risk with his money. But it had calculated that his investment had done better 
than keeping this money risk-free, based on a standard, no-risk returns formula. He was 
therefore not entitled to any compensation.
An investigator at this service also felt the recommended investment had been too risky but 
deemed that Mr M was prepared to take a modest risk with money. As such, RBS should 
calculate how much his money might have grown by if invested in a lower-risk product or 
products  and by using the standard low-risk formula recommended by this service. She 
also recommended it pay Mr M £100 of the trouble and inconvenience this issue had 
caused.
Mr Ms representative had argued that redress should be calculated using a medium-risk 
formula but did not dispute the investigators alternative proposal.
RBS did not agree with her view, and said:
Mr M had no job and an uncertain future including ongoing health issues which might 
require significant expenditure
While the money on deposit would have covered his shortfall for two years he would 
then have needed to draw on money in fixed-rate bonds
So the savings income he was receiving would eventually disappear
Mr M said he wanted to keep a large amount in savings as a nest egg and not tie this 
money up in a pension pot
He was an inexperienced investor, and while he was willing to put this money at risk 
this was not a sensible thing to do given his circumstances
It did not raise any objection to the £100 payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the reasons she outlined in her view, which I 
have only briefly summarised.
There is no dispute that the recommended investment (the Growth Fund) posed a medium 
level of risk and that this was too much a risk to Mr Ms money given his limited investment 
experience and overall circumstances. I agree with this. I therefore do not think it necessary 
to outline in detail why the recommendation was unsuitable. The sole issue to consider is 
whether Mr M should have been recommended a suitably low-risk investment or to keep his 
money in risk-free sources. 
Im satisfied that the advisors report made clear that Mr M was looking to take some risk 
with some of his money  and for the obvious reason that he considered the interest 
available at the time unsatisfactory. Given he had more than £200,000 in various savings 
products, I dont think it was surprising that he was willing to take a small risk with a quarter 
of this money.
I note that RBS accepts that this was Mr Ms intention but now argues this was not a 
sensible thing to do; hence its view that a risk-free redress calculation was appropriate. but I 
dont agree. The fact that Mr M actively wanted to take some risk with a modest portion of 
his money is important. The advisor made clear what this meant and Mr M chose to take 
such a risk (even though the recommended bond was too risky). I dont think its appropriate 
to simply ignore this evidence as RBS appears to have done.
I am also satisfied that Mr M was in a position to be able to take some risk with this portion of 
money, particularly if the charging structure did not penalise withdrawals in the early years 
(as was the case with the recommended bond). It was noted that Mr M was planning to 
return to work, understandably given he was just 47, described himself as an entrepreneur 
and told the advisor he did not intend to retire till 65. So it was not the case  as RBS argues 
 that he would be inevitably draining his savings to the point where hed urgently need this 
money. He had £150,000 in other accounts, £50,000 immediately available, the rest after 
two years.
If he had invested the £50,000 in a flexible and low risk product he could, if necessary, have 
made withdrawals when necessary if he didnt generate new income. Further, his possible 
£8,000 operation was a very small sum compared to his savings of more than £200,000, so I 
dont think this ought to have prevented him from investing some of his money.
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr M was prepared to take a modest risk with a quarter of his 
money and that it would have been appropriate for the advisor to recommend a low-risk 
investment rather than keep all this money in a savings account.
Putting things rightIn assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr M as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr Ms circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What RBS should do
To compensate Mr M fairly it should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
It should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay to Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
(as explained by the investigator)
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
for half the
investment:
FTSE UK 8% simple per
Flexible 
Investment 
PlansurrenderedPrivate Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; for 
the other half:date of 
investmentdate 
surrenderedyear on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of
average rate settlement
from fixed rate
bonds
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmarkTo arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, it should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, I will 
accept if it totals all those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of 
deducting periodically.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman