DRN-3666128
The complaint
Mr O complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) has given him an incorrect 
early settlement quote when he asked to settle his condition sale agreement.
What happened
In March 2021, Mr O was supplied with a car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The cars purchase price was £21,860 and after paying a deposit of £4,000, 
Mr O entered an agreement providing him with credit of £17,860 over 60 months. His 
monthly payments were £477.55.
In January 2022, Mr O contacted Moneybarn to enquire about settling the agreement early. 
He told us:
He asked Moneybarn for an early settlement figure on his car finance and was told 
hed need to pay £17076.08;
he expected the figure to be much lower because hed only borrowed £17,860 and 
had already made nine monthly payments of £477.55;
his payments totalled more than £4,000, yet his balance had reduced by less than 
£800;
Moneybarn didnt explain to him how the interest would be calculated, and the 
settlement figure is unfair and extortionate. Mr O wants a revised early settlement 
figure.
Moneybarn rejected this complaint. It said the early settlement figure was calculated in 
accordance with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. It explained that, 
in the early stages of a loan, a greater proportion of the monthly repayments are used to 
service the interest on the loan. As the overall debt decreases, the amount of interest 
accrued also decreases, so that in the case of later repayments, more of the monthly 
payment is put towards the capital debt resulting in zero balances for both the interest and 
the capital by the end of the term.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She explained that the 
Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 tell lenders how to calculate the 
settlement figure so that its fair for borrowers. She said shed reviewed what Moneybarn 
said and didnt think it had done anything wrong; there was nothing to suggest that 
Moneybarns calculations were wrong, or that it had treated Mr O unfairly.
Mr O disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says he wasnt told about the 
way in which his monthly payments would be apportioned.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, and Ill explain why.
Mr Os conditional sale agreement states that it is regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
The Consumer Credit Act covers several areas of consumer credit including the content and 
form of credit agreements and the procedures relating to default, termination and early 
settlement.
In relation to early settlement, the Consumer Credit Act says that settlement figures should 
be calculated using the rules set out in the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 
2004. Those are the rules that Moneybarn has confirmed that its applied in this case.
So, in cases of early settlement, if the customer wishes to pay off all or part of the credit 
agreement before the end of the term, they do not have to pay the full amount of interest 
stipulated in the agreement. Instead, the total amount of interest which would have been 
payable over the term is reduced by a statutory rebate.
From reviewing Mr Os comments, it seems to me that he may have based what he thinks is 
the correct settlement figure on a straight line interest calculation  where the amount of 
interest charged each month is exactly the same over the full term of the agreement. But this 
isnt the case.
The total interest charged under the agreement isnt applied equally each month. This is 
because the interest is calculated on the outstanding amount, so the interest proportion of 
each monthly payment varies  its higher in the case of the earlier monthly payments, and 
lower for the later monthly payments.
And although I can understand that Mr O had hoped to have repaid more of the outstanding 
debt, I simply havent seen any evidence that Moneybarn hasnt applied the early settlement 
calculations correctly and in accordance with the applicable regulations.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman