DRN-3045923
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains about the actions of The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS) regarding the management of its business loan accounts.
What happened
Bs directors previously ran another company, which Ill call N. In late 2007, N took out a 
£2.5m loan from RBS to assist with the purchase of a property. N also purchased an interest 
rate hedging product (IRHP) alongside the loan. In March 2008, at the directors request, the 
lending was assigned to B and the IRHP was novated to B.
Bs business ran into difficulties. During 2009, the bank appointed a specialist relationship 
manager and in October 2009 the management of the accounts was transferred to RBSs 
Global Restructuring Group (GRG).
In 2011, B entered administration and the property was sold to repay part of Bs debt. In 
2014 a liquidator was appointed. 
One of Bs directors (Ill refer to him as Mr R) brings the complaint on behalf of B, with the 
consent of the liquidator. The complaint is made up of a number of points as follows:
There were unreasonable costs of £4,700 when RBS appointed a professional valuer 
for the property.
RBS withheld the true value of the property until after the price was agreed with the 
vendor.
There were unreasonable fees when RBS obtained a third-party report on the 
business and the bank denied B access to parts of this report.
RBS was rude to Bs accountant when it insisted a third party take over.
The loan repayments were higher than were originally agreed.
A new relationship manager was appointed unfairly.
RBS refused to move the loan back to interest-only and offered an increased 
overdraft instead.
RBS failed to provide terms and conditions for the overdraft.
Account fees were unreasonable, including a £2,000 per month monitoring fee.
RBS changed its mind on how third-party monies borrowed from the directors family 
members would be applied. RBS insisted that the monies would be applied against 
personal guarantees, rather than to keep the business going, but B refused to agree 
to this. When B then sought a company voluntary agreement (CVA), RBS appointed 
a receiver.
RBS told B not to pay VAT because it was insolvent and this led the company to get 
into trouble with HMRC.
Meetings between November 2009 and July 2010 were unnecessary.
The bank required unreasonable notice of cleared funds ahead of payments.
The bank applied unreasonable pressure to sell the property and then sold it to its 
own internal business, West Register, when the former directors were in the process 
of buying it back.
The behaviour of the RBS staff was unreasonable.
Mr R also complains about sale of the IRHP and the impact of the IRHP payments on the 
company.
Our investigator noted that RBS didnt sell the IRHP to B. RBS sold the IRHP to N  the 
previous company  and N later novated it to B. As a result, he said we cant consider this 
part of the complaint.
 
The investigator looked in detail into each of the other aspects of Bs complaint. He 
concluded that RBS didnt need to do anything further. For most of the complaint points 
listed above, he thought the evidence didnt show that the bank had acted unreasonably or 
unfairly. For two aspects of the complaint (about not communicating the property valuation 
and the overdraft terms and conditions), he didnt think there was any loss caused to B. 
Mr R doesnt agree with the investigators findings. He says the IRHP was mis-sold and it 
caused the downfall of B, so we should look at it. 
Mr R has also submitted a number of press cuttings about the conduct of RBS and GRG, 
and about the problems suffered by the banks customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im sorry to tell Mr R that Ive come to the same conclusions as the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons.
First I should deal with the matter of the IRHP. Mr R argues that the mis-sale of the IRHP 
caused the failure of B, and that we should therefore consider it as part of Bs complaint. But 
B wasnt the company that bought the IRHP from RBS, so it wasnt RBSs customer in that 
transaction. The act or omission that B is complaining about occurred when B wasnt the 
customer in relation to that transaction. Put simply, B didnt buy the IRHP from RBS  rather, 
B obtained the IRHP from N, by novation. In any event, Bs liquidator and RBS have already 
reached an agreement regarding the IRHP payments made by B, including consequential 
loss, and the compensation has already been applied to reduce Bs debt. As this matter has 
already been settled between the parties, it wouldnt be right for me to consider it here.
Ill now consider the other complaint points as listed above.
Unreasonable costs when RBS appointed a professional valuer for the property
The lending was for more than £2m and RBS required the independent valuation for its 
assessment of the loan security. The valuation was an agreed condition of the loan. In the 
circumstances, I dont think the requirement was unreasonable. I agree with the investigator 
that the fee, which was less than 0.2% of the loan value and an even lower percentage of 
the property value, wasnt excessive. 
RBS withheld the true value of the property until after the price was agreed with the vendor
Given the passage of time, there is little contemporaneous evidence available about these 
events. But I understand that the professional valuation was greater than the price the 
customers paid for the property, so the asset they obtained was worth more at that time than the price they paid. I therefore dont think the customers suffered any loss as a result of the 
timing of the banks communication of the property value.
Unreasonable fees when RBS obtained a third-party report on the business and the bank 
denied B access to parts of this report
In 2010, B was suffering cash flow difficulties and the lending was in default. The bank 
sought the independent report in order to review the companys viability, as a condition of 
further support. B was consulted in advance and met with the third party. From the banks 
notes and Bs account statements it appears that the cost was £7,691 plus VAT, which was 
a fixed fee agreed in advance with B. Im satisfied that under the terms of Bs finance 
agreements, the bank was entitled to charge B for professional fees and costs arising in 
such circumstances. I dont think it was unreasonable for the bank to commission the report 
and to pass on the cost to B. 
My understanding is that the customers were shown all the significant parts of the report 
except a page of conclusions and recommendations, which were about options for the 
banks strategy. This was a report prepared for the bank rather than the customer, and Bs 
directors had agreed in the engagement letter that not all of it would be shown to the 
customer. The bank has apologised to B if this wasnt clearly explained at the time. The bank 
continued to support B after receiving the report, so I dont think the company was 
disadvantaged by not seeing the page in question. I therefore dont think the bank needs to 
do anything further.
RBS was rude to Bs accountant when it insisted a third party take over
Given the financial circumstances at the time, I wouldnt say the appointment of a third-party  
accountant was unreasonable. I can imagine that the discussions may have been difficult, 
but there are no recordings or transcripts. In the absence of any supporting evidence, I cant 
reasonably say that the bank acted wrongly. 
The loan repayments were higher than were originally agreed
From the evidence Ive seen, in 2009 the bank made an adjustment to the loan repayment 
profile over the year, so that the repayments were increased in the months when the 
companys takings were higher and correspondingly reduced in the leaner months. It seems 
this was an attempt to help B match its loan repayments to its business cash flow. The effect 
over the whole year was neutral. I dont think the bank acted unreasonably or unfairly.
A new relationship manager was appointed unfairly
In my view a bank is entitled to organise the management of its work and staff in whichever 
way it considers best, as long as it treats its customers fairly. I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for the bank to appoint a new manager for Bs accounts. 
RBS refused to move the loan back to interest-only and offered an increased overdraft 
instead
B requested a switch to interest-only loan payments in October 2009 in order to meet 
increased outgoings on its IRHP. This prompted the bank to review Bs financing options. 
Later, in early 2010, RBS made recommendations to B for restructuring, which included a 
24-month interest-only facility. While it was conducting the review, the bank increased Bs 
overdraft facility so that it could meet its commitments in the short term. I dont think this was 
unreasonable or unfair.RBS failed to provide terms and conditions for the overdraft
When the bank temporarily increased Bs overdraft facility, it notified B but didnt send 
updated terms and conditions. I agree with the investigator that the omission caused B no 
loss. RBS has acknowledged the error and apologised to B, and I dont think the bank needs 
to do anything further.
Account fees were unreasonable, including a £2,000 per month monitoring fee
A £2,000 monthly fee was proposed at one point. But the bank says the fee was never 
charged, and B hasnt provided any evidence that it was paid. In the absence of any 
supporting evidence, my finding is that this fee wasnt charged.
Other fees mentioned by B appear to be for returned items charged at the standard tariff 
rate, so I dont think they were unreasonable. 
RBS changed its mind on how third-party monies borrowed from the directors family 
members would be applied. RBS insisted that the monies would be applied against personal 
guarantees, rather than to keep the business going, but B refused to agree to this. When B 
then sought a CVA, RBS appointed a receiver.
Ive seen no evidence of an agreement reached between the parties regarding the use of 
funds raised from third parties. It appears from bank and email records that there was 
discussion of a proposal in 2011 to use funds raised to reduce the directors guarantee 
liabilities, but the parties didnt come to an agreement. Mr R says the proposal was that the 
funds should be used both to support the business and reduce the directors guarantee 
liabilities. In any event, its clear that no agreement was reached, so I cant say that RBS 
went back on it.
RBS said it couldnt support the CVA proposal because it was too risky  it would have 
required a level of continued funding that wasnt acceptable to the bank. I think the bank was 
entitled to make that decision about whether to continue lending. The bank also said the 
CVA proposal indicated that B wasnt willing to work towards a solvent sale of the property in 
order to repay the debt, so the bank considered the only viable option was to appoint 
administrators. Before this, the bank had given B several months to make alternative 
proposals, without success. Given Bs deteriorating cash flow problems and the outstanding 
debt, I dont find that the banks action in appointing administrators in October 2011 was 
unreasonable. 
RBS told B not to pay VAT because it was insolvent and this led the company to get into 
trouble with HMRC
Theres no supporting evidence from B or the banks notes to show that RBS advised B not 
to pay its VAT. I note, however, that the bank at times took other actions to assist B in 
meeting its VAT payment obligations  for example, by prioritising the payment of VAT 
cheques and agreeing a temporary overdraft excess. I dont think the bank acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in respect of Bs VAT payments.
Unnecessary meetings between November 2009 and July 2010
B was experiencing business difficulties at the time and restructuring proposals were under 
discussion. In the circumstances I cant reasonably conclude that it was wrong for RBS to 
request further meetings with the directors.
The bank required unreasonable notice of cleared funds ahead of paymentsB had cash flow problems and its routine payments often exceeded its credit limits, but I 
havent seen any evidence of unreasonable demands by the bank for notice of cleared 
funds. 
I can see that at the end of December 2010 and the beginning of January 2011, there was a 
specific request from the bank for information about how Bs forthcoming payments would be 
covered. At that time Bs account was over its maximum agreed excess and substantial 
payments were due. Given the circumstances, I dont think that was an unreasonable 
request.
The bank applied unreasonable pressure to sell the property and then sold it to its own 
internal business, West Register, when the former directors were in the process of buying it 
back
Bs business and financial problems meant that it couldnt meet its debt repayments and it 
was continuously in excess of its overdraft limit. No agreement was reached about 
restructuring the companys debt. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable of 
the bank to conclude in January 2011 that the property would need to be sold to pay down 
the debt. 
RBS gave B a reasonable period to find a buyer or bring alternative repayment proposals. 
The property was put in the market in May 2011. As described above, when the bank 
became aware of the CVA proposal in September 2011, it decided to appoint a firm of 
administrators (whose advisory services B had already used). The bank didnt believe that B 
could trade out of its difficulties or that the company was working towards a solvent sale of 
the property. 
An offer for the property came from West Register in July 2011 and the sale was completed 
at the end of December 2011. Earlier that month, there had been an approach from another 
interested party working with Bs directors and the administrators requested further 
information, but they didnt receive it, so the sale to West register went through. In any event, 
the sale of the property was the professional responsibility of the administrators, not the 
bank.
The behaviour of the RBS staff was unreasonable
From the correspondence and records submitted by the parties, Ive seen no supporting 
evidence of unreasonable or inappropriate behaviour by bank staff towards B. Of course I 
didnt witness the meetings and conversations between the parties, and its likely that there 
were communications that werent recorded. But in the absence of any contemporaneous 
evidence, I cant reasonably say the bank did anything wrong. 
In summary
I know that Mr R will be disappointed by my decision and I recognise the strength of his 
feelings about the complaint. I realise that the loss of their business has had a huge impact 
on the directors lives. 
I find, however, that on most points in the complaint, RBS hasnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards B. In the case of the communications problems over the property 
valuation and the overdraft terms and conditions, there was no loss caused to B.
Ive carefully read all the press cuttings sent in by Mr R, but I dont find that they contain any 
additional evidence that would affect my decision about Bs complaint.Having looked at all the evidence and arguments, I conclude that RBS doesnt need to do 
anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman