DRN-2634369
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Capital Home Loans Limited, trading as CHL Mortgages, 
unfairly increased their monthly mortgage payments a few months before the term expired. 
They say this is due to fees unfairly applied to their mortgage account. Theyd like these fees 
refunded.
What happened
CHL Mortgages wrote to Mr and Mrs K in March 2020. It said their monthly payments would 
increase. Mr and Mrs K say this is due to fees of £8,000 added to their account without them 
knowing. They say they cant afford the higher payments or to pay these fees.
Our investigator said we can only look into events that happened within the last six years. So 
we cant look into fees applied before this. Mr and Mrs K agreed.
Our investigator said the balance owed by Mr and Mrs K hadnt changed in March 2020. 
Fees, all of which had been applied more than six years before, had been included in the 
account balance for the last six years. The investigator said the only difference was that the 
letter Mr and Mrs K received from CHL Mortgages in March 2020 set out the contractual 
monthly payments separately from payments towards the fees. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree, saying their monthly payments had increased to clear 
unexplained fees. They said the investigator had failed to get an explanation for the fees or 
why their payments suddenly increased. Mr K said if theyd known about the fees before 
theyd have made a plan to pay them in advance, not at the end of the mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K took out a mortgage with CHL Mortgages in 1995. CHL Mortgages says the 
last time a fee was applied to their account was in 2013. CHL Mortgages provided account 
statements from 2012 onwards which show no fees applied after 2013. Whatever fees were 
applied before then formed part of the account balance.
Mr and Mrs K agreed that we wont look into the application of the fees as this happened 
more than six years before they made their complaint. 
From 2010 to early 2020 Mr and Mrs Ks monthly mortgage payments were about £400. 
CHL says this included an amount towards repayment of the fees balance. In March 2020 
CHL wrote to Mr and Mrs K saying thered been a change of interest rates and their 
contractual monthly payment would change to about £90. The letter went on to say that if 
there was an arrears or fees balance theyd need to make additional payments to make sure 
this was paid within the remaining term. CHL Mortgages told Mr and Mrs K they needed to 
pay £560 each month to clear the mortgage balance (including the fees) by the time the term 
was due to expire in late 2020. Mr and Mrs K only made the contractual monthly payment 
and the fees balance remains outstanding.
Mr K says theyd have arranged to pay the fees sooner if theyd known about them. I 
appreciate that CHL Mortgages might not have provided a breakdown of their account 
balance or their monthly payment. However, I think its likely Mr and Mrs K were aware of 
their mortgage balance, which included the fees. And I think CHL Mortgages was clear in 
2020 that theyd need to pay more than £90 each month to clear their balance by late 2020.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think CHL Mortgages made an error when it told Mr 
and Mrs K they have an unpaid fees balance. I dont think I can fairly and reasonably require 
CHL Mortgages to write off the fees balance or refund fees already paid.
Mr and Mrs K say theyd find it difficult to pay the higher monthly payments or pay the fees. 
Id urge Mr and Mrs K to remain in contact with CHL Mortgages with the aim of agreeing a 
suitable and affordable arrangement to pay the outstanding balance. I would remind CHL 
Mortgages of its duty to treat Mr and Mrs K fairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman