DRN-3387585
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about a legal expenses insurance claim that was turned down by U K 
Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line.
All references to U K Insurance include their claims handlers and agents.
What happened
Mr R made a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a claim about a 
property hed inherited. He said that in January 2021 he discovered the previous owner of 
the property- his late Mother- had been deliberately defrauded by the parish council, which 
led to the property being deprived of direct access to a road. Mr R says that this in turn led to 
the value of the property being significantly reduced and that the value of his inheritance had 
also reduced because some of it was used to pay construction costs to give outside access 
to the property.
U K Insurance considered the claim and concluded that it wasnt covered under the policy. 
They said there wasnt an insured event under the property section of the policy and the 
Inheritance disputes section of cover also didnt extend to the situation Mr R found himself 
in. In addition, U K Insurance went on to say that even if there was an insured event, there 
wasnt cover because Mr Rs dispute started considerably before the policy began in 
December 2020.
Our investigator considered Mr Rs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr R 
doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. The Protecting your property section of the policy 
covers costs for the following claims arising out of owning or living in your home:
legal nuisance
trespass to your home
physical damage to your home
The claim Mr R wishes to make doesnt appear to fall within any of these heads of cover 
because his claim isnt for nuisance, trespass or physical damage, so Ive gone on to 
consider the Inheritance disputes section of the policy that Mr R feels his claim falls under. 
It says:
Inheritance disputes
We will cover the costs of claims for a dispute over something left to you in a will.
X We dont cover claims arising from or relating to:
disputes with executors about the management of the estate
disputes between you and another beneficiary regarding the administration or disposal of 
any item left to you in a will
the negligent drafting of a will
situations where a will has not been made or concluded, or cant be traced (this is called 
intestacy).
Mr R says the claim hes made is covered under this section because the dispute hes 
engaged in concerns something left to him in a will- namely his late Mothers property. 
Conversely U K Insurance says this cover doesnt extend to Mr Rs situation because his 
claim is about a land dispute with the council. They go on to say that the fact that the 
property was left to Mr R in a will doesnt make it an inheritance dispute.
Ive thought about what both parties have said. In particular, Mr R has said this isnt simply a 
land dispute against the Council, rather its a claim in fraud that arises out of a fraud to his 
late Mother and that he in turn inherited the property. He also says that the dispute he wants 
cover for is about something left to him in a will- as noted by the policy term- so his claim 
should be covered.
I can understand why Mr R feels his claim should be covered. The claim hes making is after 
all a dispute about something left to him in a will. But I dont think the policy term can be read 
in isolation. Rather the term appears immediately below the title Inheritance disputes. So, I 
take the view that the dispute itself needs to be an inheritance dispute. And I dont believe 
that just because Mr R inherited the property, or that the fraud hes alleging might have 
taken place during his late Mothers lifetime means this is an inheritance dispute. The 
dispute itself concerns access to the property and allegations of fraud against the council for 
previously representing theyd made a mistake about owning the land surrounding it then Mr 
R later discovering this wasnt true and that the Council had misrepresented the position. 
This in turn has impacted on the access available to the property itself. There is nothing 
specific, other than the property being inherited that identifies it as an inheritance dispute. 
Because of this I dont think its one that attracts cover under this term. 
When reaching this conclusion, Mr R has referred to the policy exclusions which he feels 
wouldnt in any event cover a straightforward inheritance dispute. He asked U K Insurance 
and the investigator what sort of situations the policy might cover if it didnt extend to a claim 
like his. U K Insurance gave the example of someone claiming Mr R shouldnt have been left 
his late Mothers property in her will. Mr R has said this sort of situation would be excluded 
because that sort of claim would be brought by another beneficiary. But I dont think thats 
necessarily true. Its common for inheritance claims to be brought by parties who arent 
current beneficiaries to a will, but think they ought to have been for one reason or another. 
That was the sort of example U K Insurance gave Mr R, no doubt from its experience of such 
claims. And I think the policy was in place to provide cover in those sorts of circumstances. I 
appreciate the Inheritance disputes section of cover contains a number of exclusions, but 
as the investigator said, its up to U K Insurance to decide what sorts of claims theyre 
prepared to offer cover for. In the case of Mr Rs policy, the cover he took out does offer 
cover in some specific circumstances but not for the situation hes currently claiming for. I 
dont think this means that he and other policyholders who have taken out this sort of policy 
have been defrauded because theres no cover available for inheritance disputes at all. 
Rather I think the cover offered is limited to certain situations but not the one that Mr R finds 
himself in.Because I dont think Mr Rs complaint is one which falls within cover, I havent gone on to 
consider whether the problem hes complaining about started before his legal expenses 
insurance policy was in place because it wouldnt make a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint.
 
I appreciate Mr R will find my decision disappointing but for the reasons set out above I dont 
think U K Insurance acted unfairly in turning down his claim.
For clarity, I havent considered whether Mr R will have the benefit of the cover hes looking 
for under the site insurance he took out. As our investigator said, hell need to make a claim 
on that policy first to see what the insurers position is. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman