DRN-3352447
The complaint
Mr L has complained that CarCashPoint Limited (CCP) was irresponsible to have 
agreed credit for him.
What happened
CCP provided Mr L with four loans  three in 2016 and one in 2018. Ive summarised 
some of the information CCP provided about these loans in the following table.
Start Capital /Total Repayment Term
Loan 1 24/08/2016 £560 / £2,577 £16.5 weekly 156 weeks
Loan 2 27/09/2016 £560 / £2,173 £14 weekly 156 weeks
Loan 3 01/11/2016 £1,860 / £7,887 £50.50 weekly 156 weeks
Loan 4 29/06/2018 £660 / £1,848 £103 monthly 18 months
These were all log book loans, in other words they were granted on the basis that 
Mr L provided CCP with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr L didnt make 
his loan repayments CCP could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of his 
vehicle.
I understand that Loans 1 and 2 ran concurrently and that Loan 3 was used in part to 
repay the two earlier loans. Mr L incurred late payment charges from the outset with his 
third loan and fell into arrears. He repaid this loan monthly but missed payments in some 
months in 2017 and never managed to clear his arrears. Loan 3 was settled early with a 
lump payment in March 2018. CCP agreed a fourth loan for Mr L a few months later. It 
seems this was managed in the same way  Mr L incurred late payment fees within a few 
months and fell into arrears, which he didnt manage to clear until the loan was repaid in 
full by June 2020.
Mr L said that CCP was irresponsible to have lent to him because it would have seen 
that the loans were unaffordable, had it carried out proper checks beforehand.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint and upheld it in part because they 
found that CCP was irresponsible to have agreed Loans 2, 3 and 4 for Mr L. They 
recommended that CCP refund all interest and charges Mr L had paid on these loans 
and remove adverse information relating to them from his credit file.
CCP didnt agree with our investigators conclusion about Loans 2 and 3 but did accept 
their conclusion regarding Loan 4. CCP offered to resolve Mr Ls complaint by paying 
compensation for this loan. Mr L declined this offer and said Loan 3 was a consolidation 
of loans 1 and 2 and a new loan 3. This due to my circumstances should not have 
happened. CCP could see I had missed payments on loans 1 and 2 so should never have 
consolidated then with a new loan with higher monthly payments over a longer period. 
The loan was never going to be sustainable. I struggled to pay loan 3 - I had to borrow off 
friends and family to maintain it. I missed priority bills so I wouldn't lose my vehicle and 
CCP knew this.
The case came to me, as an ombudsman, to review and resolve. I focused on Loans 2 
and 3 in my decision as it seemed Loans 1 and 4 were no longer in dispute. I provisionally 
found that CCP was irresponsible when it lent to Mr L a third time, and I sent out a 
provisional decision on 1 February 2022 explaining why I planned to uphold his complaint 
about this loan. I proposed that CCP refund Mr L what he paid above the capital he 
borrowed for Loan 3 and for Loan 4 also, as it had accepted our investigators conclusions 
about this lending decision. 
Mr L accepted my provisional conclusions but CCP didnt respond. This is my final 
decision on the matter and will be legally binding on both parties should Mr L accept it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for CCP but, having looked at everything again 
and having no further information to consider, my provisional conclusions remain 
unchanged. Ill set out again my reasons for upholding Mr Ls complaint in part.   
As Id said in my provisional decision, CCP will be familiar with the regulations in place 
so I will briefly summarise these. CCP needed to check that Mr L could afford to meet 
his repayments sustainably before entering into each of these four credit agreements. In 
other words it needed to check that he could meet his repayments out of his usual 
means without having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or 
other adverse consequences. The necessary checks needed to be proportionate to the 
nature of the credit and to Mr Ls circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that CCP needed to pay due regard to Mr Ls 
interests and treat him fairly. CONC 2.2.2G gave an example of contravening this 
requirement as targeting customers with regulated credit agreements which are 
unsuitable for them by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, 
disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did CCP complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ls applications to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did CCP make 
fair lending decisions?
CCP provided this Service with the information it relied on in making its lending decisions. 
This included Mr Ls application forms, his payslips and bank statements. The payslips 
were for the months of May through to August 2016, October 2016, and February, March, 
May and June 2018. The bank statements covered 24 May to 12 August 2016, 12 
September to 1 November 2016 and 29 March to 29 June 2018. Mr L has provided 
statements for other bank accounts and copies of correspondence between him and 
CCP.
Ive noted that Mr L said in his August and September 2016 applications that hed have 
a work bonus in December. Aside from the fact that Mr L would have repayments to 
make in the meantime, in order to accept this increase in means I think CCP ought to 
have asked for evidence and I cant see that it did so. I havent seen any evidence of 
this bonus nor can I find any obviously related deposits on Mr Ls bank statements so I 
have disregarded it.Mr L said in his applications his income was £1,342 and his expenses came to £581 at 
the time of Loan 1 and £681 at the time of Loan 2. The information hed given in his 
application forms suggested that he had a surplus of £761 and £661 for Loans 1 and 2 
respectively.
This seems at odds with him needing to take out loans for amounts less than this. Also,
Mr L could lose his car if he didnt manage to meet his repayments so the potential 
consequences were serious. I think CCP was right to gather some independent 
information about Mr Ls finances before lending to him.
However, while these checks might have been proportionate in some circumstances, it 
doesnt necessarily follow that CCP made fair lending decisions in Mr Ls case. The 
information CCP had showed that Mr L had other debts and costs which it hadnt captured 
on its application forms. For example, Mr L was making monthly repayments of about £30 
for catalogue debts and of up to £90 for a flexible credit facility. There were some transfers 
labelled kids money to another person and other transfers to this person of up to £80. 
Some of his costs were higher than hed declared, for example a monthly loan repayment 
of £145 was in fact £249. In addition, there were many transfers to and from other bank 
accounts.
Altogether, it seems Mr L had less disposable monthly income than hed declared and 
CCP should have seen this from the information it had. A check on Mr Ls other bank 
accounts, which I think would have been reasonable and proportionate, wouldnt have 
provided any reassurance to CCP that the loan would have been affordable but instead 
highlighted other costs, for example what seem to be weekly child cost payments of 
about £50 to £70.
Loans 1 and 2 ran concurrently and the combined repayments came to about £135 a 
month. I understand that Mr L missed a payment on his first loan and two payments on his 
second. CCP sent Mr L an email about his arrears on his second loan a couple of weeks 
before agreeing a third for him. The repayments for Loan 3 were higher again at about 
£225 a month.
I think Mr L might have been able to meet his repayments for his first two loans, based on 
the information available to me. But agreeing this third loan for Mr L committed him to 
paying at least a third of his monthly income on repaying debt. I think CCP ought to have 
had concerns about this given the information it had about Mr Ls potential costs and his 
management of his second loan. I think further checks at this point would likely have 
revealed that the loan wouldnt be sustainable for Mr L and I think this was borne out by 
his repayment problems.
In summary, Ive concluded that CCP wasnt irresponsible to have agreed a second loan 
for Mr L but it shouldnt have agreed to lend to him a third time. Hes lost out by paying 
interest and charges on this money and potentially had adverse information recorded on 
his credit file.
As mentioned, CCP has agreed that it shouldnt have given Mr L a fourth loan so I have 
set out below what it needs to do to put things right for him regarding both loans.
Putting things right
I understand that all the loans have been repaid. Its fair that Mr L repays the capital he 
borrowed for Loans 3 and 4 as hes had the use of this, but he shouldnt pay more than 
this.In order to put things right for Mr L, CCP needs to:
a) Refund to Mr L all payments he made above the capital amounts he 
borrowed for Loans 3 and 4;
b) Add 8% simple interest per annum to these overpayments from the date they 
were paid to the date of refund; and
c) Remove any adverse information about these loans from Mr Ls credit file; and
d) Revoke the Bill of Sale for Mr Ls car if this is still in place and return any 
relevant documents to him if it hasnt already done so.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CCP to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Mr Ls complaint in part about 
CarCashPoint Limited and it needs to put things right as Ive said.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman