DRN-3015684
The complaint
Miss D complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from Morses records, here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
loan date taken date repaidamount 
borrowedAgreed term 
(actual term)weekly 
rate
1 24/08/2017 26/03/2018 £200 33w  (31 w) £10
2 26/03/2018 10/12/2019 £350 33w  (89w) £17.50
3 10/12/2019 27/05/2020 £170 34w  (24w) £8.50
4 28/01/2020 24/07/2020 £300 34w  (25w) £15
5 25/05/2020 outstanding £300 34w  (o/s) £15
6 24/07/2020 outstanding £300 34w  (o/s) £15
Loan 3 looks to have been refinanced into loan 5. And loan 4 looks to have been refinanced 
into loan 6. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Loans 4 to 6 ought to be 
the ones that Morses put right for Miss D. Morses disagreed about loans 4 and 5 but agreed 
in relation to loan 6. 
Miss D was asked if the proposed resolution from Morses  that loan 6 was the one it put 
right for her  was acceptable. She disagreed and so Morses asked that the complaint be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Morses needed to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it 
should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss D could repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ds complaint in part and have explained why below.
Miss D didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this 
I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be deciding 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Miss D had with Morses. 
So, they are something I will account for when considering the other loans she took. 
And Morses has accepted that it needs to put things right in relation to Loan 6. So, the loans 
which I reviewed are the remaining disputed ones which are loans 4 and 5. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 4 and 5 because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending 
history with Miss D, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
And so Morses should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. I think 
that this point was reached by loan 4. I say this because:
Miss Ds first loan was for £200 and loan 4 was for £300. So, the amount Miss D was 
borrowing had increased as well as being indebted to Morses for a significant time  
two and a half years by loan 4. The highest expected weekly repayment for loan 4 
was more than twice that of loan 1. 
at this point Morses ought to have known that Miss D was likely borrowing to meet an 
ongoing and increasing need. And this indicates her problems may have been 
worsening. So, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more 
likely than not Miss Ds indebtedness was unsustainable. 
fFrom loan 4 onwards Miss D was provided with a new loan a very short time after 
she settled her previous loan - when a loan was repaid, a new one would be taken 
the same day and this pattern continued throughout the rest of the borrowing 
relationship
Miss D wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan 6 was 
taken out three years after Miss Ds first. And it was for a larger amount. Miss D had 
paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an 
extended period.
I think that Miss D lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ds indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period.
the length of time over which Miss D borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Miss Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 4 to 6, of which Morses has already 
agreed to loan 6, and Morses should put things right for each of loans 4 to 6 as I have set 
out below. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss D from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss D may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss D in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss D would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Miss D loans 4 to 6. I understand that there is an outstanding 
balance on loans 5 and 6. If it has sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back 
if its able to do so and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts 
back then it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss D towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Morses has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss D  which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date she originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss D as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results in Miss D having made overpayments then Morses should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Morses should then 
refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss D. 
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with her. 
Morses shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Morses has already 
written-off.
E) The overall pattern of Miss Ds borrowing for loans 4 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from her credit file. 
Morses does not have to remove loans 5 and 6 from her credit file until these have been 
repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse payment information recorded about 
these loans.
If Morses intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Miss D owes, it must do this after 
tax. 
Morses cannot carry out a set-off unless it owns the debt.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if they ask for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint in part and direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman