DRN-3427675
The complaint
Ms N is unhappy with the way TSB Bank plc (TSB) have been administering her bank 
account and feels they have acted discriminatory towards her.
What happened
At the beginning of January 2021 Ms N attempted to make a bank transfer  but the 
transaction didnt go through. She contacted TSB who said her debit card had been blocked. 
Ms N said this isnt the first time a payment had been blocked and was frustrated due to the 
inconvenience this had caused her. Ms N completed the security questions and the block 
was lifted. Ms N raised a complaint with the adviser as she was unhappy that her card had 
been blocked again  this time for seven days. TSB didnt uphold the complaint, but as a 
gesture of goodwill they paid Ms N £36 for expenses she incurred by having to call to get the 
block lifted.
Later in January 2021, Ms N called TSB for clarification following a letter she received from 
them about account fees. The call handler was unsure of Ms Ns query and couldnt 
reference the letter Ms N was referring to. The call handler advised her to go to a branch 
with the letter for further help.
Following Ms Ns call to TSB about the account fees, her account was blocked. It had been 
flagged that Ms N had received three large separate payments from HMRC into her bank 
account. TSB wrote to Ms N to explain theyd suspended her account and in order to lift the 
block, they required Ms Ns Proof of Entitlement of the funds. Ms N visited her local branch 
where it was explained (after the branch staff confirmed in a telephone call with the fraud 
team) what documents Ms N would need to provide for the account to be unblocked. 
Ms N sent the documents TSB asked for and around a week later, the block on the account 
was lifted. Ms N complained to TSB that they were discriminating against her by 
continuously blocking her account and consequently leaving her unable to access her 
money. TSB didnt uphold Ms Ns complaint. They explained they blocked her account fairly 
as they were right in questioning HMRC business payments made to a personal bank 
account. Unhappy with their response, Ms N contacted our service for help.
One of our investigators considered Ms Ns complaint. She explained we can consider 
whats fair and reasonable including the law and relevant regulations. But, whilst she may 
not have been able to make a direct finding on the Equality Act, she would take it into 
account. The investigator concluded that TSBs actions had caused Ms N worry, anxiety, 
and additional upset. This is because the investigator felt it was clear Ms N is a customer 
who might need additional support because English is not her first language. She also said 
TSB could have handled communication with Ms N better. The investigator said TSB should 
pay Ms N £400 compensation as a fair reflection of the impact on her. TSB didnt agree that 
£400 was a fair level of compensation given the circumstances. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional findings on 22 August 2022. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N says TSB have discriminated against her due to her race. She feels theyre blocking 
her account on purpose and preventing her from accessing her funds. Its not our role to say 
whether a business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. Our role is to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including 
relevant law and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So 
although its for the Courts to say whether or not TSB has breached the Equality Act 2010, 
were required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other 
things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Account block
TSB placed a block on Ms Ns account that lasted seven days, when they noticed three 
payments from HMRC relating to self-employed grants. As these payments are relating to 
business banking, and credited to Ms Ns personal account, TSB required Ms Ns Proof of 
Entitlement.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account and at the very start of the booklet it
explains;
These accounts are for your personal use only, so these terms and conditions arent for 
business customers, including clubs, charities, sole traders and partnerships.
So, considering what the terms and conditions say, and Ms N confirms these were in relation 
to her business account, I think TSB acted fairly and in line with the account terms by placing 
a block on Ms Ns account, pending further information from Ms N as to the nature and 
entitlement of these credits.
Security questions to remove the debit card block
Ms N called TSB when she couldnt make an online transaction. The call was picked up by 
the fraud team, where Ms N was asked a series of security questions. Ive listened to the 
call, and I understand why Ms N feels the questions she was asked aren't the usual types of 
questions used when identifying a customer for security purposes. And while, I agree the 
questions arent the usual questions we see in these circumstances its not our role to tell a 
bank what questions to ask. But we can make sure the business has acted in line with their 
own internal processes fairly and ask questions about the decisions theyve made to make 
sure the business has acted reasonably. 
Having done so, Im satisfied the evidence the business has submitted demonstrates they 
did act in line with their processes, and theyve explained why they used a combination of 
questions, which again is in line with their procedures. Therefore, Im persuaded that TSB 
treated Ms N fairly and in line with any other customer in the same circumstances. So, I 
wont be asking TSB to do anything further in relation to this aspect of the complaint.
Account fees
When Ms N received her statements, she had concerns about some of the fees which had 
been added to her account, so she called TSB for clarification. During the call, the call agent 
said he couldnt understand Ms N and that there was a language barrier - so he directed Ms 
N to visit a branch to seek assistance.Having listened to the call I dont agree with some of the comments made by the call agent. 
While I accept that English isnt Ms Ns first language, Im quite surprised that the call agent 
wasnt able to understand the questions Ms N was asking regarding the fees. However, if 
this was the case and the call agent felt the language barrier was such that he wasnt able to 
offer Ms N the service she required, I think alternative options which didnt disadvantage Ms 
N ought to have been explored. This could be arranging a call back from the team who deal 
with the account fees, referring her to a vulnerable customer team or using a translation 
service. And while TSB may not offer any of the examples Ive given, its expected that they 
should have something in place for vulnerable customers to make sure no further detriment 
is caused.
 
The FCA defines a vulnerable person as someone who, due to their personal circumstances, 
is especially susceptible to harm, particularly when a firm isnt acting with appropriate levels 
of care. Within the guidance for firms on the fair treatment of vulnerable customers it 
explains that for customers where English isnt their first language, this could potentially 
cause a vulnerability. The principles outline that these individuals may have particular needs 
regarding accessible communication. The principles also outline that front-end staff ought to 
be trained in identifying a vulnerability and ensuring the business has a policy in place to 
deal with it.
Our service has asked TSB what support Ms N was given as a vulnerable customer, 
especially considering the call agent identified there was a language barrier and was unable 
to provide Ms N with the assistance she needed because of this. TSB has responded saying 
Ms N didnt make them aware of her vulnerability, didnt ask for a different type service or 
translator. And while I agree Ms N hasnt made TSB aware of any potential vulnerability, 
TSB didnt provide the service Ms N contacted them for, due to a language barrier.
So, I think its fair to conclude its likely the call agent knew there was a language barrier 
which was preventing Ms N from getting the answer she needed about the fees on her 
account. And consequently, she was asked to visit a branch to clarify her query, causing her 
to be inconvenienced and further worry about the fees accumulating on the account. 
Therefore, Im persuaded that more could have been done to assist Ms N without causing an 
inconvenience to her.
Im not satisfied Ms N was given the right support as a vulnerable customer. TSB didnt 
provide Ms N with the service they should have, didnt identifying her as vulnerable and 
didnt provide her with the right support she needed. Therefore, Im intending to ask TSB to 
compensate Ms N £200 for the distress caused, for the inconvenience and trouble of having 
to go to a branch to get the account block lifted, and the upset and frustration of not being 
listened to or understood.
TSB and Ms N had until 20 September 2022 to give me any further comments to consider. 
TSB responded accepting my provisional findings, but Ms N disagreed. Ms N said:
She didnt think it was reasonable to suspend her account four times to complete 
security checks due to the self-employed grants paid into the account.
That TSB knew this was her main personal bank account for all her day to day 
necessities so they shouldnt have suspended the account.
That it was unreasonable for TSB to suspend the account knowing her poor financial 
position as she was receiving government grants, and they should have asked for 
further information without freezing the account.
Ms N felt that the security questions she was asked by TSB were inappropriate as 
shed only just moved to the area. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what Ms N has said following my provisional findings, but it doesnt change my 
decision - Ill explain why.
TSB have provided evidence that Ms Ns bank account was only suspended on one 
occasion due to the checks they needed to complete following the payments into the 
account of the government grants. TSB have confirmed Ms Ns debit card was 
blocked on another occasion for security checks following a card purchase. I havent 
seen anything from Ms N or from TSB other than the account and contact notes for 
Ms Ns account that shows the account was suspended on any other occasion than 
the two TSB have confirmed. 
It wasnt unreasonable for TSB to block Ms Ns account when they had concerns 
over the payments that were received. They acted in line with the account terms and 
conditions, and suspended the account pending further checks.
Its possible when TSB blocked the account, they became aware of Ms Ns financial 
position. TSB doesnt monitor account activity on a day to day basis, this is the 
responsibility of the account holder, and Ms N was aware of the account terms and 
conditions, and these were breached by Ms N using the account for business 
purposes.
Its not our role to tell a bank what security questions to ask. But we can make sure 
the business has acted in line with their own internal processes fairly and ask 
questions about the decisions theyve made to make sure the business has acted 
reasonably. In this case Im satisfised TSB have adhered to their processes in 
relation to the security questions asked, and so Ms N wasnt treated fairly and in line 
with any other customer in the same circumstances.
With this in mind, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision for the 
reasons Ive explained.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Ms Ns complaint. I require TSB Bank plc to 
pay Ms N £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman