DRN-3211407
Complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt do more to protect him from fraud.
Background
In November 2018, Mr K paid £6,200 to an investment company. In 2019, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) froze that companys assets. It was concerned about the 
implications of its financial health for investors. The company is now under the control of an 
insolvency practitioner.
However, the business Mr K invested with was split into two companies  one was regulated 
by the FCA and the other was subject to the jurisdiction of a regulator in another country. 
Due to the precise way that the business had been structured, Mr Ks funds were under the 
control of the company outside of the FCAs jurisdiction. One of the implications of that is 
that he cant make an application for reimbursement to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS).
He's been advised to pursue the matter with the equivalent organisation in the country where 
the investment company is based. That organisation has publicly said its accepting and 
considering claims, but Mr K says that his dyslexia makes it particularly difficult for him to 
carry out the administrative steps to submit a claim.
In October 2020, Mr K told Santander what had happened. He said that he was the victim of 
fraud and that Santander shouldve prevented him from making these payments to the 
investment company and should now reimburse him.
Santander didnt agree to refund him. The complaint was looked into by an Investigator who 
didnt uphold it and so it was passed to me to consider and issue a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks response to the Investigators view was extensive and set out in some detail the 
obligations that banks are expected to meet in order to protect their customers from financial 
harm due to fraud. Unfortunately, Im not persuaded that Mr K was a victim of fraud. He 
invested his money with a company that was legitimate but has since failed. And due to the 
legal structure of the company, hes not able to recover his money via the FSCS but needs 
to make an application to the regulator in the companys home country. 
Theres no evidence to suggest that there was any attempt to scam Mr K out of his money. 
Mr K has argued that Santander shouldve carried out further enquiries about the payments 
out of his account because they were unusual and out of character. But even if I were to find 
that it shouldve flagged these payments for closer attention before allowing them to be 
processed, I dont think it had any obligation to give Mr K financial advice or protect him from 
making an unsound investment decision.
Mr K has described in detail the impact this loss has had on him and he has my complete 
sympathy. But the most appropriate way for him to attempt to recover the money hes lost is 
to make use of the scheme run by the investment companys regulator. I recognise that he 
has said that there are barriers to him completing the application process to allow his claim 
to be considered but we have signposted him to an organisation in his local area that may be 
able to assist him. 
Overall, while I know my decision will be hugely disappointing to Mr K, I dont think 
Santander has done anything wrong here.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman