Page 1 of 2 The complaint  
Mr T is unhappy that Mercedes -Benz Financial Services UK Limited is pursuing him for an 
incorrect outstanding debt after returning a vehicle under a hire agreement.  
What happened  
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.  
We investigated a complaint under reference                        in 2020 concerning the
outstanding balance owed by Mr T after returning a vehicle under a hireagreement.
Our opinion on that complaint was issued on 18 October 2020 and it was agreed thatthe charges be reduced to £615. Both parties agreed to this and Mercedes wereexpected to contact Mr T to arrange settlement.
However, Mr T didnt hear anything from Mercedes until 14 months later with the full
amount  was being requested and the threat  of debt collectors  if this wasnt  paid.
Our investigator has tried to mediate with Mercedes and received confirmation thatwhat is owed should only be the reduced amount of £615. And whilst Mr T is still
liable for this, she expressed to Mercedes that their actions 14 months later would
clearly be distressing for Mr T. However, despite numerous requests, our investigator
didnt receive a response from Mercedes or even their file in respect of this
complaint. She therefore issued her view on the information available and awarded
£300 compensation.
As Mercedes havent responded, the complaint has therefore been passed to me, an
Ombudsman, to make a final  decision.
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I understand from Mercedes that the debt was overlooked and picked up in an audit. 
However, it says it sent a final statement to Mr T saying it would reduce charges to £661.50, 
when it didnt receive an agreement back from Mr A to accept the offer, it therefore chose to 
pursue the debt for the full amount. This is clearly going against the agreed settlement of 
reduced charges of £615 that was issued by us in October 2020 and both parties agreed to.  
DRN-3637743Page 2 of 2 Chasing for the full debt 14 months later has been distressing for Mr T especially as 
Mercedes have taken the steps to use a debt collector. I feel this action was unnecessary in the circumstances. I therefore will be instructing Mercedes to pay Mr T £300 compensation 
for the distress caused by Mercedes failing to honour the previous agreement under our 
reference   
The £300 co
mpensation should be taken off the outstanding amount Mr T owes. This leaves 
Mr T liable for a £315 payment to bring the account to a close. Mercedes should invoice Mr T for the final outstanding payment of £315 within 28 days of us telling it that Mr T accepts 
my decision.  
My f
inal decision  
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.  
Angela Casey  
Ombudsman  