DRN-1942638
The complaint
The estate of Mr B (the estate) is represented by Ms B, one of the estates executors. The 
complaint alleges that The Share Centre Limited (TSCL) misled, and/or provided incorrect 
information to, the estates solicitor with regards to liquidating shares held by the late Mr B. 
In July 2018 TSCL said the estate required a Grant of Probate (GOP) before a liquidation 
instruction could be accepted, then in November that year it said it could accept such an 
instruction without a GOP. The estate seeks compensation for depreciation in the value of 
the shares between July and November.
What happened
TSCL disputes the complaint. In the main, it says:
No misinformation happened, its policy/practice was as it stated in July 2018.
Upon specific request, its Compliance team had discretion to review any enquiries 
about accepting an instruction prior to receipt of a sealed GOP. It was not obliged to 
declare this, but its letter of July included content that invited any questions or notice 
of required assistance.
After its letter of July, no enquiry was made by (and received from) the estates 
solicitor until November 2018, in response to which it exercised its discretion and 
accepted the estates instruction.
Mr Bs account was held on an execution only basis.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He broadly agreed with TSCLs position and he noted that the terms for Mr Bs 
account included express notice that a GOP was required for liquidation instructions, like 
TSCLs letter of July 2018 stated. He understood how reference to its discretion could have 
been helpful at the time, but he was satisfied that it was not obliged to make such reference. 
The adjudicator also said he was not persuaded to hold TSCL responsible for the period 
between this letter and the estates solicitors enquiry in November 2018.
Ms B disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In the main, she 
said the adjudicator had not addressed (or had not properly addressed) the misleading effect 
of TSCLs July letter in contrast to its letter (and acceptance of instruction without a GOP) in 
November. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold the estates complaint.
I understand the estates argument in the complaint. However, I do not consider that it 
outweighs TSCLs position in the matter.
TSCL responded to the estates solicitor in July 2018 based upon the latters communication 
in June 2018. In the June communication the estates solicitor gave TSCL notice that Mr B 
had passed away and made specific enquiries  for probate and inheritance tax purposes. 
The enquiries sought information about investments held for Mr B; about the acquisition 
dates for such investments; about their value(s) and income paid (and tax deducted) during 
a specific period; about the  forms necessary for the sale or transfer of holdings in due 
course  [my emphasis]; and about the estates options in this respect.
Nothing in the estate solicitors letter indicated a wish for prompt liquidation of any assets 
held in Mr Bs account(s) or an instruction to that effect. Indeed, and as I emphasised above, 
the indication within the letter was that the matter of sale or transfer of such assets was to be 
addressed in due course  which suggests that it was not an immediate concern.
As the adjudicator noted, the terms for the account expressly said liquidation of assets in a 
deceaseds account would first require a GOP. This is what TSCL conveyed to the estates 
solicitor in July. This information was relevant to the query about sale or transfer forms and it 
was accurate, based on the terms of the account. Information about options relevant to any 
sale or transfer was also provided by TSCL.
Overall, I consider that TSCL responded accurately to the estates solicitor. I appreciate that 
Ms B would argue the opposite, given what later happened in November. However, 
circumstances differed in November. In contrast to the enquiries of June, the estates 
solicitors email in November specifically referred to concerns about the time being taken to 
obtain a GOP and about the shares being unprotected in the meantime; it also directly asked 
TSCL to consider accepting a liquidation instruction without a GOP and with the liquidation 
proceeds being held in the account until a GOP was issued. It is in response to this enquiry 
that TSCL exercised discretion to accept the instruction without a GOP.
The execution only service basis for Mr Bs account is relevant. It meant TSCL was not 
obliged to give advice or guidance akin to advice. Without any indication, in June, that the 
estate sought to liquidate the shares and/or to do so promptly, TSCL was not required to 
give any advice or guidance in this respect. It limited itself to answering the queries 
presented by the estates solicitors and, given such service basis, I do not consider that it 
was wrong to do so. When faced with an enquiry (and request) which stated a wish to 
liquidate shares and to do so promptly, it applied its discretion and granted the request. 
It is obvious that reference to TSCLs discretion in June could have been more helpful to the 
estate (and its solicitor) and it is possible that the request in November could have been 
made earlier if that happened. However, and mindful of the accounts execution only service 
basis, TSCL was not obliged to volunteer such information within its July response given that 
the estates solicitors enquiries of June did not ask for it.
Overall and on balance I am not persuaded to uphold the estates complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold the estates complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman