DRN-1824264
The complaint
Mr V has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund a transfer from his account which 
he says he didnt make.
What happened
On 3 June 2019, Mr V made several online transfers using his mobile banking app. He 
transferred £1,400 to another one of his accounts. Then, he made several transfers totalling 
£10,000 into his Lloyds' account.
Within seconds of the payment in, there was a payment out for £10,000. The payment was 
made into a third partys account with another bank. The payment was made from the same 
device using his mobile banking app.
Lloyds sent a text message to Mr Vs mobile phone asking him to confirm that the 
transaction was genuine. It also asked him to visit a local branch with ID documents.  In the 
meantime, Lloyds blocked the payment. Someone went into a local branch with Mr Vs debit 
card and PIN and confirmed the payment was genuine. The payment was unblocked.
On 5 June 2019, Mr V called Lloyds and raised a fraud complaint. He said he didnt 
recognise the payment for £10,000 and that it wasnt him who visited the local branch. He 
told Lloyds that someone else had taken his debit card, PIN and driving licence, but he 
couldnt explain how. He said he lived with three other people and kept his mobile phone at 
home in his bedroom. 
Lloyds declined his claim and advised Mr V to find out who could have taken his phone.
Mr V called Lloyds again on 17 June and admitted hed made the payment but said he used 
the wrong account details. He said he was buying a business, but hed sent the payment to 
the wrong person. He said he didnt know the payee.
On 24 June, Mr V told the bank that he was planning on making the payment, but someone 
stole his phone and made the payment anyway but to the wrong account.
Lloyds declined Mr Vs claim. It said he had admitted making the payment so it treated him 
as having authorised it. He had also given the bank conflicting stories. But despite his 
inconsistencies, he never said he was scammed into making the payment. Lloyds also gave 
him ample opportunity to visit a local branch with someone to help explain what had 
happened. But Mr V didnt do this.
However, Lloyds accepted it hadnt tried to get the money back from the receiving bank 
using its best endeavours and paid him £75 compensation. 
As Mr V wasnt happy with Lloyds decision, he asked this service to investigate. 
He now says he didnt make the payment. He told us he lives with one other person in a two 
bedroomed flat. He doesnt know his flatmate except to say hello. He said he has an iPhone and an android. He keeps his phones in his bedroom and no-one has access to his room. 
He made the non disputed transactions outside, but he cant remember where. 
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she didnt uphold it. In summary, she felt 
unable to conclude that the payment was made fraudulently and was persuaded that it was 
more likely that Mr V made it.
Mr V disagreed with the investigators view and so this case has now come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I consider what is fair and reasonable, I must take into account relevant law, rules, 
guidance, codes of practice, and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the relevant law and rules.  The 
view also sets out the facts and the transactions. Mr V and Lloyds have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my 
decision. However, I can assure Mr V that Ive read the file.
Im afraid I dont have good news for Mr V.  Im not going to ask Lloyds to give him back his 
money because I think he authorised the payment. I will explain why I think this. 
Generally, Lloyds doesnt have to refund Mr V if the evidence shows that its more likely than 
not that he made the disputed payment himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that the payment was made via his mobile 
banking app, using his log in details. Im also satisfied that the payment was made using his 
mobile phone, which was registered to the mobile banking app. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable Lloyds 
to hold him liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not that Mr V authorised the payment. He can authorise it by making it 
himself or consenting for someone else to make it.
Unfortunately, Mr V has changed his version of events several times and this hasnt helped 
his case. He has given confusing and conflicting explanations for what happened. I think the 
language barriers might have contributed to the confusion. However, he was given ample 
opportunity by Lloyds and this service to ask someone to help him put forward his case, but 
he hasnt done this. Despite this, I consider theres still sufficient evidence showing that he 
made the disputed payment because:
the banks technical reports show the payment was made from his android phone. 
This is the device he registered to the mobile banking app.
The payment was made from the same device (the android phone) and IP address 
as the transfer for £1,400 and the transfers into his account.
The first transfer was at 13.30. The last of the genuine transfers was at 13.36.41. The 
disputed payment was at 13.36.42  just a second later. Based on these timings, Im 
satisfied he had possession of his phone when the disputed payment was made. Im afraid its simply not credible that a stranger took his phone from him and made the 
disputed payment without him seeing or knowing anything about it. 
Lloyds sent three text alerts to his mobile phone asking him to confirm the payment 
was genuine. The mobile number is the same number as we have on file for him.
I think he saw those texts. And, as he has never mentioned losing his debit card, I 
think its more likely than not that he attended the local branch and confirmed the 
payment was genuine.
Mr V admitted making the payment but to the wrong account. He said he was buying 
a business but sent the payment to the wrong person.
 
Sadly, it seems Mr V entered into a business arrangement which hasnt worked out and he is 
now trying to recover his money. This is consistent with the information from the receiving 
bank which also mentions the sale of a business. I cant say whether Mr V was the victim of 
a scam or coercion or whether he simply made an error. He hasnt answered our questions 
or provided any consistent testimony.  
However, taking everything into account, I find, on balance, that Mr V authorised the 
disputed payment. I think its fair and reasonable, therefore, for Lloyds to refuse a refund.
Even if Mr V sent the money by mistake to the wrong account, Lloyds can use its best 
endeavours to recover the money. I can see it tried to do this, but it needed more information 
from Mr V, which he never provided. It asked him for the details of the person who should 
have received the money, but he hasnt responded. So, Lloyds felt unable to take matters 
further. 
I think Mr V expected to get his money back because Lloyds paid him compensation for not 
following its process. However, Lloyds cant treat it as payment made in error if he says he 
didnt make it. And it cant help him if he doesnt co-operate with the banks investigation.
Im sorry this will be disappointing news for Mr V but Im afraid there is nothing more we can 
do to help him. I hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I'm not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman