DRN-1741212
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that First Title Insurance Plc rejected a claim on their search report 
insurance policy.
What happened
When they were buying their home, Mr and Mrs F paid for a company to carry out a Local 
Authority Search. After buying the property, they said it was on the flightpath for the local 
airport and this should have been disclosed when the search was done. They made a claim 
on their policy.
First Title said the claim wasnt covered by the policy. It said the policy provides cover for 
losses relating to an adverse entry which would or should have been revealed in the Official 
Local Authority Search if it had been obtained directly from the local authority, but wasnt 
disclosed in the search. First Title said it had confirmed with the local council that a local 
search would not disclose information about the property being on a flight path, and this 
meant there was no cover.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed and brought their complaint to our service, but our investigator did 
not think the complaint should be upheld. So they have requested an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for Actual Loss, not exceeding the Maximum Limit of Indemnity, 
that You suffer as a result of an Adverse Entry. 
An adverse entry is defined in the policy as follows:
An Adverse Entry means any matter(s) having a detrimental effect on the market value of
the Property, that would or should have been disclosed in an Official Local Authority Search
Report had one been carried out in relation to the Property on the Policy Date, but was not
disclosed in the Search Report. This includes where the Appropriate Body's registers and
information and/or the answers provided by the Appropriate Body for the purposes of the
Search Report were incorrect as at the Policy Date due to the Appropriate Body's error or
omission"
So the policy only provides cover in limited circumstances  namely, where the policyholder 
suffers a loss because something that should have been disclosed in a Local Authority 
Search wasnt disclosed. It doesnt provide cover for something that would not have been 
disclosed by a Local Authority search. The purpose of this insurance is to provide some 
protection where someone carries out a Local Authority Search on a property they are 
buying, and information that should be provided to them isnt.
First Title has provided information showing that it checked with the council, and the council 
confirmed that a Local Authority Search would not have shown that the property was on the 
flightpath. 
Mr and Mrs F have provided quite detailed comments and supporting documents. In 
particular, they say they asked the council for information and were told the property was on 
the flightpath. They also refer to various planning documents, which show that it was in the 
area of the airport. 
First Title sought further comments from the council, which explained that the Local Plan 
does not include information in relation to flight paths. [the airport] share information with the 
Authority on aircraft noise contours that are a relevant planning constraint  -a version of 
these contours were included on the Policies Map. The Property in question does not fall 
within the aircraft noise contours provided by [the airport].
I have considered the comments from Mr and Mrs F carefully but they dont lead me to find 
in their favour. I know they were able to obtain more information by making enquires with the 
council. But the insurance policy is quite specific  its not intended to cover any information 
that might be obtained from the council, only information that would or should have been 
disclosed by the specific Local Authority Search. The council has said very clearly that 
information about the flightpath would not be disclosed by this search. So the criteria for 
cover to be provided havent been met, which means there is simply no cover for this claim.
Mr and Mrs F have described the issues they have experienced with noise from aircraft, and 
evidence that the value of their home is affected. I dont doubt that the situation has been 
extremely difficult for them. But my role is limited to deciding whether First Title has dealt 
with their claim fairly, in line with the policy terms. And for the reasons given, Im satisfied 
that it has. As Ive explained, the policy only provides cover for the specific circumstances 
set out in the policy documents, and those dont apply here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman