DRN-3673001
The complaint
Mr C complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled his commercial vehicle 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
employees and others insofar as I hold Admiral responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
For the year from December 2020, Mr C had his vehicle insured on a comprehensive policy 
with Admiral.
Unfortunately, in mid-September 2021, someone damaged the wing mirror of Mr Cs vehicle. 
He contacted Admiral to confirm the excess that would apply. Having done so, he didnt 
make a claim.
In early January 2022, Mr C complained to Admiral that it had sought to increase his 
premium as a result of the September 2021 incident and had told other insurers about that 
incident.
By a final response dated early January 2022, Admiral turned down the complaint. Unhappy 
with that, Mr C brought his complaint to us in mid-February 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Admiral had acted unfairly.
Mr C disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that he's been treated unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C told Admiral about the incident with his wing mirror, even though he decided not to 
claim for it.  From what Mr C and Admiral has each said, it recorded the incident on the 
Claims Underwriting Exchange database (CUE). 
From a renewal schedule, I see that Admiral offered to renew the policy for the year from 
December 2021 at a total cost of about £550.00. From what Admiral has said, it rates any 
incident in the same way it rates claims below a certain level. I accept that Admiral treated 
Mr C in the same way it wouldve treated anyone else in his situation.
Different insurers have different ways to assess risk of future claims and to set premiums. 
But I cant say that the availability of a lower premium shows that a higher premium is unfair.
From what hes said, Mr C found a premium of about £290.00 with another insurer, so he 
took out a policy with them. But the new insurer checked CUE and found out about the 
September 2021 incident. The new insurer asked Mr C to pay an additional £78.00.
Im dealing with a complaint about Admiral, rather than about the new insurer. And I dont 
know what questions the new insurer asked Mr C. But many insurers ask about incidents 
as well as about claims. And Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 imposes an obligation on a consumer to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
CUE allows an insurer to check whether another insurer has recorded that a driver has been 
involved in any incident or claim. And I dont hold Admiral responsible for the other insurers 
additional premium when it found out about the September 2021 incident.
Overall I dont consider that Admiral treated Mr C unfairly. I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct Admiral to compensate Mr C or to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman