DRN-4282748
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed his account without a reason. He 
wants substantial compensation.
What happened
Mr C had accounts with NatWest.
Following a review of his account NatWest decided to close his account. They sent Mr C a 
letter dated 11 May 2023 and gave Mr C 60 days notice. During that time Mr C had access 
to his account.
Mr C was unhappy, he asked for the reason why his account was being closed. 
Mr C says that being without an account caused him a lot of stress and he has found it 
difficult to provide for his family and to open other accounts.
NatWest replied to Mr Cs complaint they said they had complied with the terms when they 
gave Mr C 60 days notice.
Mr C complained to our service. One of the investigators looked into the complaint. He said 
NatWest had acted fairly when they reviewed and closed Mr Cs account and they didnt 
need to give Mr C specific reasons why they were closing the account.  NatWest confirmed 
that no adverse markers had been applied against Mr C.
Mr C was unhappy with the view. He said not being able to open an account with another 
high street bank had greatly impacted himself and his family. He said he had been treated 
unfairly by NatWest. He thought this service had favoured the bank in its assessment of his 
complaint. He thought he should get compensation of £15,000 from NatWest.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Cs accounts. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied NatWest were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Cs accounts. 
Financial businesses, like NatWest, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean they have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to 
review an account at any time.
Following their review NatWest made the decision to close Mr Cs accounts. They wrote to 
him and gave him 60 days notice. 
As the investigator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
NatWest wrote to Mr C on 11 May 2021 and let him know it was closing his account giving 
him 60 days notice. So, Im satisfied NatWest closed the accounts in line with the account 
terms. 
NatWest has provided information to this service in confidence. I would add too that our 
rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as 
confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains security information, or 
commercially sensitive information. Some of the information NatWest has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential.
I have nevertheless considered this information whilst assessing if NatWest acted fairly 
when it closed Mr Cs accounts. Having done so Im satisfied that it has. So, it was entitled to 
close the account as its already done, and I cant say NatWest has treated Mr C unfairly. 
Mr C has mentioned that he hasnt been given a reason for the closure of his accounts. Mr C 
has said he wants to know the reasons why NatWest closed his accounts. Whilst Mr C may 
have expected to be given the reasons for the account closures. NatWest isnt required to 
give him a specific reason. And I can understand Mr Cs frustration that he hasnt been 
provided a detailed explanation. But as the investigator has explained, NatWest is under no 
obligation to provide this information to him, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say 
NatWest have done anything wrong by not giving Mr C this information. 
Mr C says he has been having trouble opening another account. And he has provided 
evidence to show this. I am very sorry about this. I know Mr C has a family he needs to 
provide for, and this situation is worrying for him. I have checked and Im satisfied that 
Nationwide havent loaded a marker against his name. So, I wanted to reassure Mr C that 
any issues he is having with opening an account arent related to any markers applied by 
NatWest.
Mr C has said we have sided with the bank in our assessment of his complaint.  with the 
implication being that the bank is influencing our conclusions inappropriately. Whilst I do 
recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider what both 
parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. That is what 
we have done in this complaint. 
Mr C has asked for substantial compensation for the way he has been treated. Mr C has 
provided this service with information as to the impact the closure is having on him and his 
ability to look after his family. I am very sorry that Mr C has been so badly affected by this 
closure. In order for this service to award compensation to a customer, the bank must have 
made an error or treated a customer unfairly. I have reviewed all the evidence and I cant 
see that NatWest have made an error or acted unfairly when they decided to close his 
account. It follows that I cannot ask NatWest to pay compensation to Mr C even though I am 
aware that the decision to close his account has had a substantial impact on him.I appreciate that Mr C will be disappointed with my decision but having looked at the 
evidence I cant say that NatWest have acted unfairly when they closed Mr Cs accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons sated above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman