DRN-3729641
The complaint
Mrs F complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, debited £1,020 from her 
account instead of £20 when she made a cash withdrawal at a branch.
Mrs F would like the £1,000 of her money refunded in full, with compensation for what has 
been a very difficult time.
What happened
On 6 December 2021, Mrs F went to a Halifax branch to withdraw money from her current 
account. This was authorised using her card and PIN. Mrs F said the cashier who served 
her, who was also the branch manager, was continually talking to her, which she found 
distracting. 
Two days later, Mrs F withdrew £40 from a cash machine.
In January 2022, Mrs F received her statement. This showed that the withdrawal on 6 
December had been recorded as £1,020. Mrs F said shed only withdrawn £20. So Mrs F 
contacted the branch manager, who said that CCTV would be checked.
On 4 February, Mrs F hadnt heard anything, so she contacted the branch again. She was 
told that CCTV was only kept for 30 days and nothing more would be done. Mrs F said she 
wanted to take it further, so someone from a different branch rang Mrs F, and told her shed 
contact Halifaxs complaints team for Mrs F. 
Mrs F told Halifax that she wouldnt have withdrawn £40 two days later if shed withdrawn 
such a large sum on 6 December. She believed that a Halifax employee had stolen the 
money. She agreed that shed entered her card and PIN, but as the cashier had been talking 
continually, she might not have paid attention to the amount on the card screen.
Halifax didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint. In its final response, it said it had checked the 
branch records, which it said showed that the branch had balanced. It said CCTV was only 
kept for 30 days so it couldnt look at this, because Mrs Fs complaint had been raised two 
months after she made the withdrawal.
Mrs F wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. She said that although looking at the 
banking data might prove that £1,020 had been taken out, authorised by chip and PIN, this 
didnt prove where the money had actually gone. She believed shed been a victim of fraud 
and theft by a member of Halifax staff. She pointed out that although the accounting side 
had been investigated, anyone with even a rudimentary knowledge of banking could work 
out how to get round this. She said she believed that this wasnt the first time this had 
happened. She suggested other customers might have noticed the wrong amount on the 
card screen but the cashier would then have said it was a typo; or they might not have 
pursued the matter; or there might not have been any record of a number of similar 
complaints.
Mrs F said she believed that the cashier had input £1,020, and had constantly talked in order 
to distract Mrs F. Shed been given £20 while £1,000 remained in the till and was later 
removed. The branch records would still balance because £1,020 had been removed, but 
just hadnt gone to the right person. Mrs F also said that the erasure of CCTV after four 
weeks coincided with when her statement would arrive. 
Mrs F asked us to carry out a full interview, branch inspection, and analysis of any similar 
occurrences while the same branch manager had been in post. She said it was a case of 
systemic theft within the branch.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Fs complaint. He said hed seen confirmation that the till 
balanced, and there was no evidence to suggest a bank error. He said Mrs F would have 
had the opportunity to see the amount being withdrawn when shed entered her card and 
PIN. He acknowledged that Mrs F had said shed been distracted by the cashier who was 
continuously talking to her, but he said he failed to understand how this would stop Mrs F 
from seeing the amount shown on the card machine. 
The investigator also said that hed asked Mrs F why she thought a Halifax employee had 
stolen the money, and shed said this was the only conclusion she could think of. She said 
shed spoken to a bank manager and bank clerk who werent from Halifax, and theyd said it 
would be easy to steal the money and balance the tills. The investigator said that hed also 
seen that Mrs F had a pattern of large withdrawals for irregular amounts, and a withdrawal 
for £1,020 wouldnt be out of character with Mrs Fs account. He also said that Mrs F hadnt 
reported this to the police.
Mrs F didnt accept this. She said that:
- shed withdrawn £40 two days later, which she wouldnt need to have done if shed 
withdrawn £1,020. She said she didnt have any household or vehicle expenses 
warranting spending £1,000;
- the money hadnt been counted out to her, and she hadnt received £1,000 cash;
- usually the cashier asked her to check the amount on the cash machine screen, but 
this time the cashier hadnt done so;
- she was convinced Halifaxs employee had stolen the money;
- she said how dare the investigator suggest she had a pattern of large withdrawals. 
Shed merely withdrawn £1,210 on 25 June and a further £1,000 on 22 September;
- she wasnt in the habit of making false claims and had had an account with Halifax 
for 12 years. She said the investigator was taking advantage of a vulnerable 
pensioner.
Mrs F also sent in a statement from her husband, who said hed waited for her in the car 
park.  He would have accompanied her if shed been going to withdraw £1,020, for security 
reasons.
Mrs F asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs F feels very strongly about her complaint, which is understandable.  
Unfortunately, I cant know for certain what happened, because I wasnt present. It does 
happen that we sometimes dont have all the evidence wed like, and when that happens I 
take my decision on what I think it more likely than not to have happened, in all the 
circumstances of the complaint.There are regulations which govern disputed withdrawals, and the relevant ones for 
transactions in December 2021 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. In general 
terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise a payment, and the customer is 
liable if they did authorise it.
First, I agree with Mrs F that the fact that the till and branch balanced doesnt prove that the 
cashier didnt steal money. Thats because if a hypothetical cashier had stolen money, the 
debit in the customers account would match the reduction in the till balance. The fact that 
the till and branch balanced does, however, indicate that its unlikely there was an error by 
the branch. If it had been a mistake, the till and branch wouldnt have balanced. So either 
Mrs F, or someone else, received the money. 
Ive gone on to look at any other evidence to help me to determine whats more likely than 
not to have happened.
A key factor here is that Mrs F put in her card and PIN. Mrs F says the cashier was talking to 
her as a ploy to distract her, and that the cashier didnt tell her to check the amount on the 
screen when putting in her card and PIN. But ultimately, it was up to Mrs F to check what 
she was authorising.
CCTV is no longer available, because its not kept for more than 30 days. This is similar to 
many organisations, because the facility is reused and recorded over. By the time Mrs F 
contacted the branch on 28 January, it was already significantly more than 30 days since the 
withdrawal so the CCTV had already been deleted. So this isnt available for me to use in my 
considerations.
Mrs F asked us to look at other matters, including to conduct interviews, and inspect the 
branch. Those arent matters which this service would do, and in any case Im not persuaded 
that this could prove what happened on 6 December last year. 
I asked Halifax for more information. I asked whether it had records of similar complaints 
about that branch, but it said it doesnt keep such statistics. 
I also asked Halifax about its process for cash withdrawals over £1,000. Halifax replied that 
generally two colleagues would count the money, but the process doesnt require them to 
sign to say theyve done this. Mrs F said the money wasnt counted out to her. So again 
there is a straightforward conflict of evidence. 
Mrs F says she received only £20 which wasnt counted out to her. Halifax says Mrs F left 
with £1,020, which would have been counted out to her. Only someone who was there could 
tell for certain what happened. But the fact which is indisputable, because it appears on the 
impartial computerised records, is that Mrs F authorised a £1,020 withdrawal using her 
genuine card and correct PIN. I recognise that this is unsatisfactory for Mrs F, but ultimately, 
the Regulations about disputed transactions say that its the authorisation that matters. So I 
have to rely on the key evidence here  which is that Mrs F authorised a withdrawal of 
£1,020 by her card and PIN. So I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman