DRN-4212741
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a claim they made 
on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr and Mrs Y were on holiday abroad. As part of their trip, they intended to stay in a 
relatives motorhome on a campsite. Unfortunately, the motorhome needed urgent repairs 
and was taken to a garage. This meant Mr and Mrs Y were left with nowhere to stay for this 
part of their trip.
So they called Great Lakes to explain what had happened and to check what cover they 
had. The call handler told Mr and Mrs Y that they had up to £1000 of cover and that they 
could make a claim for their expenses at a later date. Mr and Mrs Y arranged hotel 
accommodation for two nights at a cost of around £822. They made a claim for the costs 
they incurred.
Ultimately, after a prolonged claims process, Great Lakes turned down Mr and Mrs Ys 
claim. It said the policy didnt cover Mr and Mrs Ys situation.
Mr and Mrs Y were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and with the way it had handled their 
claim. So they asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator considered the policy terms and didnt think Mr and Mrs Ys situation had 
been covered. He listened to the call between Great Lakes and Mr and Mrs Y. He didnt 
think the call handler had explicitly told Mr and Mrs Y that their claim would be covered, but 
he felt Great Lakes should have been clearer. And he said he understood why Mr and Mrs Y 
had been under the impression that theyd be covered.
However, he didnt think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs Ys claim, as 
he considered that theyd always have needed alternative accommodation. In the 
circumstances, he felt it would be fair for Great Lakes to pay Mr and Mrs Y £200 
compensation.
Great Lakes accepted the investigators recommendations. But Mr and Mrs Y didnt. Briefly, 
they said theyd correctly explained their situation to Great Lakes and had been explicitly told 
that they had £1000 available for emergency accommodation. They told us that the area 
theyd been staying in was very busy at that time of year and that theyd needed air 
conditioning. The hotel theyd booked was the only one with air conditioning. They were 
unhappy with the way Great Lakes had handled their claim and with the conflicting 
information theyd been given. And they said that if Great Lakes hadnt wrongly told them 
that the claim would be covered, theyd have made a claim through their relatives insurance 
policy.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs Y, I think the fair outcome to 
this complaint is for Great Lakes to pay them £200 compensation and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ys policy and the call they had with Great Lakes, to decide whether 
Great Lakes treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr and Mrs 
Ys contract with Great Lakes. During the call, the claims handler referred to the Additional 
Overseas Accommodation and Repatriation Cover section of the policy which is set out on 
page 33. This says that Great Lakes will provide cover of up to £1000 for additional 
accommodation (up to the standard of a policyholders original booking) if a policyholder 
cant use their booked accommodation due to one of the following:
terrorist event, fire, flood, earthquake, explosion, tsunami, landslide, avalanche, volcanic 
eruption, snow, hurricane, storm or an outbreak of food poisoning affecting your 
accommodation or resort.
This section of the policy only applies if a policyholder has taken out the travel disruption 
extension add-on and paid an additional premium. Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ys policy 
certificate and it doesnt appear that they took out or paid for this cover. In any event though, 
damage to or breakdown of a motorhome isnt something which would be covered by this 
section of the contract. And Ive carefully checked the remaining sections of the policy Mr 
and Mrs Y had taken out and paid for. But I cant see any section which would provide cover 
for the situation in which Mr and Mrs Y found themselves. So I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for Great Lakes to conclude that the claim wasnt covered.
It's clear though that Mr and Mrs Y feel strongly that given the information they were given 
on the call; their costs should be met. Like the investigator, Ive listened to the call. I 
acknowledge that Mr and Mrs Y did clearly explain their situation and that they were calling 
to get authorisation to arrange alternative accommodation. I also acknowledge that the call 
handler effectively simply told them that there was up to £1000 worth of cover and that Mr 
and Mrs Y could pay for their accommodation and claim at a later date. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs Y were given an explicit assurance that any claim would be paid  
as Great Lakes would need to assess any claims documentation in line with the policy terms 
once a formal claim had been submitted. But like the investigator, I can entirely understand 
why they left the call believing that their claim would be covered. In my view, the call handler 
ought to have clearly explained that the Additional Overseas Accommodation and 
Repatriation Cover would only apply if a policyholder had taken out the travel disruption 
extension. And I think they could have been clearer about the cover available under that 
section of the policy and the way it worked. So I think there was a clear failing here.
Accordingly, I need to go on to consider how I think Great Lakes should put things right. In 
order for me to reasonably conclude that Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs Ys claim, Id 
need to be satisfied that its more likely than not that theyd have acted differently if theyd 
been given clearer information about the cover they had. Based on the information Ive seen, on balance, I dont think they would. Given they could no longer stay in their relatives 
motorhome, Mr and Mrs Y would always have needed to arrange alternative 
accommodation. Theyve told us that given the time of year, the area in which they were 
staying was very busy and expensive  especially as they required air conditioning. They 
also said that the hotel they booked was the only one nearby with air conditioning. As such 
then, it seems to me that even if Great Lakes had told Mr and Mrs Y that their circumstances 
were unlikely to be covered, theyd still have most likely had to book the same hotel and 
incur the same costs. This means that I dont think theyve been financially prejudiced as a 
result of the lack of clarity in the information Great Lakes gave them.
Overall then, despite my natural sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ys position, I dont think it was 
unfair or reasonable for Great Lakes to turn down their claim. Mr and Mrs Y have also said 
that if theyd been told upfront that their claim wasnt covered, theyd have claimed on their 
relatives insurance policy. It remains open to them to make a claim on their relatives policy 
should they wish to do so, although I cant comment on whether such a claim would be 
successful.
Nonetheless, I do think Mr and Mrs Y have been caused some trouble and upset as a result 
of the way Great Lakes handled their claim. I dont think their expectations were properly 
managed by the call handler and I dont doubt how disappointed and frustrated they were 
when they learned that their claim wasnt covered. Its clear too that the submitted claim 
wasnt handled as smoothly as it should have been and that Mr and Mrs Y were given 
conflicting information about the outcome of their claim. Again, I think this added to Mr and 
Mrs Ys overall distress and inconvenience. So in all the circumstances, I think an award of 
£200 compensation is fair, reasonable and proportionate. I was pleased to note that Great 
Lakes has now agreed to pay this award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr and Mrs Y £200 compensation,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman