DRN-1649918
The complaint
Mr G complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc mis-sold him Personal Possessions cover. He 
said he wasnt made aware of policy exclusions and this impacted on him when he had to 
make a claim.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr G took out a home insurance policy with Sainsburys Bank Plc 
(Sainsburys) via a price comparison website. He took Personal Possessions cover as an 
optional extra as he wanted to cover his laptop, which was worth £4500, while away from his 
home address.
After taking out this policy the rear window of his Mr Gs vehicle was smashed and his laptop 
were stolen from the boot.
Mr G contacted Sainsburys to make a claim under his policy. The underwriter of this policy 
agreed to cover his claim. But it was only prepared to offer £1000 towards the cost of 
replacing his laptop because it said this was the limit under the policy for an item stolen from 
a vehicle. 
Mr G wasnt happy about this. As hed specifically taken out Personal Possessions cover to 
cover his laptop while away from his home, he felt he was entitled to be reimbursed in full for 
its value. So, he complained to Sainsburys that it had mis-sold him the additional cover hed 
purchased. He thought Sainsburys should have made him aware of the exclusion it was 
seeking to rely on at the point of sale. And he felt the exclusion was buried within policy 
documents, which it was unfair to expect him to read. He therefore asked Sainsburys to 
settle his claim so he wasnt out of pocket.
Sainsburys investigated Mr Gs concerns and explained it had provided him with the 
Personal Possessions cover hed purchased. It stated it had given him policy documentation 
to show how a claim would be settled and the applicable policy exclusions that would apply. 
Sainsburys also said the policy had been sold on a non-advised basis. So, it was Mr Gs 
responsibility to ensure it was suitable to his needs. It therefore didnt uphold his complaint 
as it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr G wasnt happy with Sainsburys response to his complaint and referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and thought Sainsburys had provided clear 
information about the policy features and exclusions in the policy documents it had issued 
Mr G at the point of sale. And they felt the onus was on Mr G to read the documentation hed 
received to ensure that the policy hed purchased was suitable to his requirements. Overall, 
they werent persuaded that Sainsburys had mis-sold the Personal Possessions cover Mr G 
had purchased. And they didnt recommend upholding this complaint. But Mr G disagreed 
and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has sent submissions in response to our investigators view of his complaint. I want to 
assure him Ive read and considered everything that both he and Sainsburys have sent 
when reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mr Gs raised as Ive focused 
on what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mr G wont take that as a discourtesy, 
my approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
I can appreciate why Mr G is disappointed with our investigators view of his complaint. Ive 
no doubt the theft of his laptop was very distressing for him. It must have been doubly so 
when he received a settlement that didnt cover what hed paid for the laptop. 
Its clear from what Mr G has told Sainsburys and our investigator that he believes he was 
mis-sold the Personal Possessions cover he chose to purchase as an optional extra. I 
understand hes raised a separate complaint about the amount of money the policy 
underwriter has paid to replace his stolen laptop. A final decision has already been issued 
on that complaint. So, I wont be commenting on how Mr Gs theft claim was settled in this 
decision.
I can see Mr G listed his laptop under his specified Personal Possessions cover, that hed 
purchased as an optional extra. Its obvious that he wanted to ensure this item was insured 
while he was away from his home.
Cover for contents away from the home is typically always a policy add-on offered by 
insurers. Because its an extension of cover it will attract an additional premium. Thats 
because the risk the insurer is being asked to take on will have increased.
In this case Mr G purchased his policy via a price comparison website. Im satisfied the sale 
was conducted on a non-advised basis as Sainsburys didnt recommend the policy or 
provide Mr G with any advice as to the suitability of the cover he was selecting. 
The fact that the sale was non-advised is crucial as this means Sainsburys didnt need to 
make sure that the policy it sold was suitable for Mr Gs needs. It had a responsibility to 
provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so Mr G could make an informed 
decision on whether the policy was suitable for him. The responsibility for ensuring he had 
the cover he required therefore rested on Mr G.
Like many insurers that advertise policies for sale on a price comparison website, 
Sainsburys provides a brief list online of the features and exclusions of the policy. It said it 
isnt able to list every instance online where a claim wont be covered, which isnt 
unreasonable. Instead it provides policyholders with a brief list of scenarios in which a claim 
will be met as well as policy exclusions that apply. 
Sainsburys said it then asks a policyholder to download and read the policy booklet, which 
sets out in detail the policy exclusions and how a claim would be settled in the event one 
was made. This is important because it enables a policyholder to make an informed 
decision about whether the policy theyve purchased provides adequate cover. And this is 
why insurers offer a cooling off period  during which a policyholder can cancel they policy 
theyve taken out without a financial penalty.
After Mr G purchased his policy online I can see Sainsburys sent him an insurance pack 
by post. This pack is dated 13 January 2018 and included, amongst other items, Mr Gs 
policy booklet and schedule. On page one of the letter Mr G received I can see Sainsbury 
advises a policyholder to read all the information weve sent you to make sure youve got 
the cover you need, and youre clear on the details.I think this letter made it clear that Sainsburys wouldnt provide any advice on the suitability 
of the policy, and that it was for Mr G to determine suitability for himself.
I appreciate that the policy documentation Mr G received would have been significantly 
more detailed than the summary hed seen online when purchasing his policy. I can see his 
policy booked is 76 pages in length, which isnt unusual.
I understand Mr G feels its an unrealistic expectation to have to read all the policy 
documents he was sent by Sainsburys. But I dont agree. Its clear that insuring his laptop 
away from home was particularly important to him  this is why he took the optional 
Personal Possessions cover out in the first place. And I think its reasonable to expect him, 
like any policyholder, to read the documents and policy wording he received in order to 
ensure the policy hed purchased remained suitable to his needs and matched the cover he 
required. 
Ive considered the policy documentation Sainsburys provided Mr G and am satisfied the 
information as what is included and excluded under the Personal Possessions cover he 
purchased is clear and not misleading. 
If Mr G had read the documentation he received hed have seen the limitations and policy 
exclusions that applied here. He could then have exercised his right to cancel his policy 
without penalty during the cooling off period. And he could have taken out more suitable 
cover elsewhere. I cant fairly hold Sainsburys responsible for Mr Gs failure to read 
information about his policy. 
I appreciate that Mr G isnt happy that the policy didnt give him the benefit of the full value of 
replacing his stolen laptop as he had wanted. But, having considered the sales process, and 
the policy terms and conditions, Im satisfied Sainsburys provided information to Mr G in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way information to enable him to make an informed choice 
about whether the cover hed purchased was suitable This means I dont think the policy was 
mis-sold.
I realise Mr G will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Sainsburys informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr 
G further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman