DRN-3776456
The complaint
Mr I, represented by loss assessors, complains about how Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great 
Lakes) dealt with a claim on his home insurance. References to Great Lakes include other 
organisations and individuals acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr I had buildings and contents insurance with Great Lakes. His home suffered water 
damage in a storm. It was later discovered that there had also been damage from a leak 
from the shower. Mr I made two claims on his policy. Great Lakes appointed a loss adjuster 
to deal with the claim. 
Mr I says Great Lakes dismissed the estimates he provided for the work, failed to 
understand the full extent of the damage in the first instance, and failed to have the property 
dried out properly. He also complains that he cant get the necessary work carried out for the 
settlement figure offered by Great Lakes. 
Mr I complained to this service, but as Great Lakes hadnt responded to his complaint, this 
service passed his complaint to Great Lakes. Great Lakes said:
The settlement offered was to cover damage which had occurred as a direct result of the 
operation of an insured peril, in this case due to ingress of water from a storm and escape of 
water from a leak to the shower. [Mr Is contractor] included replacement of skirting boards 
and their decoration within the quote, these were not directly damaged by either the ingress 
of water or escape of water and therefore, cannot be considered under the claim.
In response Mr Is loss assessor has told this service that they cannot understand how Great 
Lakes can refuse to pay for skirting boards and wallpaper as its contractor stripped the wall 
these were fixed to and removed bathroom tiles. The loss assessor provided a breakdown of 
the repairs Mr I had paid for.
Great Lakes responded, saying that skirting replacement was offered on the escape of water 
schedule for the bedroom but not on the storm claim as they were not damaged under that 
claim. Great Lakes said that redecorating in the lounge and bedroom was factored in under 
both claims, and repairs to the ensuite were scoped as per the escape of water schedule. 
Great Lakes noted that Mr I had already arranged redecoration works to the lounge prior to 
its attendance.
Great Lakes said that Mr I had received cash settlement on the storm claim and was offered 
a cash settlement for the escape of water claim, which was not accepted by his loss 
assessor. Great Lakes said its cash settlement doesnt include any betterment but only 
offers the amount it would cost Great Lakes to have the work done. Great Lakes offered its 
own contractor to do the work if Mr I wasnt happy with its offer. 
Mr I wasnt happy with Great Lakes response to his complaint, so he continued his 
complaint with this service. Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint be upheld. 
The investigator said Great Lakes isnt responsible if Mr I took actions that dont follow the 
terms and conditions of his policy. 
Mr I wasnt happy with what the investigator said and so his complaint has been passed to 
me. Mr I wants Great Lakes to pay the full cost of the repairs and pay him compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Is home insurance policy documents said:
Claims
You must not settle, reject, negotiate or agree to pay any claim without Our written 
permission. Full details of how to claim are included in the policy wording.
And:
Your obligations following a claim.
In the event of a claim or possible claim under this policy, you must not negotiate, admit fault 
or make any offer, promise or payment without your insurer's written consent.
And:
If you make a claim or possible claim under this policy, your insurer will at their option;
I) Repair, reinstate or replace the lost, damaged or stolen property or pay the cost of 
reinstatement through a repair or replacement network nominated by your insurer;.
Mr I has gone ahead with some repairs without written consent from Great Lakes, which was 
a condition of his policy. The requirement for an insurers permission before work is carried 
out is a standard requirement of home insurance policies. The reason for this is that it allows 
insurers to assess the work against the claim entitlement and manage costs. Mr I has 
prejudiced Great Lakes position on the claim by not allowing it to carry out its claims function 
before completing the work. 
Great Lakes schedule of works for the escape of water claim lists extensive work to the 
ensuite bathroom, including replacing the wall tiles, and plastering, wallpapering, and 
replacing skirting boards in the bedroom. The schedule of works for the storm damage 
includes wallpapering.
Mr I has claimed for other works which Great Lakes says werent caused by the escape of 
water or storm damage. I havent seen evidence to show that Great Lakes is incorrect in its 
assessment of this. 
Great Lakes has offered cash settlements for the two claims and has said if Mr I is unhappy 
with the amount offered it will arrange for the work to be carried out by its contractors. I think 
this is fair and reasonable, in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Is policy, and 
in line with what this service would expect. My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. So I wont be asking Great 
Lakes Insurance SE to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman