DRN-4348679
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way Acromas Insurance Company Limited dealt with his claim 
when his car broke down.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mr P held a roadside assistance insurance policy, which includes European 
breakdown cover underwritten by Acromas.
He was driving in France when his car broke down. He got in touch with Acromas, 
who arranged for his car to be taken to a garage.
The garage said it would take time to look into the problem. Acromas provided Mr P 
with a hire car and he continued his journey.
The garage said the engine required replacement and sent Mr P a quote for this 
work. The garage and Mr P didnt reach an agreement about the repair, so Acromas 
arranged for his car to be returned to the UK unrepaired.
When the car was returned to the UK, Mr P said it had been damaged whilst it had 
been with the garage and it had been left partly dismantled. The cost of repair was 
estimated at close to the value of the car, around £8,500. Mr P sold it for just over 
£1,000 in its damaged state. He thought Acromas was responsible for him losing out 
financially by taking his car to an obscure, little garage in the middle of nowhere 
when he thought there were more reputable garages nearby.
The garage said it had received the car damaged and it hadnt caused further 
damage. It also said it had been necessary to partly dismantle the car to diagnose 
the problem and leaving it in that state avoided unnecessary labour costs. So it didnt 
agree to pay anything towards Mr Ps loss.
Acromas said it wasnt responsible for the garage and didnt have any approved 
garages outside the UK. So it had no control over how the garage acted. It thought it 
had acted fairly.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Acromas wasnt 
responsible for the garage and had fulfilled its obligation under the policy.
Mr P disagreed. He maintained there were other, preferable garages closer than the 
one his car was taken to. And if his car had been taken to one of them, the problem 
would have been identified sooner and he wouldnt have lost out financially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, the relevant part of the policy say it covers a roadside repair or taking 
the car to the nearest garage. The policy also says that Acromas isnt responsible 
for European garages or any other service providers, such as a recovery operator. 
The policy doesnt cover the cost of repairs beyond any carried out at the roadside.
As the policy doesnt cover repairs at a garage and it says Acromas isnt responsible 
for a European garage, I dont think it would be fair to hold Acromas responsible for 
the actions of the French garage.
Whilst the policy says Acromas isnt responsible for a recovery operator, it is 
responsible for a roadside repair or taking the car to the nearest garage. And that 
can only be carried out by a recovery operator. So I think it would be fair to hold 
Acromas responsible for the actions of the recovery operator.
Mr P says that despite the policy requiring Acromas to have the car taken to the 
nearest garage, that didnt happen. I havent seen anything to suggest this garage 
was the nearest  or at least the nearest available at the time. So arguably Acromas 
hasnt fulfilled the policy terms and ought to have taken the car to a different garage.
However, Im not persuaded it means Acromas is responsible for the loss Mr P 
suffered when he sold his car for much less than its repaired value. Ill explain why.
Its clear Mr P has strong concerns about the professionalism and suitability of the 
garage. Whilst it may not have been the nearest, its part of an established, reputable 
network of garages with mostly positive reviews. So I dont think there was anything 
to suggest to the recovery operator that this garage was unsuitable.
And I havent seen any evidence to show the garage avoidably caused any damage 
to the car, misdiagnosed the problem, or otherwise caused the condition of the car to 
be worse than it likely would have been if it had been taken to another garage. 
So even if I found Acromas was responsible for the recovery operator and they 
should have taken the car to another garage, Im not satisfied its been shown that 
made a material difference to Mr P.
As a result, Im not going to require Acromas to take any further action.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman