DRN-3399828
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim under 
their legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to UKI, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
Whilst this is a joint policy, for ease of reading, Ill refer mainly to Mr W as this is his claim. 
What happened
Mr W wishes to contest his late fathers will. He believes it was his fathers intention to 
appoint him as executor, and it was because of undue influence that this didnt happen. Hes 
questioned the validity of the will and he has concerns over how its being executed. He 
made a claim to UKI under his legal expenses insurance policy. 
UKI declined the claim on the basis that policy cover for inheritance claims is limited to 
disputes over something left in a will. It also specifically excludes claims arising from 
disputes with executors over the management of the estate. 
Mr W disagrees with UKIs interpretation of the policy. He says he shouldve been left the 
role of executor, so this should fall within the policy coverage. He brought his complaint to 
our service, raising several areas of claim. And whilst I dont intend to list them all, the main 
points appear to be as follows:
The validity of the will.
The original will shouldnt have been revoked.
Undue influence causing Mr W not to be appointed as executor.
The validity over the appointment of the chosen executors.
Dispute over the management of the estate. 
Residual estate distributions: a shortfall in the inheritance amount he received and 
concerns that he hasnt received an equal share of the estate.
Professional negligence against the executors of the will.
Extended family members removing items from the estate.
Ambiguous tax treatment content of the will.
A removal of trust provision in the will.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She wasnt persuaded that these points related 
to a dispute over something left in a will, and that specific exclusions also applied to some 
aspects. As Mr W didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
Since then, Mr W has raised a further aspect to his claim. He says he shouldve been left 
more than 50% of the estate.
Both UKI and our investigator consider that this aspect could potentially fall within the policy 
cover, subject to a full assessment on the facts of the claim. Theyve asked Mr W to provide 
information to UKI to enable it to assess this area of claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr Ws strength of feeling regarding this complaint and I appreciate the 
circumstances giving rise to his claim have been upsetting and stressful. I want to assure 
him that whilst Im aware I may have condensed some of the complaint points in far less 
detail and in my own words, Ive read and considered everything hes told us. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored anything  I havent. 
Im satisfied Ive captured the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on 
every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail Mr W would like, in order to reach 
what I think is a fair outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
Policy coverage 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws legal expenses insurance policy says it will cover 
inheritance disputes defined as:
Inheritance disputes
We will cover the costs of claims for a dispute over something left to you in a will.
So in order for Mr Ws claim to be accepted, it must fall within this description.
If the claim falls within this description, then the next step will be to decide if any of the 
related exclusions apply, which are as follows: 
We dont cover claims arising from or relating to:
disputes with executors about the management of the estate
disputes between you and another beneficiary regarding the administration or 
disposal of any item left to you in a will
the negligent drafting of a will
situations where a will has not been made or concluded, or cant be traced (this is 
called intestacy).
Claims decision
UKI has concluded that the initial claims presented to it dont arise from a dispute over 
something left to you in a will.  
For clarity, its not my role to make a claims decision. Its for me to decide whether UKI acted 
in line with the policy terms and conditions and in a fair and reasonable manner when it 
declined the claim. Im satisfied it did, and Ill explain why.
Whilst the policy term isnt defined, I think a fair interpretation of the word something, in the 
context of an inheritance claim, would be an asset of some sort, such as property or money. 
In addition, I think a fair interpretation of the word left, in this particular context, would be as 
a beneficiary. 
An executor is a person or institution appointed to carry out the terms of a will. This role isnt 
left to them as a beneficiary. Whilst they may also be a beneficiary of the will, this isnt 
always necessarily the case and is separate to the appointment of an executor. As such, Im not persuaded Mr Ws appointment as an executor  or lack thereof  is about 
something he was left in a will. 
Looking at the other aspects of the claim listed above, none appear to relate to Mr W 
disputing an asset of some sort that he was left  or that he feels he shouldve been left  as 
a beneficiary in the will. 
UKI has highlighted that many of the claims raised by Mr W are caught by the policy 
exclusions relating to disputes with executors over the management of the estate and 
disputes with other beneficiaries about the administration and disposal of items. 
Whilst I dont disagree with UKI, Mr Ws claim hasnt passed the first test  which is that it 
must fall within the description of cover. As such, although exclusions may also apply, Im 
satisfied it was fair for UKI to decline cover on the basis that the claims dont fall within an 
insured event.
Outstanding claim
Mr W has indicated to us that hes unhappy about his inheritance. He tells us he shouldve 
been left more.
UKI has said this appears to be a dispute about something left to Mr W in a will. So theres 
potentially cover, subject to a full assessment of the claim which would need to meet the 
remaining policy terms and conditions. It has asked Mr W to provide full details of the claim. 
Should Mr W wish to pursue this element of his claim, he must contact UKI directly and 
provide it with all required information to evidence his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman