DRN-2175666
The complaint
Mr W complains about charges and interest added to his Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited account. 
What happened
At the beginning of December 2019 Mr W made a purchase with an online retailer. As part of 
this he set up a finance account to pay for it with Shop Direct. At the end of December he 
received an email advising him that a payment was due to the account. However, when he 
logged on to his account through the app it showed a nil balance.
He called Shop Direct to query this. The advisor told him that nothing was currently due and 
he would be contacted when it was. He was then contacted to say that his account was in 
arrears Mr W paid the arrears in February 2020 and paid the remaining balance in the 
months that followed.
However Mr W said that it wasnt fair that he had been charged for missed payments during 
this time. He said he had made efforts to pay the outstanding amount but hadnt been able to 
do so. He made a complaint to Shop Direct.
Shop Direct didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It said that when he had made the most recent 
purchase, he had set up a new credit account. And he already had a cash account with 
them. It said when he was logging on to view his balance, he was logging on to the cash 
account where no money was owed. And this was the account number he provided when he 
called. Due to this it said Shop Direct hadnt done anything wrong, so wouldnt refund the 
charges.
Mr W didnt think this was fair as he said he would have paid the amount due at the time if 
he had been able to. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended Mr Ws complaint be upheld. 
She said that Mr W had tried to pay the amount owed and acted on advice given by a Shop 
Direct advisor by not taking any action. She therefore thought it was fair for Shop Direct to 
refund the interest and charges on the purchase and pay £100 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Mr W accepted our investigators view. However Shop Direct didnt agree. It said Mr W gave 
the wrong account number over the phone, so Shop Direct had given him the correct advice. 
It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a complaint this service looks at whether a business has got something 
wrong. And where we find it has, we consider what would have happened if it hadnt and 
what it should do to put things right. 
In this case Mr W says Shop Direct gave him incorrect advice when he called to find out how 
he could make a payment to his account. And this is why he didnt make the required 
payments.
I have started by considering whether Shop Direct gave Mr W incorrect information. I have 
listened to the call he made to check how to pay. Mr W provided his details and said he had 
been notified that he needed to make a payment but wasnt able to online. The advisor 
confirmed three times that no payment was due. This wasnt correct, money was owed at 
this stage, so I agree incorrect information was given.
Shop Direct has said that this is because the advisor was looking at Mr Ws other account 
with it  a cash account that had no outstanding balance. So the information given was 
correct. While I agree that this information was correct in relation to his other account, Mr W 
starts the call by explaining that he has been receiving messages saying he is due to make a 
payment by that day. I think this would be enough information for the advisor to recognise 
there was a problem. And they could have explored further to try and identify what the 
problem was. Instead the advisor confirms a number of times that there is nothing due and 
goes onto say for now you just need to ignore the SMS because there is no payments due 
today. 
I have also considered what Mr W would have done differently if he hadnt been given 
incorrect information. Mr W makes it clear at the start of the call that he knows he owes 
money and is looking to pay what he owes. He has tried to do so on the app but as he has 
been unsuccessful, has called to try another way. So it seems clear that he was willing to 
make the payment that was due. Further when he was able to make payment, this was 
made promptly and the full balance was paid off shortly after this. So I think it seems likely 
that had Mr W been given the correct advice by Shop Direct on the phone then he would 
have made payment when they were due and would not have incurred the additional interest 
and charges. 
Shop Direct has said that it is Mr Ws responsibility to manage his own accounts, and he 
should have known that he had two accounts with it and was viewing the wrong account. 
Although I agree it is for individual customers to ensure their accounts are kept up to date, I 
think Mr W called Shop Direct with the intention of ensuring his account was up to date. And 
although he had two accounts, by the fact he was confused about the nil balance and 
queried it three times on the phone call, it seems clear that this was a genuine mistake and 
he was trying to make a payment.
Shop Direct has also said that when Mr W logs onto his account online he should be 
presented with the option of two accounts, so he would be able to see that the outstanding 
balance is on one of them. Mr W has said that he uses the mobile phone app and it takes 
him directly to his account, rather than giving him that option. And from considering the 
action Mr W took to try and make payment, it seems clear that Mr W wasnt aware it was the 
wrong account he was looking at. So I think its likely that he wasnt presented with these 
options on the app.
So for these reasons I am satisfied that Shop Direct did give Mr W incorrect information. And 
that had he been given the correct advice he would have paid the money owed before his 
account fell into arrears. For this reason I agree with our investigators view and will 
therefore require Shop Direct to remove or refund any charges or interest that have been accrued on Mr Ws account due to the missed payments. Further I will require it to remove 
any negative information from Mr Ws credit file relation to the payments.
I have also considered the distress and inconvenience Shop Direct has caused. By giving 
him the wrong information Mr Ws account has fallen into arrears. And this has impacted his 
credit score. Mr W took action initially to try and ensure he met the payment deadline, so this 
would be particularly distressing. Due to this I require Shop Direct to pay Mr W £100 
compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I will require Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to:
Remove the charges and interest added to Mr Ws account relating to the missed payments.
Correct negative information recorded on Mr Ws in relation to the missed payments.
Pay Mr W £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman