DRN-1596749
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
her buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Ms W received a renewal quote from Triton to renew her buildings and contents insurance 
policy in June 2019. To ensure her policy remained in force, Ms W paid the full amount to 
Triton. The amount paid was £391.85.
In September 2019 Ms W received a letter from the insurers. The letter explained to her that 
the insurers had stopped providing Ms Ws insurance from the renewal date in June 2019 
and no insurance policy was in force. The letter told Ms W to get in touch with Triton. She 
tried to do this, and Ms W also took out alternative insurance. Ms W was concerned her 
money had been taken fraudulently and she wanted it refunded.
She didnt hear anything from Triton, and she never received her money back. So, she 
raised a complaint through our service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Ms W. She asked Triton to refund the premium of £391.85, pay 
interest on that amount and pay Ms W £100 compensation for the upset the matter had 
caused her.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Ms W has provided. I find her 
information plausible and persuasive.
Ms W paid Triton to ensure her policy remained active. And, once she was aware she didnt 
have any insurance cover in force, she made sure she sought cover immediately.
Ms Ws original insurers cancelled their agreement with Triton in January 2019. 
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide
Ms W with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton shouldnt 
have offered Ms W any insurance cover with the original insurer. And they should have 
refunded the money Ms W paid to them.Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Ms W. Ms W has also 
confirmed that she tried to speak to Triton several times to get her money back, and she was 
told by Triton that her concerns were being looked into. Thats the only contact Ms W has 
had from Triton. None of her other calls were returned. Because of this upset, its also 
reasonable for Triton to pay Ms W £100 compensation. I think this amount fairly recognises 
the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Ms W her premium of £391.85;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Ms W paid for 
her insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Ms W £100 compensation for the upset shes been caused.
 
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Ms W how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Ms W a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman