DRN-3426237
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about advice given to them on the cost of two mortgage options by 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin). They want Virgin to put them on the 
other deal it had offered, which their representative says would have been better for them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H said that they were offered a choice of two mortgage products by Virgin. They 
were offered the following - 
5 year fixed rate at 1.68% with no product fee = monthly payment of £819.60
5 year fixed rate at 1.35% + £995 product fee = monthly payment of £807.90 if the 
fee is added to the balance, or £804.80 if the fee is paid upfront.
When Virgin gave this advice, it worked out that the difference between £804 80 and 
£819.60 is £14.80. It multiplied this by the remaining 61 months on the fixed rate, to get an 
overall saving of £902.80. So Virgin said that the saving over the five year period would be 
less than the fee of £995. Virgin said for this reason, it didnt consider the product with the 
fee to be cost effective.
Mr and Mrs H chose the 5 year fixed rate at 1.68% with no product fee. But they then 
discussed this with a family member, who said this calculation ignored the ending balance of 
their mortgage after five years. He said they would be paying more each month for the offer 
they had taken out, but this offer would only result in a very slightly smaller ending balance 
than the deal with the product fee. He felt that Mr and Mrs H were paying slightly more per 
month on the deal theyd chosen, but there wasnt an equivalent reduction in what they 
owed, because more of that money was being swallowed up in interest. 
So he said that Mr and Mrs H had been wrongly advised. The deal with the product fee was 
better for them overall. 
Mr and Mrs H complained to Virgin, but it didnt think it had done anything wrong. So they 
then complained to our service, supported and represented by this family member. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said this complaint centred 
around the calculation method Virgin used to compare the two products when determining 
which was more cost effective. Virgin explained it bases its calculation on the outstanding 
mortgage balance at the point of the interview, in this case 29 April 2021. And it doesnt 
consider a reducing balance. 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative said the mortgage is on a repayment basis, so its unfair not 
to consider the reducing balance when calculating which product would be more cost 
effective. But our investigator said we cant tell Virgin to change its method for all customers 
in the future. We can only consider whether it followed its methods correctly and whether Mr 
and Mrs H were given the chance to consider their options before going ahead. She said 
they were sent an offer, which explained the basis of the loan and costed the options. 
Our investigator said that the difference between the current total monthly payment 
(£819.54) and the fee-paying option added to the mortgage (£807.90) was £11.64. So, this 
means that had the fee bearing product been selected, then there would be a monthly 
saving of £11.64. But she said that for this to be the more cost-effective option, the savings 
over the five-year term would need to be more than the cost of securing the product. And 
that wasnt the case here. £11.64 over the term of the fixed rate would have saved around 
£700 in the following five years. But the cost of the lower interest rate product was £995.
Our investigator said Virgin had applied its standard methodology properly, and was right to 
say that the fee bearing product wasnt cost effective. Mr and Mrs H had been given a 
chance to consider that. Our investigator didnt think Virgin had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative didnt agree. He still thought that paying an extra 0.33% per 
year for five years costs significantly more than the alternative of paying a £995 fee, because 
that was just 1.06% of the £93,744 principal amount. He said this was simple mathematics. 
Our investigator said that the standard methodology that Virgin had used complied with the 
rules set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook, and she referred the 
representative to those rules. 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative said we were still arguing that because the total "repayments" 
under Contract A are less than the total "repayments" under Contract B the first is 
preferable. He said that was wrong because the so called "repayments" actually consist of 
both interest and principal repayment and do not result in the same amount of principal 
outstanding after five years. He said that just because someone is paying less each month it 
doesn't mean that they have a better or cheaper deal - whatever they pay needs to be 
assessed in the context of the outstanding balance at the end of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative said the rules our investigator referred to seemed to have 
fallen into the same trap, as they dont take account of the ending balance of the mortgage. 
He said if our service didnt uphold his complaint then he would want to discuss this with the 
FCA. But first, he wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint. 
This case then came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it, Mr  and Mrs Hs representative is arguing that Mr and Mrs H will spend 
around £700 more overall on their mortgage over the next five years, but they will only be a 
little less than £300 better off, in terms of the principal amount of the loan paid off. So he 
thinks they would be better off with the fee paid deal. 
I should be clear that I havent audited Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage. Its not the role of our 
service to do this for them. But I have looked at the calculations that Virgin did for Mr and 
Mrs H, when it set out for them the options they had to fix part of their loan. And Im satisfied 
that those calculations did comply with the relevant rules, as set out in the FCA handbook. 
My obligation here isnt primarily to see if those rules have been followed. Its to provide a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, taking into account the relevant rules. But I 
dont think that what has happened here is unfair or unreasonable. Mortgages are a long term product, and it isnt possible to predict with any confidence now 
what will happen to interest rates, the wider economy, or indeed in the lives of Mr and Mrs H, 
as this product continues throughout its term. What the FCA basis for calculations offers is a 
simple way in which Mr and Mrs H can assess the overall cost to them, in the medium term, 
of two different mortgage deals. 
The representative has sent us detailed calculations of what he considers the mortgage 
position will be at the end of five years, on the deal Mr and Mrs H took, and what it would 
have been if theyd taken out a five year deal on a slightly lower fixed rate, with a product fee 
added to their lending. Hes looked at the cost to them and the benefit from each option.
Again, I havent audited these figures. And I understand his argument that this isnt the 
fullest information Virgin could have given, because its calculation doesnt take the ending 
balance on the mortgage into account. But Im not able to see that any unfairness has 
occurred here, and I dont think the mortgage Mr and Mrs H was unsuitable for them. 
Mr and Mrs H were told that they would only save a small amount each month by paying for 
a fix at a lower interest rate. They were not also told whether this fee-paid deal would leave 
them owing more or less at the end of the five year period. Their representative says that it 
would leave them owing slightly more.
I dont agree that this means Mr and Mrs H would have been more likely to choose the fee 
paid deal, or that in this case, the information that they were provided with was unfair.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative is free to take this issue up with the FCA, as he has indicated 
he would wish to do. However, although I understand he will be disappointed, I dont think 
this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman