DRN-3042999
The complaint
Mr F complains about the advice he received from Future Wealth Management (FWM) when 
he transferred his five existing personal pensions to a Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). 
His funds were subsequently invested in high-risk investments and he lost almost half of his 
pension funds. Mr F said he was led to believe he was taking a product that was appropriate 
for his circumstances, but since discovered it wasnt in line with his risk profile. He told the 
business that it had a responsibility to ensure his pension was invested in line with his 
circumstances and attitude to risk and it was negligent in this area.
At the time FWM was an appointed representative of Pi Financial Ltd (Pi), so they are 
responsible for FWMs actions and for this complaint. For ease of reading Ill refer to Pi 
throughout this decision  
What happened
Several firms will be mentioned in this decision. These are:
Alexander Money (AM)  unregulated introducer
Pi Financial Ltd (trading as FWM) - regulated financial adviser
Horizon Stockbroking Ltd (HS)  regulated discretionary investment manager-in liquidation
London & Colonial (L&C)  SIPP provider
Mr F said he was contacted by AM in late 2014 who offered him a free pension review. At 
the time, Mr F was keen to consolidate his various pension plans into one scheme. AM 
subsequently introduced Mr F to Pi. 
Mr F signed a letter dated 10 October 2014 to PI saying: 
I would like to transfer my existing pension plans into a new Self Invested Personal 
Pension Plan, in order to allow me access a wider range of investments. 
Could you please recommend a suitable SIPP provider for me and arrange the transfer 
accordingly. 
Please note that I have a separate investment adviser who will be arranging the investments 
to be held within the SIPP and therefore I do not require any advice from you concerning 
this, or the suitability of a SIPP platform.
I hope that you would be able to assist me and look forward to hearing from you regarding 
this request.
On 13 October 2014 the adviser from PI replied saying:
Thank you for the letter of the 10th October 2014 in which you instructed me to transfer your 
current . Plans into a new Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  I confirm I am happy to 
carry out your request and, as discussed, I will research the whole of the market to find the 
most appropriate SIPP for your requirements. 
I have made you aware that, under normal circumstances, I would carry out a full review of 
your personal and financial circumstances and assess them in relation to the suitability of the 
SIPP. However you have specifically requested this particular vehicle and did not want me to 
look into alternative options for you.
I will have no input in the investment strategy for your SIPP funds, as you are using a 
separate investment adviser for this, and therefore I will only be responsible for arranging, 
and transferring your funds into, the SIPP.
Mr F signed a client agreement with Pi on 15 October 2014. He also signed a service 
agreement, which is undated. The service agreement indicated the service level was 
Limited advice service only.
A Fact Find was also completed on 15 October 2014. This included a handwritten note from 
the adviser, stating:
 client has his own adviser and has only asked me to set up a suitable SIPP for him. 
Client has advised that he may directly invest in shares.
The Fact Find noted that Mr F had no savings or existing investments, owned his own home 
with an outstanding mortgage of £1,800 and had other debts of £12,450.
A Knowledge and Experience  Assessment form was completed at the same time. This 
stated that, in the last ten years, Mr F had experience of bank accounts, personal pensions 
and single company shares. The value of any shares he held, or for how long wasnt 
recorded.
On the same day Mr F signed the client agreement, five Pension Replacement Contract 
Forms were also completed. They included information about Mr Fs existing pensions and 
the new SIPP, including charges and whether the existing plans held any guarantees. The 
risk category for the SIPP was recorded as balanced on two of the forms and blank on the 
other three. Three of the asset allocations were described as managed for the SIPP, with a 
strategy of growth/income. This matched what was recorded for the existing plans.
The Reasons for Switching section had ticks next to the headings:
No longer suitable for clients investment objectives
Lack of features/flexibility
Other
A section on the form headed Alternatives Considered asked whether moving funds within 
the existing contracts was an option. This was circled as no. And a note recorded this option 
was discounted because: 
Client setting up SIPP to choose own funds.
Pi sent a suitability report dated 19 November 2014 and headed Personal Pension To SIPP 
Transfer. This said, amongst other things: 
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with no advice received on the Investment of the SIPP 
and I have acted accordingly. I have, therefore, only obtained the necessary information 
from you to advise on the above area. You should be aware that my recommendations may 
have differed if I had undertaken a full review of your financial circumstances.

Background

You wish to invest in and choose your own Investment to invest your SIPP monies. I will 
have no input in where you wish to invest your monies of your SIPP and will set up the SIPP 
with a provider on your behalf. You have intimated that you may wish to invest directly in 
shares within your SIPP funds. I have given no advice on where you should invest your SIPP 
funds and have only set up your SIPP investment with the appropriate provider.

Objectives
You wanted me to recommend an appropriate SIPP into which you can transfer your existing 
personal pension plans.

Your Risk Profile
Ordinarily I would complete a risk profiling' questionnaire, however as you wished to carry 
out your own investments you felt this was not required.
And there was a section titled Replacement Business which said:
In reviewing your objectives, I have recommended that you surrender/discontinue the
contracts outlined in the Replacement Policy Form.
The rationale for this is also outlined in the Replacement Policy Form, which we completed
during our last meeting and a copy of which is attached to this letter.
The adviser outlined the points to consider for a transfer including charges, exit penalties 
(none); guaranteed annuity rates (none) and investment selection. 
It also said the effect of the charges would depend on the investment chosen within the 
SIPP.
The recommendation section said:
After doing my research on the most appropriate provider and plan to meet your needs, I 
have recommended a Multi Platform SIPP from London & Colonial. London & Colonial was 
chosen over the other providers on the original research due to their low annual 
management charge, low set up fee and quality of service. 
It is worthwhile outlining the product features of the contract recommended to demonstrate 
why it is suitable to your current circumstances and stated objectives, which I outlined 
earlier.
It went on to set out the benefits of a SIPP. The report was signed to confirm that Mr F had 
received and understood it on 9 January 2015.It was noted in the Provider section that a copy of the research undertaken with Defaqto 
Engage had been provided with the report, which outlined in greater detail the reasons the 
recommended provider had been chosen. The copy of the Defaqto report was dated 19 
December 2014. It is unclear why this document is dated the month after the initial report, 
when the report also lists London & Colonial as the recommended SIPP provider, but I dont 
think this is significant or affects my decision.
An application for the SIPP was completed and signed by Mr F on the same day, 9 January 
2015, which recorded Mr Fs employment details. It noted that his retirement age was 65. 
The form recorded that the client will do the trading on the platform. It showed Pi as the 
financial adviser and the initial adviser charges for transfers was 3% of each pension 
transfer received. 
An on-line application form was submitted by Pi to L&C. Section 2 of the form shows the 
adviser as Pi. The question Advice given at point of sale to client that takes account of the 
intended underlying investment strategy: has been answered Yes. Section 4.2 of this 
application stated that the discretionary fund manager would be Horizon Stockbroking. 
I understand the plan start date was 2 January 2015 and that a total of £185,623.39 was 
transferred to the SIPP. £179,551.89 was available for investment after £6,071.5 was 
deducted in fees and charges. 
Mr F became concerned about the advice hed been given when the value of his SIPP had 
reduced significantly by February 2017. He complained to Pi in October 2017 who didnt 
uphold his complaint and so it was referred to this service. 
One of our adjudicators investigated it. He recommended that it should be upheld. He said it 
had been wrong for the adviser not to take into account Mr Fs investment strategy when 
recommending the sale and transfer of his existing pension benefits to a SIPP. He thought 
the business had been aware that Mr F intended to invest in high risk funds, but didnt have 
the capacity or experience to take this level of risk with his pension.
Pi disagreed and the complaint was passed for an ombudsman for consideration. Ive 
independently considered this complaint and all submissions from Mr F as well as Pi.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Pi has submitted detailed submissions which I considered in full. I also considered 
submissions they made on similar cases which would be relevant here. However, Ill focus in 
this decision on what I consider to be the key material issues in deciding the fair outcome of 
this complaint. 
Pis position in summary is that:Mr F instructed Pi to recommend an appropriate SIPP provider. It only provided Mr F 
with a limited advice service on these specific instructions. Given the limited nature of 
the retainer the firm took reasonable steps to ensure that its recommendation was 
suitable in full compliance with COBS 9.2.1 and 9.2.2. Any liability could only be in 
regard to whether a SIPP was appropriate for Mr F.
Pi didnt provide Mr F with advice on the switch from his personal pension plans to a 
SIPP or on the investment through HS. Mr F had already decided what he wanted to 
do before he approached Pi. 
Mr F had confirmed that he would be using a separate investment manager. Pi 
established that manager was an authorised and regulated firm and appropriately 
qualified. They did compliance checks and there were no red flags which should 
have caused them to refuse to arrange the transfer for Mr F.
The investment strategy for the SIPP was the responsibility of HS who was also a 
regulated party. HS is responsible for Mr Fs losses and not Pi who only played a 
very limited role here. The fact that HS is now in liquidation doesnt change this.
relevant considerations
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The FCAs Principles for Businesses (PRIN) apply to all authorised firms including Pi. Of 
particular relevance to this complaint is: 
PRIN 2: A  firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly 
PRIN 9: A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and 
discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment. 
In addition, where regulated investment advice is given, the more detailed Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules apply. Of particular relevance to this complaint are:
COBS 9 which applies where a firm makes a personal recommendation in relation to 
designated investment.
COBS 9.2.1(1): A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal 
recommendation, or a decision to trade, is suitable for its client.
COBS 9.2.1 (2) says that when making a personal recommendation, a firm must obtain the 
necessary information regarding the client's:
(a) knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service;
(b) financial situation; and
(c) investment objectives;so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
COBS 9.2.2 provides:
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, giving 
due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the specific 
transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets his investment objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks consistent 
with his investment objectives; and
(c) is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio.
(2) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
(3) The information regarding the financial situation of a client must include, where relevant, 
information on the source and extent of his regular income, his assets, including liquid 
assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial commitments.
I am also mindful of the general legal position including: the law relating to causation, 
foreseeability and remoteness of losses.
My considerations here are:
Did Pi give Mr F investment advice including a personal recommendation?
If so, was the advice suitable? 
If the advice was unsuitable I need to consider whether:
Mr F would have relied on the advice or whether he would have acted the 
same way he did irrespective of Pis advice and 
If Mr F did follow Pis advice, how fair compensation should be calculated in 
the specific circumstances of this case.
advising on investments
I have firstly considered whether, based on the facts of the complaint, Pi provided Mr F with 
regulated investment advice. 
Regulated activities specified for the purposes of section 22 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) were set out in the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
included:
Advising on investments
53.  Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
Part III of the RAO listed the kinds of investment which are specified for the purposes of 
section 22 of FSMA. This included:
Article 82, Rights under a pension scheme which at the time read.
(1) Rights under a stakeholder pension scheme. 
(2) Rights under a personal pension scheme.
As far as I can see Pi agrees that they recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
SIPP provider to Mr F. This is also clearly evidenced in the following documents:
The research report which was issued on 19 December 2014 and prepared by Pis 
adviser and which -after comparing several SIPPs and providers- recommended the 
London & Colonial Multi Platform SIPP for Mr F. 
The suitability report dated 19 November 2014 headed Personal Pension To SIPP 
Transfer which said amongst other things:
My advice is based on the details you provided at our meeting.
You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning and setting up a Self 
Invested Personal Pension. (SIPP) with no advice received on the Investment of the SIPP 
and I have acted accordingly.
Under Objectives it said You wanted me to recommend an appropriate SIPP into which 
you can transfer your existing personal pension plans. 
The report then went onto outline the points to consider. It said In undertaking this transfer I 
would like to draw your attention to the following. It went on to list, amongst other things, the 
charges for the SIPP Pi was recommending, and confirmed there were no exit penalties from 
the original arrangement and that it didnt provide guaranteed annuity rates. 
Pi went onto make a specific recommendation After doing my research on the most 
appropriate provider and plan to meet your needs I have recommended a Multi Platform 
SIPP from London & Colonial. London & Colonial was chosen over the other providers on 
the original research due to their low annual management charge, low set up fee and quality 
of service. 
It is worthwhile outlining the product features of the contract recommended to demonstrate 
why it is suitable to your current circumstances and stated objectives [my emphasis], 
which I outlined earlier.
Having undertaken appropriate research on your behalf I believe that London & Colonial will 
offer the most suitable contract given your stated objectives.A copy of the research undertaken . accompanies this letter for your
consideration which outlines in greater detail the reasons for the recommendation of the 
chosen provider. [my emphasis]
I think its clear from the documents that Pi recommended a particular SIPP with a particular 
provider which they said was suitable for Mr F. Im satisfied that recommending a suitable 
SIPP provider can be considered to be advising under Article 53 RAO. 
I am satisfied that Pi were giving regulated advice on investments and provided a personal 
recommendation to Mr F when they advised on the SIPP. Therefore the obligations in COBS 
9 were engaged.
was PI entitled to rely on their limited retainer? 
Pi has said it provided a limited advice service in accordance with Mr Fs instructions. Mr F 
had specifically asked for them to recommend a SIPP product and he told them he didnt 
require investment advice. Pi says they didnt provide advice on the switch from Mr Fs 
personal pension to the SIPP or where it would be invested.
The issue to determine is whether Pi was entitled to restrict their advice to the 
recommendation of the SIPP product only. Having considered this carefully I dont think it 
was fair and reasonable for them to do so.
The purpose of Pis regulatory duties under FSMA (and COBS) is to provide consumer 
protection taking into account the differing risks involved in different kinds of investments, the 
differing degrees of experience and expertise consumers have and the needs consumers 
may have for the timely provision of information and advice that is accurate and fit for 
purpose (Section 1B FSMA). 
When recommending the SIPP, Pi needed to have a reasonable basis for believing that their 
recommendation would meet Mr Fs objectives and that he was able to bear any related 
investment risks. Mr Fs recorded objective for transferring to the SIPP was the access to a 
wider range of investments and Pi was aware that more specifically he intended to invest in 
direct equities. 
I consider the risks of Mr F transferring his existing pensions and the risks of his intended 
investments through the SIPP with these monies were related to the establishment of the 
SIPP itself. Applying COBS 9.2.2, Im satisfied Pi couldnt simply ignore the context of why 
Mr F wanted a recommendation for a SIPP and what Mr F was intending to do once the 
SIPP was established. I consider that in order to advise on the merits of setting up a specific 
SIPP product, Pi needed to have regard to Mr Fs wider circumstances including how his 
funds were currently invested and what the intended investment strategy would be. 
Assessing the suitability of a SIPP in isolation without considering the whole transaction is 
not reasonably possible.
The FSA published an alert in 2013 when they became concerned that regulated financial 
advisers were misinterpreting the rules. The alert focussed on unregulated investments 
which were introduced by unregulated introducers as these held particular risks for 
customers, however I consider the principles here still apply where regulated investments 
are concerned. The alert said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches [my emphasis] without assessing the 
advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension.. The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a
vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistaken impression that this
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in
the abstract. This is incorrect.
For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas
property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment
must form part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If,
taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is
not suitable
And it specifically referred to cases where advisers were under the false impression they 
could advise on the suitability of a SIPP in the abstract. In 2014 the FSA issued a further 
alert in which they reiterated [emphasis added]:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the 
overall advice is not suitable. 
The initial alert outlined our view that where advice is given on a product (such as a SIPP) 
which is intended as a wrapper or vehicle for investment in other products, provision of 
suitable advice generally requires consideration of the overall transaction, that is, the vehicle 
or wrapper and the expected underlying investments (whether or not such investments 
are regulated products).
Despite the initial alert, some firms continue to operate a model where they purportedly 
restrict their advice to the merits of the SIPP wrapper. 
I appreciate that the alert focussed on particular situations and it didnt mention explicitly 
situations where a second regulated party was involved to give investment advice. Pi says 
the alert was to provide guidance where there was an advice gap and the adviser was the 
only regulated party in the transaction. And this wasnt the case here. 
However, I think applying a narrow reading of the alert to only specific circumstances is 
misguided. The essence of the alert, in my view, was to remind advisers that they couldnt 
just advise on a SIPP in isolation, but that to comply with their regulatory obligations they 
needed to consider the consumers wider circumstances and whether what they were 
intending to do was suitable and in their best interest.  I want to be clear that I consider Pis 
obligations in this regard stem from COBS 9 and the Principles. The alert just provides 
clarification and sets out expectations from the regulator and good industry practice. The 
requirements of COBS 9.2.2 dont fall away when another regulated party is involved.
It follows that in order to give suitable advice on the SIPP Pi needed to consider Mr Fs wider 
circumstances and the suitability of the whole transaction, i.e. the switch from a personal pension to a SIPP, the suitability of a particular SIPP product and provider and the 
underlying investment strategy. 
I also point to COBS 2.1.2R which sets out clearly that a firm must not seek to exclude or 
restrict; or rely on any exclusion or restriction of any duty or liability it may have to the client 
under the regulatory system. So Pi couldnt limit their obligation in COBS 9 by taking 
instructions from Mr F to only consider the SIPP wrapper in isolation. 
Pi and Mr F were in an advisory relationship where Pi was the expert and they had a duty to 
meet their regulatory obligations. As explained above COBS 9 required Pi do consider the 
wider suitability of Mr Fs intended transactions when recommending a SIPP-whether he 
requested this or not. They failed to do this and therefore I consider they did not act fairly or 
reasonably when providing their advice to Mr F.
Pi Financial referred to the court case Denning v Greenhalgh Financial Services which it said 
considered the scope of duty of advisers. And the High Court decision - Adams v Carey 
Pension UK LLP, where it noted the court had considered the duty of a party performing a 
limited service and said the decision was relevant to Mr Fs case. 
 
With respect to the Adams v Carey Pension UK LLP High Court decision, that case was 
about an execution-only contract. The parties were a SIPP administrator and an investor. It 
was clear on the facts of the case that the SIPP administrator didnt act in an advisory role 
and it told the investor to seek independent advice elsewhere. The judge held that COBS 
2.1.1 would have to therefore be construed in light of the nature of the contractual 
relationship which was not advisory. I think the circumstances in this complaint are 
significantly different. Pi didnt act on an execution-only basis. They were giving advice on 
the SIPP, so the regulatory obligations of COBS 9 did apply. And as explained above part of 
the suitability assessment of the SIPP would have included the suitability of the pension 
switch and the underlying investment strategy.
I have also considered Denning v Greenlagh, but it doesnt change my findings either. 
For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied that Pi gave regulated advice on the suitability 
of the particular SIPP. They had to comply with their regulatory obligations under COBS 9 
and, in that sense, I dont think Denning is of value to that determination.   
In summary, I consider that when advising Mr F on the suitability of the Multi Platform 
London & Colonial SIPP, Pi had to consider the suitability of the whole intended transaction 
including the pension switch and where Mr F intended to invest after the transfer.
did Pi provide suitable advice?
COBS 9 required Pi to take reasonable steps to provide Mr F with a suitable 
recommendation, so I considered whether they met this requirement.
Mr F was 48, married, self-employed, with a recorded net monthly income of £4,073, 
£48,876 a year. He had no recorded savings or investments and had mortgage, credit card 
and other debt totalling £14,250. His personal pensions were invested in managed funds or 
with profits funds. His previous investment experience hadnt been quantified and he had no 
other pension provision other than the ones being switched to the SIPP.
Although a fact find was completed, only limited information was gathered. Pi didnt establish 
Mr Fs attitude to risk or to what extent he could bear financial risk (often referred to as 
capacity for loss). The suitability report suggests Mr F felt a risk profile wasnt required. 
However, it didnt matter what Mr F might have considered necessary or not in this regard. Pi was required to meet their regulatory obligations and COBS 9 required Pi to obtain this 
information about Mr F before making their recommendation. They failed to do this.
Pi was aware that Mr F was intending to transfer his existing personal pensions - which were 
collectively invested funds and would be classed as medium risk- to a SIPP in order to 
choose his own funds. They knew from the application form he was intending to use HS as 
his discretionary investment manager. 
Pi also confirmed on other cases that during their due diligence enquiries with HS, they were 
told by HS that "at present all our SIPP clients' have a portfolio containing ETFs and CFDs. 
This is consistent with the client's attitude to risk completed on the application form". Pi have 
confirmed to this service that they consider CFDs are unsuitable for retail clients and Mr F 
was a retail client. So if they knew Mr F was intending to invest through Horizon, their due 
diligence checks should have shown them HSs investment strategy was too high risk for 
Mr F.
Even if I assume Pi originally didnt know what Mr F would invest in, they should have found 
out before they gave their advice. As stated before, Pi needed to consider the transaction as 
a whole and without knowing what Mr F was planning to do and achieve, they couldnt 
reasonably conclude whether the transfer to the SIPP was suitable. 
Mr Fs limited assets and answers on the knowledge and experience assessment should 
have given Pi an indication that he didnt really have any significant investment experience.
The suitability report says Pi discussed Mr Fs experience and knowledge and it established 
he had reasonable experience as he had previously received advice on different products 
and had invested in a range of pensions and investments before. It also noted that, as he 
was self-employed and experienced in handling his affairs financially, he wanted to extend 
this to his retirement funds. 
However, I cant see that his line of work would have given him the necessary investment 
experience to invest in CFDs.  And although it was noted that Mr F had held shares at some 
point in the previous decade, he didnt have any at the point of advice and had no investible 
assets outside of his pension. So I dont think theres real evidence here Mr F was a high-
risk investor.
Mr F did have five personal pensions, but these were all managed by well-established 
providers who took all the investment decisions for the plans, which were held in balanced 
managed or with profits funds. Even if Mr F had suddenly wanted to manage his own 
pension portfolio and take more risk with his pensions, I think its highly unlikely he had the 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in CFDs which are complex. And 
given his limited assets and the fact he was investing his entire pension provisions, it should 
have been clear to Pi that Mr F likely didnt have the capacity for loss to invest this way. 
In summary, I think Pi should not have recommended a SIPP to Mr F. Pi knew-or ought to 
have known- that Mr Fs intended investments through HS were unsuitable as they were too 
high risk. Despite this, they recommended a SIPP and facilitated this investment.
They should have explained that his intended investments were too high risk and that given 
his limited assets, he couldnt financially bear the risks with his retirement funds
In my view Pi were in breach of the Principles and COBS when they recommended the SIPP 
without knowing the ultimate destination of the funds. They didnt pay due regard to Mr Fs 
interests and did not take reasonable steps to ensure that their personal recommendation 
was suitable for Mr F as per their regulatory obligations. Therefore I do not consider that Pis 
actions in their dealings with Mr F were fair or reasonable in the circumstances. would Mr F have transferred his pension to a SIPP and invested through HS anyway?
Pi say that as Mr F came to them with a stated desire to switch to a SIPP, it seemed beyond 
doubt that he would have found someone else to complete the transaction if it had refused 
to recommend the SIPP.
I carefully considered Pis argument, however on balance I think Mr F would have listened to 
Pi if they had clearly told him they wouldnt recommend a SIPP and that they considered 
high risk investments to be unsuitable for him. 
Mr F has said his first contact with AM was when he was cold called by the firm and offered 
a free pension review. Although Mr F may have signed the initial instruction letter, I think it 
needs to be considered in the context that the transaction was initiated by AM. There was no 
longstanding relationship between Mr F and AM which might have led to him rejecting the 
advice of another business. I accept the consumer did want to consolidate his various 
pensions into one plan, but I dont see any reason why he would have insisted on doing this 
through a SIPP and use this for high risk investments if he had been clearly told this wasnt a 
good idea and why.
I think on balance if Pi, as a regulated adviser and independent third party, had told Mr F 
they couldnt recommend the SIPP as the intended investments were not suitable for his 
circumstances, the transaction wasnt in his best interest and he couldnt afford to risk his 
pension in this way, I think he would have decided not to proceed. Given that Pi should have 
been aware that there was risk Mr F was being influenced by AM and potentially not given 
full and clear information about what he was about to do, they should have established what 
he had been told and correct any potential misconceptions.
If AM had continued to pressure him, he would have faced a choice between taking the 
advice of the unregulated introducer or the authorised firm. Im not persuaded the evidence 
suggests Mr F was so strongly motivated to make the transaction that he would have 
decided to press ahead with it against professional expert advice. For the reasons I have 
given above, Im satisfied that on balance Mr F wouldnt have proceeded the way he did if Pi 
had explained the position in full and recommended against the SIPP and investment with 
HS.
reliance on another regulated party: COBS 2.4.4
Pi also said COBS 2.4.4 should be considered. They say they were entitled to rely on HS 
providing a suitable recommendation for Mr F. Pi doesnt accept that there was a regulatory 
obligation for them to assess the investment in detail and certainly not to the extent than it 
would be expected from someone who recommended the investment.
Firstly, I dont consider that COBS 2.4.4. applies here. The rule broadly says where a firm 
(F1) receives an instruction from another regulated firm (F2) to carry out a regulated activity 
on behalf of a client, F1 can rely on assessments or information provided to it by F2. Pi 
suggests in these particular circumstances they were F1 and HS were F2. However, Pi didnt 
receive any instructions here from HS. 
There was no need for Pi to assess the investment in encompassing detail. But they needed 
to have sufficient understanding of what Mr F would be invested in and based on the 
information they had they knew it was high risk.
So in any event, even if COBS 2.4.4. applied, I cant see how Pi could reasonably rely on HS 
providing Mr F with a suitable investment, when they could see from the information 
provided that Mr Fs account would include CFDs which Pi considered unsuitable.fair compensation
I have found that Pi gave Mr F unsuitable advice and if it wasnt for their advice, Mr F more 
likely than not would have not proceeded with the SIPP and subsequent investment through 
HS. Having considered all the evidence and arguments, I consider it fair that Pi 
compensates Mr F for any losses he suffered by proceeding this way.
Pi says it cant be required to pay compensation which is outside of its legal scope of 
responsibility and which is too remote to be recoverable as a matter of law. It referred to 
SAAMCO v York Montague Ltd [1997] and BPE Solicitors v Hughes-Holland [2018]. 
Pis scope of duty was to take reasonable steps to give a suitable recommendation. This 
included understanding Mr Fs knowledge and experience, objectives and financial situation. 
Part of this duty was the consideration of the pension switch and the underlying investment 
in the SIPP as explained above. 
Pi breached their regulatory duties when they recommended a SIPP without establishing 
how Mr Fs pension would be invested.  For the reasons I have given earlier in the decision, I 
think Mr F would have likely not proceeded with the investments through HS but for Pis 
failings. And consequently he wouldnt have suffered the investment losses he did. I 
therefore consider the losses Mr F suffered from the high-risk investment are related to Pis 
unsuitable advice.
Pi say HS, who was also a regulated firm, had their own obligations towards Mr F and it was 
their investment strategy that ultimately caused Mr Fs losses. Pi pointed to other decisions 
at this service where findings were made that HS had caused losses by excessive trades. 
Based on this, Pi say it seems likely that the losses suffered by Mr F are down to similarly 
excessive trade volumes by HS and a failure to keep the proportion of CFDs within portfolios 
to an acceptable level. They say these were not issues that could have been foreseen by Pi 
and the losses incurred are therefore too remote. 
I recognise that HS also had regulatory obligations and its possible that their actions may 
have also separately caused some of Mr Fs loss. And Ive taken into consideration that, in 
principle, if HS acted negligently or fraudulently, such actions might represent a break in the 
chain of causation. 
In these particular circumstances, however, I dont think Mr Fs losses were unforeseeable. 
Pi knew or should have known Mr F was about to invest in a high-risk and speculative 
investment product and they agreed in their submissions that they didnt consider this 
suitable for retail clients. So Im satisfied the real risk of Mr F suffering substantial losses and 
even the risk of total loss of to his pension would or should have been foreseeable to Pi. 
Its possible that HS did excessive trades and Pi might have not foreseen the scale of the 
losses. However, Pi knew of the high risks and significant losses Mr F could suffer by 
investing his pension funds through HS in a CFD account. If Pi had given Mr F suitable 
advice these losses would have been prevented.
I cant consider a complaint against HS as they are in default. In the circumstances of this 
case I think its reasonable to award fair compensation against Pi notwithstanding any 
potential break of chain of causation. 
This is because Im putting Mr F as far as possible in the financial position he would be in but 
for Pis unsuitable advice. Mr F wouldnt have lost out at all but for Pis failings to take 
reasonable steps to ensure their advice was suitable and Pi benefitted financially [in their role as independent financial advisors] from advising on this unsuitable transaction. So I 
consider it fair that Pi should compensate Mr F. I think apportioning responsibility to Pi for 
the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
In my view Mr Fs losses flowed from PIs failures in regard to COBS and PRIN as I have 
described. I dont think the losses are too remote or that I am departing from the law. In all 
the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair compensation that Pi compensates Mr F for the 
losses he suffered by transferring his pension into a SIPP and from there into high-risk 
investments. 
Putting things right
In awarding fair compensation for Mr Fs losses my aim is to put Mr F as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice by Pi.
I think Mr F would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done. He might have remained in his existing plans or consolidated them in a new 
plan. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr F's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested. Like the adjudicator Ive taken into account 
that the annual SIPP statement indicates a new adviser took over from Pi on 19 October 
2017.
To compensate Mr F fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Pi should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Pi should pay into Mr F's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the compensation into Mr F's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr F would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
In addition, Pi should pay Mr F £300 for the distress and inconvenience causedIncome tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. Pi should give Mr F a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
transfer19 October 2017The loss figure 
should be brought 
up to date to the 
day of this final 
decision using the 
same benchmark
In addition, Pi Financial Ltd should pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum on the 
compensation calculated as at the date of this decision if its not paid to Mr F within 28 days 
of us notifying Pi Financial Ltd that Mr L has accepted my final decision. 
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr F paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the 
end instead of deducting periodically. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr F wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr F's circumstances and risk attitude. 
  My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Pi Financial Ltd to pay compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman