DRN-2054731
 
The complaint
Miss E has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund transactions she says she didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Between March 2018 and March 2019, Miss Es account was used to make £13,742.97 
worth of payments to a cryptocurrency merchant.
When Miss Es card got declined, she checked her account and saw these payments, and 
reported them to Lloyds that same morning. She tried to get help from the merchant and 
managed to get the cryptocurrency account blocked, but the merchant wouldnt help her 
further as it wasnt her account.
Lloyds held Miss E liable for the payments in dispute. They said the transactions were made 
with her card details and there was no obvious way someone couldve got them without 
Miss Es permission. And they noted that the transactions were made over the course of a 
year, rather than as fast as they could have been. They felt Miss E had been negligent by 
failing to notice them earlier.
I sent Lloyds and Miss E a provisional decision on 3 July 2020, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Lloydss technical evidence shows that the payments in dispute used Miss Es genuine card 
details. But this is not enough, on its own, for Lloyds to hold Miss E liable  it also needs to 
be able to evidence that Miss E consented to the transactions, or that she failed to keep her 
account safe either intentionally or through acting with gross negligence. Otherwise, Lloyds 
has to refund the transactions.
The account with the merchant was set up in someone elses name, at someone elses 
address, with someone elses contact details. Miss E does not recognise this person.
The merchant has accepted that the account is not Miss Es and has blocked it. 
I have not managed to find a link between Miss E and the person who set up the account 
with the merchant.
Im satisfied that this account is not Miss Es. And Miss E has gone to some effort to chase 
the merchant and to try to find out more about the purchases and how to reverse them. Ive 
not seen any indication that Miss E benefitted from these transactions. And she even got the 
account blocked. So it seems most likely that the merchant account was not set up or used 
with her consent.
There are a number of ways that someone could have got hold of Miss Es card details 
without her permission, such as from a bad faith actor in a previous payment, a data leak, or 
from someone known to her briefly taking her card and noting down the details.
Miss Es testimony has been consistent and credible. The account activity supports her 
version of events: her card was declined, she checked the account, and then she quickly 
reported things to Lloyds. According to Lloyds call notes, Miss E seemed to be genuinely 
unaware of who the merchant was or how long the payments had been going on for.
The person using Miss Es card details repeatedly kept trying to make payments to the 
merchant even after Miss E blocked her card. This seems to indicate that they were not 
acting together with Miss E, and that they were trying to get as much as they reasonably 
could out of the account. Lloyds pointed out that they left a substantial balance remaining. 
But a fraudster wouldve been unable to check Miss Es balance using just her card details, 
so they wouldnt have known how much was or wasnt available.
Miss E kept her account at a very high balance, and has explained that she was originally 
planning to move and so was expecting large payments to be coming out of her account. 
And the bulk of the disputed payments were made in the final weeks  before that, the 
fraudster kept the amounts far smaller, probably not realising how much was available and 
growing in confidence as time went on. Earlier on, when Miss E checked her balance there 
simply wasnt that much missing when compared to the total balance. So its not that 
surprising that she only noticed things were wrong towards the end, when a larger proportion 
of her balance was gone and her card got declined.
So based on what Ive seen so far, I do not think Miss E consented to these payments. And 
I have not seen anything which shows that she deliberately compromised the safety of her 
account.
Ive also considered whether Miss E was grossly negligent. I can understand the argument 
that she was negligent in not monitoring her account more closely. But gross negligence is a 
much higher standard than common negligence. Its not just a failure to take proper care: it 
implies recklessness or serious disregard in the face of an obvious risk.
But as I explained above, its understandable in Miss Es situation why she might not have 
noticed that things were wrong until the end. So while I agree that Miss E shouldve done 
more to monitor her account, I dont think she was grossly negligent in the particular 
circumstances of this case.
And so taking into account everything thats been said and provided, Im not persuaded that 
Lloyds can hold Miss E liable for the disputed transactions.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
31 Jul 2020. But neither Lloyds nor Miss E sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that Lloyds cannot hold Miss E liable for 
the disputed transactions in the particular circumstances of this case.
Putting things right
I direct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
refund the disputed transactions;
pay simple interest to Miss E on those transactions, at the rate of 8% simple a year, 
payable from the date they were last debited until the date theyre returned. This is 
to compensate Miss E for the time she didnt have her money.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this simple interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained, I uphold Miss Es complaint, and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to put 
things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman