DRN-2900385
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Bank of Scotland plc  trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold him 
a packaged bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Mr W paid a monthly fee for the URCA and received several potential benefits in return. He 
thinks that Halifax should compensate him for the fees he paid. 
What happened
I understand that Mr W has been a customer of Halifax for quite a long time. Halifax has 
told us that he first opened one of its fee-free accounts during 2002 and it sold him the 
URCA in May 2010. There is no dispute about Halifaxs records of Mr Ws account history, 
and I have taken this summary to be correct. I understand that Mr W switched back to a 
fee-free account in June 2020.
I previously sent Mr W and Halifax a provisional decision on this complaint. In that 
provisional decision, I explained that I anticipated that I wouldnt uphold the case. But I 
gave both parties the opportunity to make any further comments they wanted me to 
consider before I reached a final decision.
The time I allowed for further comments has now passed. Halifax has not said anything 
further, but Mr W has sent us several further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive 
looked into everything that Mr W and Halifax have told us or sent us about the case, 
including the comments Mr W has made since my provisional decision, and I have 
decided not to uphold it. 
Most of the new comments Mr W has made are about specific points I made in my 
provisional decision. So, I will copy most of what I said in that provisional decision and then 
discuss Mr Ws further comments. 
Copy of my provisional decision 
As Halifax sold the URCA to Mr W around ten years ago, neither party has been able to 
send us any detailed records from the time. So, I cant be sure what happened. Instead, 
Ive used the evidence which is available to decide what is most likely to have occurred. 
Mr W and Halifax have both told us that Halifax sold the URCA to him during a meeting at 
one of its branches and that a few months afterwards it also sold him a mortgage.
Mr W has told us that during the discussion about the URCA, Halifax told him that he would 
only be able to get a mortgage if he bought the URCA. Hes said that Halifax persuaded 
him to buy the URCA in order to obtain a mortgage (and that) without the need for a 
mortgage application he would have (kept his fee-fee account). Hes mentioned that he 
was swayed and convinced to buy the URCA to get a mortgage and there was no other 
reason at the time for (him) needing to switch the account.
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is that he thinks Halifax misled him and that he could have 
had the same mortgage with his fee-free account.
Halifax has sent us a copy of the mortgage offer it made to Mr W. The offer included an 
interest rate which was fixed for five years. The loan itself was in two parts (Im not sure 
why, but the reason does not seem to be relevant here) with the vast majority, over 99%, 
being in part two. The offer contained the following clause:
Part 2 obliges you to take out or hold a Halifax/Bank of Scotland current account 
(minimum monthly credits £1,000) or Ultimate Reward Current Account as a condition of 
this mortgage.
Clearly, this clause imposed two alternatives conditions on Mr W. But Halifax was allowed 
to apply such conditions to the type of offer it was making to him.
Halifax sent the offer to Mr W in October 2010; obviously, as this was after it sold him the 
URCA, it doesnt show conclusively what it said to him during the meeting about the 
URCA itself. However, Mr W has told us that during that meeting he made an initial 
mortgage inquiry, so Im satisfied that the subject of mortgages came up during that 
meeting and it seems highly likely that Halifax would have said something similar to the 
above.
I do not know whether or not Mr W would have been able to meet the requirement to credit 
£1,000 into his fee-free account each month to qualify for this particular mortgage without 
buying the URCA, but ether way I doubt Halifax misled him during the URCA discussion. It 
may well have had other types of mortgage available, which didnt have these conditions, but 
this does not mean it did anything wrong in applying them to this particular offer for a five-
year fixed rate.
Mr W has told us that one of the reasons he was swayed to buy the URCA was to get 
a better interest rate, which seem to me to be exactly what happened. I think that 
Halifax behaved fairly towards Mr W in linking the URCA to a particular mortgage 
offer.
Although Mr Ws main concern was about the link between the URCA and the mortgage, 
in fairness to him I have also checked to see if Halifax did anything else significantly 
wrong in the way it sold him the URCA.
In 2010, Halifax, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts in 
two ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-
advised) basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. Whichever approach Halifax 
used for Mr W, I would have expected it to give him a choice and to tell him about the 
URCAs costs and benefits clearly and fairly; and in an advised sale, I would also have 
expected it to check if he needed the benefits which the account could provide. 
Mr W has told us that Halifax recommended that he should buy the URCA whereas 
Halifax has said that it sold the account on a non-advised basis. In 2010, Halifax usually 
sold URCAs on a non-advised basis, and I havent seen sufficiently convincing evidence for me to think it changed its procedures for Mr W. So, I have considered this case as an 
information-only sale.
There is no dispute that Halifax told Mr W about the cost of the URCA, and Im satisfied 
that it allowed him the choice to keep his fee-free account, albeit with the possibility that 
this may have meant he wouldnt have been able to buy the particular mortgage he went 
on to choose.
In 2010, the potential benefits of the URCA included travel insurance, use of a car 
breakdown service and insurance for mobile phones. Within certain limits, Halifax also 
raised lower charges on customers with URCAs who overdrew their accounts than it 
usually applied to customers with fee-free accounts. Depending on how customers with 
URCAs used their accounts, they could sometimes save more in overdraft charges than 
they paid in monthly fees.
I think its extremely likely that Halifax told Mr W about these benefits. After all, it was trying 
to sell him the URCA and it was in its own interests to tell him what he could get in return 
for his monthly fees. Mr W has told us that he didnt want or need any of these benefits. 
For example, hes said that in 2010 he had an alternative car breakdown service, didnt 
have a mobile phone and rarely travelled. He has said that apart from the mortgage any 
other benefits were irrelevant, but as I dont think that Halifax recommended the URCA to 
him, this was something for him to decide for himself. Also, after ten years, its quite 
possible that his opinion may have changed with the knowledge of hindsight.
In correspondence with us, Mr W has specifically mentioned the fees for an overdraft. 
Hes told us that: 
(He) had an overdraft facility on the normal current account prior to the change. (And he) 
would like to highlight whilst (he) did use it, the fees weren't an issue for (him) since that 
was in place long before my account was converted in 2010. (He) only used the overdraft 
for short periods and in the run-up to getting (his) mortgage (he) used it even less to try 
and maintain a good credit score.
I dont know the extent to which Mr W used the overdraft, either while he had the fee-free 
account or after Halifax sold him the URCA, but I think its likely that Halifax told him how 
the fees for the two types of account differed. So, as with the other benefits of the 
account, it would have been upto Mr W to decide if the possible difference in fees was of 
interest to him. Hes also pointed out that Halifax did not demonstrate where the savings 
would occur and did not give an estimation of savings or monthly costs (additional fees 
on top of account fee). Once again, I accept this, but Halifax was not obliged to provide 
such a demonstration.
So, in summary, although I cant tell for sure if Halifax got everything right for Mr W, I dont 
currently think it mis-led him about him mortgage or overdraft; and I think it told him about 
the cost and benefits of the URCA. I also think it gave him a choice. 
Mr Ws further comments
Mr W has made three main points about my provisional decision: 
Hes clarified that when he applied for the mortgage, he was earning more than 
£1,000 per month, and has therefore said that he did not need URCA to qualify for 
the mortgage.Hes said he that he did not save anything from the overdraft benefits of the URCA 
as his overdraft was always in excess of the level at which he could have saved 
money. Hes mentioned that he also had to use of other types of credit, including 
other banks overdrafts, and credit cards.
Hes stressed his belief that Halifax misled him and sold the URCA to him 
forcefully, using the mortgage as a selling point. 
Ive considered these points in turn: 
His earnings were over £1,000. I appreciate this clarification. However, as I said in my 
provisional decision, I doubt the Halifax misled Mr W about the requirements for the 
mortgage he wanted; so, the clarification does not change my view of his complaint. 
He never saved form the overdraft benefits. I accept this, but any such savings would 
depend on how he used the URCA and I havent seen anything to make me think that 
Halifax guaranteed that he would save money. I also accept that he used other types of 
credit, but I am not convinced that he suffered any unfair fees or charges for these as a 
result of anything Halifax told him about the URCA.  These points do not change my opinion 
on the complaint.   
He thinks that Halifax sold the URCA to him forcefully. I said in my provisional decision that I 
was satisfied that Halifax gave Mr W a choice between the URCA and a fee-free account. I 
accept that it may well have described the URCA in positive terms, but this isnt the same as 
forcing him to buy it, and I doubt it did. Mr W has also said that he thinks Halifax advised 
him to buy the URCA, but for the same reasons as I gave in my provisional decision, I still 
think it was an information-only sale. 
Mr W has also said that he would be happy to settle his complaint for 50% of the fees he 
paid, highlighting that I cant tell for sure if Halifax got everything it right. I appreciate Mr Ws 
offer, but when I cant be certain about something, I am obliged to decide what is most likely 
to have happened. And in this case, I think its unlikely that Halifax did anything significantly 
wrong, so I wont be telling it to refund any of the fees Mr W paid. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc  trading as Halifax. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2021.  
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman