DRN-1736772
 
The complaint
Mrs A complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) gave her incorrect information about the 
funding of a claim she made on her legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs A made a claim on her policy for the legal costs of pursuing action against her former 
employers. UKI funded a barristers assessment of the claim to determine whether it had 
reasonable prospects of being successful. The barristers opinion was that it didnt  so 
UKI withdrew cover under the policy. 
Mrs A says she then spoke to UKI on the phone to ask what would happen if she went 
ahead with her legal action and won in court, and was told to come back to UKI and it would 
cover her legal costs retrospectively. So when Mrs A was successful in her case, she 
contacted UKI again to request cover.
UKI denies saying this. It has explained that it told Mrs A she could obtain another barristers 
opinion at her own cost if she wanted her claim reconsidered. But Mrs A chose not to do this. 
UKI arent prepared to cover the claim when it was declined correctly based on the 
information available at the time. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She listened to the call recordings between Mrs 
A and UKI but wasnt able to find any time when UKI said it would cover the claim if it went 
on to be successful. She said that on one call in April 2019, Mrs A asked UKI if she would 
have a claim against them if she won her case. UKI answered to say that no she wouldnt, 
as it had withdrawn cover correctly based on legal advice from a barrister. 
Mrs A didnt accept our investigators findings. She says shes telling the truth about what 
she was told. And she wants UKI to cover her claim. The complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.  
As with most legal expenses insurance, it's a condition of Mrs A's policy that cover will only 
be provided if she's more likely than not to win her case. I'd expect an insurer to get legal 
advice when considering this. UKI had advice from a barrister that she wasn't likely to be 
successful. So it was reasonable for UKI to say it wouldn't cover her claim.
According to UKIs records, it spoke to Mrs A on the phone six times between March and 
April 2019, which is around the time Mrs A says the call took place. UKI has provided us with the recordings of all six calls which Ive listened to. I havent been able to identify a time 
when UKI said  or led Mrs A to believe  that it would reimburse her legal costs if her legal 
action went on to win in court. 
I have listened to the call where Mrs A asks UKI if she would have any claim against them if 
she won her case. And Im satisfied UKI correctly informed her that she wouldnt. I think that 
was fair - I wouldnt expect an insurer to cover a claim in hindsight once the outcome of a 
case is known. In the same way, I wouldnt expect an insurer to deny funding if a claim that 
had reasonable prospects of success went on to lose in court. 
As I've said, UKI considered the prospects of success of this claim when it was made. If Mrs 
A didnt agree with UKI, she was given the option of obtaining a legal opinion of her own. 
Furthermore, she could have returned to UKI at any time throughout her court action if she 
felt she had more evidence that would change the legal opinion of her chances of winning. 
I do appreciate Mrs As strength of feeling regarding her complaint. And Im not saying she 
isnt telling the truth. She may have misheard UKI or misunderstood what it said. I have to 
make a judgment based on the evidence I have. And from what Ive seen and heard, Im not 
persuaded Mrs A was told that UKI would cover her legal fees retrospectively if she won in 
court. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman