DRN-3958402
The complaint
Mr L says Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva Life) is responsible for providing him with 
incorrect information about the value of his pension. He says this has caused a deficit of 
around £100,000 in his retirement planning.
What happened
Theres broad agreement about what happened in this case.
In summary, Mr L took out a Section 226 personal pension with Aviva Life in 1985. This 
benefitted from a valuable guaranteed annuity rate. He made regular contributions to his 
plan, which had a maturity date of 2021. Each year he and/or his financial adviser received 
statements setting out the value of his accumulated benefits.
Aviva Life provided copies of the statements. The format and content of the letters varied a 
little each year, but information was set out about the transfer value of the policy; the 
projected value in 2021 (when Mr L reached 60); what pension might be available (with and 
without his guaranteed annuity rate); what sort of policy he had (conventional with-profits) 
and how it worked; and the position on regular bonuses (none had been paid since 2001).
The pension statements reveal the cause of Mr Ls complaint. For example, in 2007 his fund 
was said to be worth around £18,500 and in 2008 this had risen to about £19,500. But in 
2009 the transfer value of his pension had risen to just over £67,000 - an increase of over 
240%. By 2019 his pension was said to be worth £173,632. But by June 2021, as Mr L and 
his financial adviser were considering his retirement options, Aviva Life informed him his 
personal pension had a transfer value of £67,851  over £100,000 less than it had reported 
previously.
Unsurprisingly, Mr L was very concerned about what had happened. He says he didnt 
receive a statement for 2020, but when his pension options pack arrived in 2021 he noticed 
the value of his fund had been drastically reduced. He said there was no explanation from 
Aviva Life and it was only after his independent financial adviser became involved and raised 
a complaint on his behalf that it addressed the matter.
In its final response to Mr L of 18 October 2021, Aviva Life explained that when his policy 
had been put onto its new system in 2009 an incorrect formula had inflated the transfer value 
of his pension. It apologised and in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused it awarded him £1,000.
Mr L didnt accept Aviva Lifes offer. He said he was on the cusp of retirement from his job in 
the construction industry and would have to carry on working as a result of the shortfall. He 
brought his complaint to this Service.
An Investigator considered Mr Ls case and didnt uphold it. He thought Aviva Life had 
recognised and apologised for the mistakes it had made. And that its offer to put things right 
was fair. Mr L disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me to review afresh. 
I issued my provisional decision in January. Mr L provided further testimony which Ive 
thought about carefully. But what hes said hasnt caused me to depart from my initial 
findings and conclusions. Ive already considered the arguments hes reiterated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint, but not to the extent hed like. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed by Aviva 
Life for Mr L. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says 
are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Aviva Life. As such, 
I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
Firstly, its clear Aviva are responsible for a serious error. It is unacceptable that it failed to 
communicate with Mr L at the point of discovery of the error in its system that was inflating 
the transfer value of his personal pension. Instead it appears to have left him and his adviser 
to discover the discrepancy. And even when a complaint was raised by them, I find the final 
response letter it provided was lacking in detail to help him understand what had happened.
I asked Aviva Life to provide more information about what assumptions and calculations had 
been driving the incorrect transfer values. And the same for what it asserts are the correct 
transfer values. It responded in the following terms:
I have now had a response from our actuarial team and they have confirmed it is not 
possible to provide calculations from before 2020 as prior to this date our system generated 
the Annual Benefit Statements automatically using the incorrect value on our system at the 
relevant statement date. It wasnt picked up until early 2020 that there was an error in the 
system for this policy which had caused the value to be overinflated on the system. A 
warning flag was therefore added to the system by our Data fix team in January 2020 to state all future values/annual statements will need to be calculated manually as the system 
was calculating incorrect Sum Assured values.
This isnt a satisfactory answer from Aviva Life. What Mr L needs is a clear and simple 
explanation of the facts. For example, from 2009 his policy was inflated by x%, because of z, 
when it shouldve only been y%, together with some evidence to corroborate the 
performance of the plan he was a member of. Because of the things it got wrong, he needs 
assurance that it has now got things right.
Having made this point, I do think its more likely than not something went seriously awry in 
2009. I say this because given Mr Ls policy was a standard with-profits pension, the level of 
contributions he was making at the time and the previous years transfer value, the increase 
between 2008 and 2009 of over 240% was very odd. And starting from the 2008 transfer 
value and projecting forward the level of investment growth that might be expected from his 
policy, the new values it provided in 2020 and 2021 appear more realistic.
In responding to the Investigators view Mr L said:
My financial planning has taken place over a number of years and I suspect like most 
people it just runs along and honestly I have really only taken an interest in the last five 
years as I am approaching the end of my working life. They have been quoting me these 
figures for a long time surely at the end of the day it cant be my fault also to say that £1000 
even comes close to a fair figure is ludicrous that is less than 1% of a devastating error on 
their part.
I find some elements of Mr Ls argument plausible and persuasive. Most people pay closer 
attention to their pension provision as they get closer to retirement. But this also suggests it 
is the past five years he considered the transfer value of his plans more closely and what his 
options were as he approached retirement. This provides some context for how long his 
expectations have been substantially inflated as a result of Aviva Lifes error.
Ive reviewed the paperwork Mr L says he wouldve been more focussed on during the 
relevant period. I note that as well as providing fund transfer values, Aviva Life also provided 
other information. 
For example, his November 2017 statement indicated a transfer value for his plan of around 
£153,000. But it also informed him that his policy would be worth just £40,500 in November 
2021 when he retired. It also set out what his annual pension would be with and without his 
guaranteed annuity rate. There is an argument these mixed-messages ought to have 
alerted him and/or his adviser to oddities in the figures.
Mr L thought that because it had taken so long for Aviva Life to uncover their mistake it 
should compensate him by making good much of what he considered was the shortfall in his 
pension transfer value. I dont agree with Mr Ls argument here.
I dont think Aviva Life should be expected to honour the incorrect quotations it provided prior 
to 2020. Thats because the transfer values shown on those statements werent something 
to which he was entitled. Further, I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr L made 
any irrevocable financial decisions based on the higher transfer value.
However, I think its irrefutable that Aviva Life has caused Mr L a considerable loss of 
expectation.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ls I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Avivas actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
Aviva Life offered Mr L £1,000 for the things it got wrong; this was a significant award. But I 
asked it to reconsider. I pointed to the scale of the expectations caused by the incorrect 
pension statements it sent Mr L for over 10 years; the fact it failed to communicate with him 
about the problem as soon as it had been discovered; and the paucity of information 
contained in its final response letter. It agreed to increase its offer to £2,000. I think that is 
fair in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to:
- Provide Mr L with a clear and simple explanation of the facts about the incorrect and 
correct basis for the calculation of his pension transfer values (as outlined earlier).
- Pay Mr L £2,000 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused by the things it 
got wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive established, Im expecting to uphold Mr Ls complaint, but not to the 
extent hed like.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman