DRN-2095292
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mr and Mrs H took out in 
2015 on the advice of Key Retirement Solutions Limited. The complaint is that the lifetime 
mortgage was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs H are represented in this complaint by their son, whom 
Ill refer to Mr H1. 
What happened
This is one of a pair of linked complaints, as Mr and Mrs H have, at the same time, 
complained about how the provider of the equity release mortgage (here, Ill refer to the 
lender as L) has administered the mortgage. The two complaints are discrete from each 
other, and my decision here deals solely with the actions of Key. My decision on the 
complaint against L will be a separate document. 
That said, the two complaints do arise from a common set of circumstances; indeed, the final 
submissions from Mr H appear to make largely the same arguments in both cases. So its 
inevitable that there will be a degree of commonality in the two narratives.  Also, there will be 
occasions in this decision against Key where I will refer to L, because context requires me 
to.
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr and Mrs H took the mortgage out with L in 2015. The terms of the mortgage provide that 
no monthly repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due to be repaid if 
the last surviving borrower goes into full-time nursing care or after their death. It can be 
repaid voluntarily before either of those events have happened, but then an early repayment 
charge (ERC) is payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Mr H1 brought the complaint on his parents behalf after they decided to sell and downsize, 
and then realised that reducing the mortgage, or repaying it altogether, would result in L 
applying an ERC. Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mr H1 asked 
for the case to be referred to an ombudsman for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. Im grateful for the invitation from Mr H1 to have an employee of an 
investment house he knows tell me why the complaint must be upheld. But Im satisfied I 
have all I need to decide the complaint fairly.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file 
to decide it.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr and Mrs H are 
consumers, and so each met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Mr H1 is 
bringing the complaint on his parents behalf.
But I must explain that, although Mr H1 represents his parents, it is they who are Keys 
customers. Its Mr H1s role is to bring the complaint on their behalf, in the same way that 
other consumers might instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. 
But this does not entitle Mr H1 to air his own grievances about Key, because he is not its 
customer; his role is limited to putting forward his parents complaint.
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether Key did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to any 
hindsight that the intervening years might have brought.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2015. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, and where 
the parties have signed a declaration confirming the accuracy of the information, well 
generally attach some weight to it.
Here, the information-gathering exercise identified a specific financial objective. That was to 
give £100,000 to Mr H1, who needed it to complete a building project. Hed run out of money 
and was unable to raise any himself. It also indicated, that Mr and Mrs H, who only had 
modest savings, were in need of some form of borrowing if they were to be able to realise 
that stated objective. So Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime mortgage would have been 
a better option. Given the overall financial circumstances that prevailed at the time, it 
shouldnt be assumed that they would have been accepted for another traditional mortgage, 
given their age. That indicates to me that equity release was probably the only viable option 
for Mr and Mrs H in 2015 given the circumstances recorded at the time. 
Ill deal now with the three main reasons Mr H1 is saying the mortgage was unsuitable and 
therefore mis-sold; these are, the interest rate, the arrangement fee, and the mechanism for 
calculating an ERC where one is chargeable.
Mr H1 says the interest rate on the mortgage Key arranged is excessive. Having no 
regulatory function means its not my role to decide if a particular interest rate is fair or not. 
So I can only comment in general terms. In any event, this complaint is about Key, and Key 
didnt set the rate.
Its normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity release mortgage, and then to attract 
further interest on a compounding basis. The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary 
terms in the point-of-sale material. Ive seen the illustration for the mortgage; it uses an 
assumption that the mortgage will last for 20 years, but it includes a narrative pointing out 
this assumption and reminding the reader of the lifetime nature of the mortgage. 
Mr H1 thinks Key should compensate Mr and Mrs H for the difference between the 
contractual rate they entered into with L and what he consider a fair rate for the lending risk 
involved. Hes told us that L is offering a lower rate now but the point is, thats now. Its not 
relevant to what was available in 2015. 
Also, Mr H1s use of typical rates available on a regular mortgage isnt relevant as a 
comparator. When a lender provides a regular mortgage, it does so with some knowledge 
and expectation of when the debt will be repaid; either in monthly instalments over the term 
(in the case of capital repayment) or in a lump sum at term end (in the case of interest-only). 
When a lender provides an equity release mortgage, it has an expectation that the mortgage 
will be repaid, but no expectation of when. So the pricing model is very different; the two 
simply cant be compared with each other.
Key recommended L as the most suitable lender based on a variety of factors, not just the 
interest rate being charged.  Mr H1 has given me no reason to consider that the fixed rate L 
was using in 2015 rendered that recommendation unsuitable.
My lack of a regulatory function means its also not up to me to decide how much a business 
should charge for the service it provides. Mr H1 thinks the arrangement fee Key charged his 
parents was too high. If Mr and Mrs H (not Mr H1  I reiterate that this is not his complaint) 
thought the fee was excessive at the time, they would have had the option to use a broker 
that charged less. I now turn to the ERC.
Generally speaking, there are two types of ERC; a fixed charge calculated as a percentage 
of the amount repaid or a floating charge calculated by reference to an investment index, 
typically a gilt yield index. Key recommended a mortgage with a floating charge linked to a 
gilt yield index. Whereas the former guaranteed an ERC would be payable in any 
circumstances, Keys recommendation of the latter meant the possibility existed for no ERC 
to be payable depending on movements in the index.
In simple terms, if the index yield  expressed as a percentage  remained the same as or 
fell below a benchmark rate, an ERC would be payable whereas if the yield went above the 
benchmark, an ERC wouldnt be payable. Unfortunately, in Mr and Mrs Hs case, the yield 
has fallen, and so presently L will charge them an ERC if they repay the lifetime mortgage or reduce it substantially as part of a downsizing move where the residual debt is transferred to 
their new home.
I can well understand Mr H1s sense of grievance on his parents behalf; hes the reason 
they took the mortgage out. But I can only find in Mr and Mrs Hs favour on this point if Im 
persuaded Key treated them unfairly by failing to meet its obligations in the information it 
gave them about the ERC to support its recommendation.
The mortgage offer also showed illustrative examples of the ERC that might be chargeable, 
depending on how the index moved, along with a detailed explanation of the mechanics of 
the index. Mr H1 may feel the documents were too complex to ensure a proper 
understanding of the mortgage. I cant know how much of the information Mr and Mrs H 
assimilated. But the documents presented the information in a format that was consistent 
with the requirements set by the FCA which regulates the sale of mortgages.
I make this latter observation chiefly because Mr H1 has expressly said this way of 
calculating an ERC is too complicated and shouldnt be permitted. For me to express a view 
on that would be for me to take the place of the FCA. Its for the FCA rather than me to 
consider if a gilt yield index is an appropriate mechanism for lenders to use when calculating 
ERCs.
I have to decide if Key met its regulatory obligations when recommending the lifetime 
mortgage to Mr and Mrs H, and for the reasons set out above, I am. Even if I thought there 
was more Key could have told Mr and Mrs H at the point of sale about how the index 
influenced the ERC and what influenced the index, (and to be clear, I dont think that) Id still 
then have to consider what theyd have done differently if more information had been 
provided. 
Looking again at Mr and Mrs Hs situation at the time and taking into account the reasons 
why Key recommended the particular lifetime mortgage it did, Im not convinced 
Mr and Mrs H would have done anything differently. 
As I alluded to earlier, Mr H1 had pressing financial problems that needed an urgent 
solution; hed turned to his parents for help and theyd agreed to do so. Key recommended 
the lifetime mortgage after ruling out other alternatives, and its advisor recommended a 
floating ERC as this option at least gave them the possibility of not paying an ERC at all.
Mr H1 says Keys advisor indicated to his parent is 2015 that the index was more likely to 
rise than fall. A prediction is just that; its not advice. Its always difficult to predict with any 
certainty and reliability the direction investment markets and indices will move from time to 
time. Here, Mr and Mrs H are unlucky in that in their case, the relevant index has moved 
downwards. Key and its advisor cant be held responsible for that.
Lastly, before they took out the mortgage in 2015 Mr and Mrs H were required to have 
independent legal advice from a solicitor  not Keys solicitor. The solicitor confirmed that 
shed explained the terms of the mortgage to Mr and Mrs H. I think that if the solicitor had 
had any concerns that Mr and Mrs H didnt understand the nature and effect of what they 
were signing, they wouldnt have been advised to proceed with it.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman