DRN-3618337
The complaint
Mr H complains ITI Capital Limited (ITI Capital) failed to provide a working trading platform 
when it took over his investment account and then took too long to transfer out his account.
What happened
Mr H told us he never got full use of his account due to technical issues, poor customer 
service and lack of urgency in the replies to his communications. He has described the 
experience as a tense and emotional financial rollercoaster. He says if it hadnt been for 
ITI Capitals failings he wouldve made trades and would been in a more favourable position. 
Mr H seeks compensation for emotional and financial distress. He has described the service 
as shambolic and has said that by the time he realised ITI Capital could accept trades by 
phone, hed already decided to transfer out and wanted no more to do with ITI Capital.
Mr H expected access to his account, which included an ISA, on 23 July 2020. On 10 August 
he said he still didnt have access and ITI Capital hadnt replied to many of his emails and 
didnt answer his phone calls. On 21 August he asked ITI Capital how much longer it was 
going to take. He said the delay was financially and emotionally draining, with no end in 
sight. He said hed prefer to transfer elsewhere if ITI Capital couldnt sort out the account. 
On 25 August Mr H initiated a transfer to a new provider. The new provider says it chased 
ITI Capital for progress on 24 and 30 September and then on 14 and 26 October. The 
provider told Mr H in November that it had put the transfer on hold due to lack of response 
from ITI Capital. Mr Hs account included an ISA, for which the transfer process was distinct. 
ITI Capital says the ISA transfer request was made on 14 September.
In the meantime Mr H said he applied pressure to the new provider as well as emailing 
ITI Capital. His email enquiries got standard acknowledgments rather than answers. He has 
said the help and advice of a third party he came across in late November was invaluable in 
helping get the transfers completed.
On 1 December 2020 the ISA transfer dates were agreed. A message from the new provider 
said it was awaiting cash balances on 18 December 2020. The ISA transfer completed on 
23 December 2020. Mr H received a message on 7 January 2021 saying the transfer was 
complete. There seems to have been some confusion or uncertainty about the different 
account balances and where funds came from.
Mr H has said that after getting control of his ISA and having a cash sum transferred from 
ITI Capital on 23 December, he bought shares with it on 4 January 2021. He has said hed 
been wanting to do this transaction for months, and he did it within days of the transfer being 
complete, but it cost him more for less stock than he wouldve got months earlier. He has 
also pointed to trades he did in a different account as examples of trades he wouldve been 
able to carry out on ITI Capitals platform, with positive results, if the platform had worked.
Our investigator thought ITI Capital should pay Mr H £350 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the platform not operating as it should and the delay in the transfer. ITI Capital 
agreed. 
Our investigator thought ITI Capital should also compensate Mr H by buying him the extra 
shares his 4 January 2021 trade wouldve got him if hed done it soon after our investigator 
thought the transfer shouldve been completed, which was the end of October 2020. 
ITI Capital didnt agree it should compensate Mr H for the change in price of the shares hed 
bought in January 2021. It said Mr H couldve got a better price on 23 December 2020, when 
the funds were already available to him at his new provider. ITI Capital said its agreed level 
of service gave it until 13 November 2020, rather than the end of October, but it agreed the 
completion date of 1 December 2020 for the ISA was too late.
Mr H didnt think £350 was enough compensation for his inconvenience and distress, without 
redress too for financial loss. He was also concerned that such an amount gave ITI Capital 
no incentive not to treat him and others as it had treated him or to fix its platform and service.
As the matter couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision. I wrote 
to ITI Capital and Mr H explaining why I didnt think it would be fair to award Mr H redress for 
missed trading profits. In reply Mr H said, in brief summary:
If ITI Capital hadnt been in such a rush to gain accounts, it could've had technology and 
staff in place for a smoother transition. But this wasn't the case. They had up to August 
to put his mind at ease that they could handle his business. He chose to transfer out 
after months of poor communication and not having a working trading platform. If he had 
reversed that decision it would have caused further delay. The transfer completed in 
January 2021 with ITI Capital blaming his new provider for the delay. 
This has been a long and exhausting process and he has no more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ive decided ITI Capital was at fault for the 
service it gave him and ought to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience its 
failings caused him. But this doesnt extend to missed trading profits. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr H has eloquently described the anxiety and frustration he was caused by ITI Capitals 
failings. In particular the failure to provide a properly working trading platform or to address 
that failing promptly in an adequate way, the delay of the transfer and the lack of adequate 
communications to keep him informed. He says the frustration reached breaking point and, 
as problems persisted, he was anxious about whether he would ever get control back over 
his accounts. He has said the matter was on his mind daily and a dreadful lack of urgency 
and accountability was a constant worry.
ITI Capital doesnt dispute that failings in its provision to Mr H of the trading platform, delays 
in the transfer and shortcomings in its service did cause and contribute to Mr H suffering 
distress and inconvenience in connection with ITI Capitals handling of his account.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that I shouldnt accept Mr Hs account of how these problems 
affected him.
Turning to the trades Mr H might have made during the period, he has explained he was 
aware of a telephone trading option but did not attempt to use it because by that stage he had decided to leave ITI Capital and didnt want to deal with - or through - ITI Capital. 
I understand why Mr H didnt want to deal with a company where, if he did buy stocks, his 
ability to monitor them or to use the account to manage them would most likely be limited or 
compromised, based on the problems he had experienced. Also it is understandable, having 
decided to transfer out and with that process proceeding, that Mr H preferred not to deal with 
ITI Capital and so paused his trading.
So I appreciate why Mr H, as a result of ITI Capitals failings, decided not to place or attempt 
to place trades with ITI Capital during the delay. Still, ITI Capitals fault didnt prevent Mr H 
from placing or trying to place those trades. Ive nothing to suggest he couldnt have placed 
his trades with ITI Capital using the phone facility on offer. It follows that any losses suffered 
as a result of not placing particular trades are in my view losses that could've been avoided 
by using that trading facility. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for ITI Capital to 
compensate Mr H for lost profits on missed trades in these circumstances.
With this and all Ive said above in mind, and taking into account all Mr H and ITI Capital 
have said, I consider it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for ITI Capital to pay 
Mr H £350 for the inconvenience and distress its errors caused him.
Putting things right
To put things right, ITI Capital Limited should pay Mr H £350 for the inconvenience and 
distress its errors caused him.
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay this sum to Mr H within one month of being notified of his 
acceptance of this decision, ITI Capital Limited should also pay simple interest on it at 8% 
per year from the date of my decision until the date ITI Capital Limited pays it to Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given and in light of all Ive said above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and 
order ITI Capital Limited to put things right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman