DRN-2039269
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) has declined 
a claim Mr M made on their dental cash plan. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a dental cash plan with WPA. In 2019 Mr M wanted to claim on the policy 
for the cost of dental implants, as a result of wear and tear. The cost of the treatment was 
expected to be around £22,000. WPA said that they would pay up to a maximum of £250 in 
line with the policy terms and conditions as theyd only cover implants as a result of dental 
injury, a defined oral problem or oral cancer. Mr M didnt think that was fair, particularly as 
hed been paying for the policy for many years. 
WPA said it would pay around £240 towards the cost of treatment if Mr M made a valid 
claim, as hed made a claim on the policy already which had been accepted. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and tried to clarify whether Mr M had 
received the treatment as WPA hadnt received a claim for it. Mr M said he couldnt get 
treatment because of the national lockdown in 2020 related to Covid-19. He was then able to 
go to the dentist. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint because she thought the 
claim had been assessed fairly and in line with the policy terms. Mr M doesnt agree thats 
fair. So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that WPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Mr M has raised a number of points but Ill focus on those which I think are central to the 
outcome of this complaint. I dont think WPA have acted unfairly by rejecting Mr Ms claim. I 
say that because: 
The policy terms and conditions say that WPA will not pay for dental implants under 
the general dental treatment or dental emergencies. Its clearly listed as an 
exclusion under those sections of the policy. That means the only sections of the 
policy which would potentially cover Mr M are the dental injury and restorative 
treatment following oral cancer sections  neither of those sections apply to Mr M as 
he didnt have a dental injury and he didnt need restorative treatment following oral 
cancer. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for WPA to decline the claim
In October 2019 Mr M said he wanted to accept WPAs offer of £241 towards the 
cost of the dental work. WPA asked Mr M to complete a claim form. Thats what is 
required by the policy terms and is standard industry practice. But he hadnt had the 
work done at that point in time. So, it wasnt unreasonable for WPA to decline to pay 
the claim at that point as the treatment hadnt taken place. I dont think WPA were 
retracting their offer to pay the £241 theyd offered to pay and I think it was 
reasonable for them to ask Mr M to claim when hed actually had the treatment 
Mr M asked to be removed from the policy and therefore the contract of insurance 
finished at the point. Mr M didnt visit the dentist until after the policy was cancelled 
and so he wasnt covered at the time he received treatment. That means it isnt 
unreasonable for WPA to decline the claim as I dont think its fair to expect them to 
cover a claim when Mr M had cancelled the policy 
Mr M has made the point that WPA should have told him the policy was no good for 
him. But this was an annual policy which renewed each year. I can see that Mr M 
was sent information about the policy each year and Im satisfied he had enough 
information to decide if the policy was right for him. He was sent a schedule of the 
policy benefits and details about the cover he had. As WPA wasnt giving him advice 
about the policy it didnt need to check whether the policy was suitable for his 
demands and needs.
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman