DRN-1139733
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out with a credit card in August 2005. Mrs S says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs S took out a credit card with HSBC in August 2005. She was sold the PPI at the same 
time. The policy cost 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 10% 
of the monthly outstanding balance for 12 months if Mrs S was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs S complaint. Mrs S didnt agree with our adjudicator, so 
the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
The PPI was sold nearly 15 years ago when Mrs S took out a credit card. Given the 
amount of time that has passed since it was sold, its understandable that HSBC can 
no longer provide documents now from the time of the sale. I appreciate what Mrs S 
says, but without more evidence, I cant say its more likely that HSBC didnt make it 
clear that she didnt have to take out PPI or that Mrs S didnt choose to take it out. 
And from what I know about HSBCs sales processes at the time, the policy wouldve 
been presented as optional.
 
Moreover, the premiums for the policy wouldve appeared on her monthly credit card 
statements - so if she hadnt agreed to the policy, or it had been added to her 
account without either her knowledge or her consent, I think its reasonable to say 
she wouldve queried the premiums shortly after the policy was added in August 
2005. So, taking all this into consideration, I think Mrs S knew the policy was optional 
and chose to purchase it because she saw some value in it in 2005.
 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example, she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover  she told us she was employed and in good health. And she seems to have 
had a need for the cover  she told us she had some work benefits and savings. But in the event of a successful claim, this policy wouldve paid out in addition to any 
work benefits and for longer. And allowed her to keep her savings for other more 
pressing concerns at what wouldve been a difficult time. So I think Mrs S couldve 
benefitted from the cover and peace of mind the policy provided.
 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. And as it was a regular premium policy, if 
Mrs S decided she no longer wanted the PPI, or could no longer afford it, she 
couldve cancelled it at any point without penalty.
 
Ive thought about everything else Mrs S has said about the sale of the PPI itself  but these 
points dont change my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman