DRN-4191741
The complaint
Mr K complains about a cash advance fee applied to his credit card by Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Virgin Money. 
What happened
Mr K has a credit card with Virgin Money. Last year, Virgin Money issued revised terms and 
conditions in relation to the credit card and expanded the circumstances under which it will 
apply a cash transaction fee. Virgin Money advised that the new terms meant it would 
classify certain transactions as a cash advance and gave the following examples: 
- Gambling and spread betting transactions
- International money transfers
- Paying off other borrowing (like making payments to wards a loan or mortgage or 
using your card to pay another credit card instead of doing a Balance Transfer)
- Adding money to a prepaid card, virtual card or e-money account
- Investment activity like binary or share trading
In July 2022 Mr K used his Virgin Money credit card to send a payment of £12,250 to 
someone with an account with a business Ill call P. When Mr K received his credit card 
statement he found a cash advance fee of £612.50. Mr K went on to raise a complaint and 
Virgin Money issued a final response. Virgin Money gave examples of transactions it 
considered in the same way as cash. Virgin Money also quoted sections of its terms and 
conditions. But the section quoted referred to foreign exchange fees and charges, not cash 
advance fees. Virgin Money didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint and didnt offer to refund the 
cash advance fee hed incurred. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ks complaint and upheld it. They didnt think 
Virgin Money had reasonably explained that a payment like the one Mr K made to P would 
be classified as cash and incur a fee. The investigator asked Virgin Money to refund the 
cash advance fee and pay Mr K £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. They also 
asked Virgin Money to remove any negative information it had reported to the credit 
reference agencies following the cash advance fee applied. 
Virgin Money asked to appeal and provided systems evidence that showed the payment Mr 
K made to P was classified as cash and advised the cash advance fee had been correctly 
applied. As Virgin Money asked to appeal the investigators view, Mr Ks complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money can change the terms and conditions associated with its credit card and I can 
see it contacted Mr K in advance of the changes to the way it classifies cash transactions. 
And, as Ive quoted above, I can see Virgin Money confirmed certain transactions would be 
treated as cash going forward when it contacted Mr K last year. With that being said, I need 
to decide whether the information Virgin Money gave Mr K in terms of the upcoming changes 
to the way it applies cash advance fees was sufficiently clear for him to have understood 
hed incur a fee for using his credit card to send funds to a third party who had an account 
with P. 
Ive noted the terms information Virgin Money provided above. In this case, Mr K sent 
£12,250 to an account with P and Virgin Money says the payment fell under the new 
provisions for a cash transaction. Virgin Moneys provided a systems screen print that show 
when the payment was processed, it was automatically categorised as cash, therefore 
incurring a cash advance fee. But I can understand why Mr K may not have understood that 
sending funds in this way would incur a cash advance fee. Mr K wasnt gambling or making 
an international money transfer. Nor was Mr K repayment other borrowing or making 
payments in respect of investing or trading. Whilst the transaction may have been used to 
make payment to an account that meets the definition of a prepaid card, virtual card or e-
money account, Im not persuaded Mr K wouldve been aware of the type of account the 
third party held with P. 
Ive considered whether the guidance provided in the updated terms information Virgin 
Money issues was sufficient for Mr K to have been aware the payment would incur a cash 
advance fee when making a payment to a third party. As Ive said above, Im not persuaded 
Mr K wouldve been aware of the specific basis of the account the third party held with P. 
And the information provided with the revised terms makes no mention of making payments 
to third parties via the credit card may be considered in the same way as a cash transaction. 
In my view, Mr Ks claim he was unaware the payment would attract a cash handling fee is 
reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. 
In response to the investigator, Virgin Moneys case handler said that whether a payment 
was classified as cash and provided payment systems evidence to show how the 
transaction was recorded. I agree the payment records show the transaction was classified 
as cash. But my view is that the information Virgin Money gave Mr K about when a cash 
advance fee would apply wasnt sufficiently clear. And had Mr K been aware that hed incur 
a fee of £612.50 for making the payment, Im satisfied he wouldve made other 
arrangements. In my view, the fairest way to resolve Mr Ks complaint is for Virgin Money to 
refund the cash advance fee along with all interest, fees and charges subsequently applied. 
Mr Ks told us that Virgin Money recorded a missed payment on his credit file when he didnt 
clear the cash advance fee. Given the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint, Im not persuaded 
thats a fair reflection of what happened. So Im also going to tell Virgin Money to remove 
any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file that is linked to the cash advance fee 
and associated missed payment. 
Our investigator asked Virgin Money to pay Mr K £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I can see this issue has caused Mr K a reasonable level of trouble and upset. Im 
satisfied that a payment of £100 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr 
K so Im going to proceed on that basis and uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money to settle as follows: 
- Refund the cash advance fee and any subsequent interest, fees and charges applied 
as a result
- Amend Mr Ks credit file to remove any adverse information reported that is linked to the cash advance fee and following missed payment
- Pay Mr K £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman