The complaint
Mr J complains that he incurred significantly higher costs hiring a car, because Nationwide 
Building Society had blocked his credit card without telling him, and then failed to answer the 
phone at a time when its phone lines were supposed to be open. 
What happened
Mr J told us that he went on holiday, and tried to use his Nationwide credit card to hire a car. 
He found the card was blocked. He said Nationwide doesnt have a 24-hour helpline, but at 
the time he called, the helpline shouldve been open. He said it wasnt. 
Mr J said that the hire company wasnt willing to accept a different card, and he ended up 
paying about £220 more for his hire car than he wouldve paid if his Nationwide card had 
worked. He wanted Nationwide to pay this back. 
Nationwide said that it had blocked Mr Js card because a recent statement had been posted 
out to his home and then returned to Nationwide. Nationwide told Mr J that this was its 
process. Weve asked about this since, and Nationwide said this usually means someone 
has left their address, so it acts to protect the account. 
Nationwide said that it didnt know why Mr J wouldnt have been able to talk to it, when he 
rang. It would expect the phone to be answered then. Its said since that it doesnt recognise 
the automated message Mr J said he heard. The message it expects he wouldve heard 
takes rather longer to play than the duration of his call. 
Nationwide said that it would pay Mr J £50 for the inconvenience. It wouldnt cover the extra 
costs of hiring the car, but it said it would pay the non-sterling transaction fee Mr J had to 
pay. 
Mr J said that he could understand that a returned statement would be a cause for concern. 
But he said he also has a current account with Nationwide, and he was using that regularly 
after Nationwide had blocked his credit card. He didnt understand why Nationwide hadnt 
contacted him. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Nationwide had acted 
to protect Mr Js card when post sent to his home was returned. He didnt think that was a 
mistake by Nationwide. 
Nationwide hadnt been able to tell us why Mr Js first call to it didnt connect. Our 
investigator noted that it was a very short call, and said it takes longer than this to listen to 
Nationwides automated system. He didnt think he could say Nationwide had done anything 
wrong. 
DRN-1627606Our investigator said that, as he didnt think Nationwide made a mistake by blocking Mr Js 
card, and because he couldnt say Nationwides phone lines were closed when Nationwide 
said they should be open, he didnt think he could ask Nationwide to pay the extra money 
that Mr J had spent.
Mr J didnt agree. He said hed provided proof of his call, and duration. He didnt understand 
the conclusion that it is possible that this [call] was unsuccessful. He didnt get the 
automated message with options that our investigator referred to. He said Nationwide says it 
will usually call or text if a card stops working, so he wanted to know why it hadnt contacted 
him.
Because Mr J didnt agree with our investigator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has explained why Mr Js card was blocked. I think it is reasonable for 
Nationwide to block a card when post is returned. It can no longer be sure that the 
cardholder lives at the address it has been given, and that raises a number of potential 
security questions about the card. 
Mr J thought Nationwide shouldve called or texted him. Nationwide said it doesnt do that in 
these circumstances. I think its reasonable, when Nationwide is concerned that post may 
not be getting to the cardholder, that it waits for the cardholder to contact it. It wants to be 
sure its speaking to the right person, so I can understand why it would wish to be cautious in 
circumstances where a questions already been raised about the contact details it holds.  
But this issue could still have been sorted out very quickly, if Mr J had managed to speak to 
Nationwide when he was trying to use his card. But Mr J said when he called Nationwide to 
ask why his card had been declined, he just got a recorded message saying he should call 
back in opening hours. 
I can hear on a recording of a call Mr J made later that day, that he mentioned the same 
recorded message. And hes shown us that he did call that morning. So I dont think that Mr 
J is just making this up now. I dont disbelieve what he says.
But Nationwide says it was open, and it doesnt have a recorded message like this. 
Nationwide cant understand what went wrong. 
Ive checked the message Nationwide plays to callers in and out of hours, and it says what 
Nationwide said it would say. So I dont know whats gone wrong here either. I cant explain 
why Mr J didnt get through to Nationwide when he called. But because I simply dont know 
what went wrong, I dont think I have enough information to decide that this was likely to 
have been Nationwides fault. 
I note that Mr J only attempted this call once. I think it would be reasonable for him to try 
again, if he understood the call centre should be open at this time. 
Ive considered this point carefully, and I dont think I can say it was Nationwides fault that 
Mr J didnt manage to speak to it at this time. And that means I dont think Nationwide has to 
pay Mr J the additional charges he said he incurred because his credit card transaction 
didnt clear. I think what Nationwide has already done provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. And, although I know Mr J will be disappointed, that means I wont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13July2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman