DRN-4098821
The complaint
Mrs L has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited removed her name 
from a decreasing term assurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and not in dispute. In summary 
Legal and General took an instruction from Mrs Ls ex-partner to remove her from a joint 
decreasing term policy. Mrs L discovered this when she called Legal and General a month 
later. 
The investigator felt that the apology and compensation paid by Legal and General was 
sufficient. He didnt recommend that it do anything further. Mrs L appealed.
I apologise for the time taken to get to this stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs L would like answers to her questions as to why this happened in the first place 
and would like policies to be put in place to ensure this doesnt happen to other 
customers in the future. She also doesnt feel that Legal and generals explanation 
accounts for certain facts. This service isnt able to tell a financial business how it 
should operate, nor direct it as to what policies it should have in place. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service doesnt regulate financial businesses  that is the role of the 
Final Conduct Authority. Rather our role is to provide an impartial, informal, dispute 
resolution service. Legal and General has said that the removal of Mrs Ls name from 
her policy was due to human error. It has admitted that this shouldnt have happened. 
It has apologised and paid compensation of £400. I find that was fair.
I do understand how distressing this has been for Mrs L, particularly given the 
background to the matter. Legal and General didnt let Mrs L know she had been 
removed from the policy, and it must have been very upsetting for her to discover this 
during a phone call. However Legal and General rectified the matter quickly and 
reinstated the cover. There is no evidence that Mrs L was disadvantaged for the 
period that she was taken off the policy. I havent disregarded her submission that 
the impact on her children would have been great had she died during this time. But I 
must consider what did happen, rather than hypothetical situations which didnt.
I accept that the matter would have caused Mrs L alarm, upset and inconvenience 
and I find that compensation is merited for the service she received overall. But Im 
satisfied the sum already paid is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman