DRN-4274942
The complaint
Mr N complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement 
(agreement) with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).
Mr N is represented in his complaint by a third party. But for ease I will simply refer to Mr N 
in this decision and not Mr N and his representative.
What happened
On 24 May 2022 Mr N entered into an agreement with MotoNovo for a used car costing 
£8,320. The car was approximately six and half years old and came with an odometer 
reading of 62,700. Mr N financed the sum of £9,172.33 (due to a finance shortfall payable 
on his part exchanged car).
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr N undertook to make 47 
monthly payments of £242.38 followed by 1 monthly payment of £243.38 making a total 
repayable of £11,635.24 at an APR of 12.9%.
On 22 December 2022 Mr N paid a garage that I will call W £728.42 to supply and fit a new 
intercooler unit and hose. W recorded the mileage as being 77,877.
On 9 January 2023 Mr N paid W £99.00 to investigate the loss of coolant. W recorded the 
mileage as being 79,345.
On 13 January 2023 Mr N paid W £316.49 to supply and fit a new coolant expansion tank. W 
recorded the mileage as being 79,473.
On 18 January 2023 Mr N paid W £709.68 to supply and fit a NOX sensor. W recorded the 
mileage as being 79,542.
On 20 February 2023 Mr N complained to MotoNovo about the quality of the car he had 
acquired.
On 20 February 2023 MotoNovo issued Mr N with a final response letter (FRL). Under 
cover of this FRL MotoNovo said that without an independent report confirming one or more 
of the faults with the car were present or developing at the point of sale, it wasnt liable to 
compensate Mr N.
On 13 March 2023 Mr N paid W £3,772.09 for various works. W recorded the mileage as 
being 79,577.
On 6 April 2023, and unhappy with MotoNovos FRL, Mr N complained to our service.
Mr Ns complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that on 
the balance of probabilities the car was, more likely than not, of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale.
Mr N didnt agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been 
said.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I would also add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, 
Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr Ns complaint is about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can 
look into this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of those goods is 
satisfactory. It goes on to explain that things like safety, durability and freedom from minor 
defects can all be aspects of the quality of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. It seems likely that in a case involving a car, the relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, mileage, and 
history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car was approximately six and half years old and had 
covered around 62,700 miles when it was sold to Mr N and the cost of the car was 
substantially less than it was when new.
 
Its not in dispute that the car had a number of faults that required repair at a not insignificant 
cost to Mr N. But Im not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, these faults were 
present or developing at the point of sale, something that I would need to be satisfied was 
the case in order to uphold Mr Ns complaint. I say Im satisfied that the faults werent 
present or developing at the point of sale because:
Mr N was able to add over 15,000 miles to the cars odometer before a first repair 
was required.
Mr N was able to add nearly 17,000 miles to the cars odometer before a second 
repair was required.
Mr N hasnt provided any documentary evidence, such as an inspection report, to 
demonstrate the various faults were present or developing at the point of sale.
The car passed its MOT on 26 May 2022, with no advisories.
The repairs required werent incommensurate with the cars age and mileage.
Given the age of the car and the miles travelled when the first repair was required 
Ive no concerns about the durability of the car or its parts.So in summary Im satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that the car was of satisfactory 
quality when sold to Mr N.
Mr N has suggested that, for various reasons, he might now be financial difficulties. If this is 
the case I would remind MotoNovo of its responsibilities to treat him with forbearance and 
due consideration going forward.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman