DRN-4327740
The complaint
Miss S complains that Carrot Risk Technologies Ltd trading as Carrot Insurance (Carrot) 
failed to add business miles to her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S purchased a car insurance policy via Carrot, who were acting as an intermediary. 
Shortly after taking out the policy, Miss S contacted Carrot via webchat to add business use 
and mileage.
Amendments were made by Carrot which increased the monthly premiums. However, 
Miss S later discovered that her total mileage hadnt been increased by Carrot, so she made 
a complaint.
Carrot recognised the total mileage hadnt been increased due to their agent not clarifying 
whether additional miles were required, and they offered £60 compensation for this.
Miss S says the policy has been mis-sold and has asked for a full refund of all premiums 
paid. As Miss S was unhappy with Carrots position, she approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She 
recognised the total mileage hadnt been increased, but she thought the compensation 
Carrot had already offered was reasonable.
Miss S didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Miss S purchased her car insurance policy via Carrot in November 2022. Shortly after, she 
contacted Carrot to add business use via webchat. In the webchat, Miss S said she wanted 
to add business use, the agent asked how many miles were needed for business purposes, 
and Miss S advised 7,000.
However, the agent didnt clarify if that was an additional 7,000 miles needed, or 7,000 of the 
already noted 10,000 miles would be business rather than social and pleasure use. They 
assumed the latter, and amended the 10,000 total to 7,000 business, and 3,000 as social 
domestic and pleasure.
However, Miss S actually wanted an additional 7,000 as business use, on top of the 10,000 
already on the policy for social domestic and pleasure.
When the agent made the change, this generated an additional premium of £577.88, which 
Miss S requested be split across the remaining monthly instalments. Carrot also sent 
updated documents after the amendments (by email at Miss S request) to show the 
changes, and whilst business use was added, the total mileage remained at 10,000 total, but 
this wasnt noticed by Miss S.
Carrot accepts their agent should have clarified whether the total mileage needed increasing 
when adding business use. And this is why they offered £60 compensation. However, 
Miss S has asked for a full refund of all premiums paid as she says the policy has been 
mis-sold.
Im not going to direct Carrot to refund the premiums, and there are several reasons for this.
Firstly, Miss S says she has paid additional premiums for something she didnt get. 
However, I dont entirely agree. The additional premium was due for amending 7,000 of the 
10,000 miles to business use. So, Miss S did actually have business use added, just not for 
the increased total mileage she actually wanted.
Therefore, Miss S did have business use from that point, and was covered for that  up to 
7,000 miles. And that is what the increase in premiums was for.
If in fact the agent had clarified that Miss S wanted an additional 7,000 business use miles 
on top of the 10,000 she already had, Carrot has confirmed this wouldnt be something they 
could have done. This is because it wouldnt have been acceptable to the insurer as it would 
have been beyond the maximum total miles they would allow. Therefore, whilst Carrot didnt 
clarify this at the time, I dont think Miss S was left in a worse position as the alternative 
would have been needing to cancel the policy.
As Miss S paid the premiums for the business mileage that was actually added, albeit not as 
much as she wanted, Im not going to direct Carrot to refund the premiums charged. 
There are also some additional reasons why Im not going to direct Carrot to provide a 
refund.
Miss S has also made claims under the policy, including whilst using her car for business 
purposes. So, it is clear Miss S was able to benefit from the policy and the changes made to 
add this cover. Therefore, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct Carrot to refund 
all the premiums, as this would effectively mean that Miss S had free insurance, which she 
was able to claim under and benefit from.
Furthermore, Miss S asked about cancelling the policy in March 2023, but due to open 
claims, she was told the full payment was due so didnt go ahead with this. Two months 
later, Miss S was informed her policy would be cancelled by the insurer due to 
extreme speeding, and she was given the option to cancel it before it was cancelled by 
them, which she went ahead with.So, Miss S had insurance in force up to that point, which she was able to claim against  and 
did. And she would have continued to have cover up to the point of renewal, if it wasnt for 
the extreme speeding which meant the policy needed to be cancelled.
Having considered all the information provided, I agree that Carrot could have clarified the 
total mileage required, but for the reasons outlined, I dont think this has left Miss S in a 
worse position as a result. And I think the £60 compensation already offered for this is 
reasonable, so Im not going to direct Carrot to do anything else.
My final decision
Carrot Risk Technologies Ltd trading as Carrot Insurance has already made an offer to pay 
£60 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Carrot Risk Technologies Ltd trading as Carrot Insurance should pay 
Miss S the £60 compensation offered, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman