DRN-3215274
The complaint
Mr M complains about the administration of his personal pension plan by Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). 
He complains that when he sold the funds in his pension plan, he received substantially less, 
than the valuation he had received from Aviva of around £151,500. 
What happened
Mr M contacted Aviva on 9 March 2020 and asked for a valuation for his pension plan which 
was provided over the phone. 
Mr M contacted Aviva again on around 16 March 2020 and again asked for a valuation 
which was provided over the phone.  
On 16 March 2020 Mr M gave instructions to Aviva, via his financial adviser, for the funds in 
his pension plan to be sold. At that point he was given a value of about £151,500. 
Following the sale of his funds Mr M received about £143,500.
Mr M complained to Aviva about the sale proceeds. He said the value of his pension had 
fallen from about £151,500 on 16 March 2020 when he gave instructions to sell, to around 
£143,500 on completion of the sell down from the funds.
Aviva didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It confirmed it had received his instructions and the 
sell down had been requested. Aviva said trading on its Platform was fully automated once 
the instruction had been submitted. 
Aviva explained that each fund manager has a different pricing point and it said most funds 
are future priced.  So, it said when the instruction was placed on 16 March 2020 at 10.19am 
the value of the units was about £151,500 but once the funds had been re-priced, the total 
value was about £143,500, which was the value displayed in the contract notes.  
Aviva said unfortunately when Mr M gave his instructions it was at a time when the markets 
were moving downwards rapidly. So, although the value of £151,468.11 was placed on the 
day of the sell, the plan holder would receive the next available price and by that point the 
value had gone down.
Aviva provided the contract notes detailing the transactions and the pension portfolio terms 
and conditions from the relevant time. It said the terms and conditions were available on its 
platform. It noted that the valuations section explained how it valued client accounts. It said 
the value seen on the screen was the most recent price from a fund manager and it was 
usually the price from the (working) day before. Aviva said that, as the majority of funds are 
priced on a forward basis, the price for a particular transaction would not be known until the 
fund's next valuation point. 
Aviva said all the trades for Mr Ms funds were placed at the next valuation point, which was 
16 March 2020, except for one fund which received the price for 17 March 2020 because it 
had a 10am valuation time. So, 17 March was the next valuation point.
Aviva said it had a team which checked each trade for timeliness, price and accuracy and 
the sale of Mr Ms funds had complied with its terms and conditions and its order execution 
policy. Aviva said it was sorry that Mr M had received a lower value, but it didnt uphold his 
complaint because it said all the correct processes had been followed.  
Mr M disagreed with Aviva and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He noted Mr Ms plan was invested in 
several different investment funds.
The investigator said investment funds, unlike investment in individual shares, are usually 
only revalued once a day and most funds have their value updated at 12pm each day.
So, the investigator said, when an investor checks the value of their investment, the value 
they see is not a live value, instead it is the value of the investment at its last pricing point. 
For example, checking the value at 11am on a Tuesday would in fact give the value of the 
investment 23 hrs earlier, at 12pm on the Monday, with a new valuation due in an hours 
time. The investigator explained this was general practice across the financial services 
sector and was in no way unique to Aviva.
The investigator considered the terms and conditions and the order execution policy for     
Mr Ms pension plan. He said when a sales instruction is given the investor would not know 
the exact price, because the price given is that of the last valuation point and the price 
received would that be of the next valuation point. The investigator said in normal market 
conditions the difference between price points is generally fairly small but because of the 
impact of the global pandemic on the markets, there was a significant difference in the case 
of Mr Ms sale.  
The investigator checked the transaction statements to see whether the transactions had 
been carried out by Aviva in a timely manner. He said all but one had been sold on 16 March 
2020 which was their next pricing point. However, one of the funds was re-priced at 10am 
each working day, which meant it couldnt be sold until the next working day on 17 March 
2020, which is what happened in Mr Ms case. 
So, the investigator was satisfied on balance that the sale of the investments was carried out 
in a timely manner and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan and general 
practice. He said he understood why Mr M was unhappy with the amount he received from 
the sale. However, the investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask Aviva to make up the 
difference because he considered the fall in value between pricing points had been caused 
by market conditions, and not by Aviva.  
Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions. 
As no agreement could be reached Mr Ms complaint was referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has explained that he became concerned about the value of his pension portfolio 
because of the movements in the markets at that time caused by the global pandemic. He 
contacted Aviva to find out the value of his fund on 9 March 2020 and he was quoted a value 
of about £165,600.  Mr M contacted Aviva again on around 16 March 2020 and the value 
had fallen to about £154,100. So, Mr M decided to sell his investments in his pension 
portfolio to cash and placed those instructions with his financial adviser on 16 March 2020. 
Aviva has explained it received those instructions at 10.19am on 16 March 2020.  
Mr M is unhappy that when he placed those instructions, he was given a value of about 
£151,500 but what he actually received from the proceeds of the sale was about £143,500. I 
understand that this was his main pension and important to him, so I can appreciate why   
Mr M would be upset at the significant difference in value. Having said that, I think it is important to consider the status of the information that was 
provided to Mr M, both when he asked for a valuation and when he gave instructions to sell. 
As the investigator has explained there is a difference between the valuation provided by a 
provider, which is based on the value of the units held in your fund/s at the last pricing point 
and the amount the investor will receive when they sell those units. 
The investigator has explained that is because fund managers have different pricing points 
and funds are priced on a forward basis or in the future. So, if the pricing point is 12pm, the 
valuation you will receive at 11am will be that of the day before, and it wont be the price you 
receive when your units in the fund are sold using that days 12pm pricing point.  
As the investigator has said, this is general practice and is not unusual. However, I have 
carefully considered the terms and conditions for Mr Ms pension plan, which were 
applicable at the relevant time because those govern how Aviva administers Mr Ms plan. I 
note those terms and conditions were available on the Aviva Platform at the time Mr M took 
out his plan. I also consider it more likely than not, that Mr M wouldve had to accept those 
terms when his application was made, in order to take out the plan. 
Section 21 deals with the administration of the pension portfolio. There is a section entitled 
Valuations which explains how Aviva values the funds in Mr Ms pension portfolio. It states:
We will value Funds at the end of each Business Day using the most recent price available 
from the Fund manager. You should be aware that if You want to buy or sell holdings in a 
Fund, these prices will not necessarily be the dealing prices as most Funds are priced on a 
forward basis.
This means that the price for a sale or purchase transaction is that calculated at the 
valuation point after the transaction has been placed with the Fund manager.
You should be aware that if a transaction instruction is given in cash terms the actual 
amount You receive may be more or less than that stipulated.
I also note the order execution policy applicable to the pension plan looks at how 
instructions by clients to carry out transactions will be handled. Section 9 is concerned with 
the order allocation for collective investment schemes and states:
9.4 Trades are aggregated according to the dealing times of the specific fund manager. As 
fund managers have cut off times for accepting deals, if dealing instructions are received 
after the fund manager dealing times, trades are carried forward to the following days 
aggregation point. This delay may result in a different price to that expected when the trade 
was placed due to price movements in the Funds traded which may or may not be in Your 
favour.
9.5 We will use best endeavours to place deals with external fund managers at the next 
dealing cut off time following deal aggregation. Deals within 2 valuation points from deal 
aggregation would be considered prompt.  
I appreciate these terms are couched in language which might be best understood by a 
financial professional, but what they tell me is that Aviva hasnt done anything wrong here. I 
am satisfied, on balance, that the figures quoted to Mr M on the phone and at the time he 
placed his instructions werent a guarantee of what he would receive from the sale of his 
investments. They were an indication of what his plan was worth at that point in time, but 
that didnt mean the transaction to sell would realise the same amount. And I note that 
Avivas operative specifically informed Mr M during one of the telephone calls that the figure 
could go up or down. 
Were Mr Ms instructions carried out in a timely manner?I can see from the transaction reports for Mr Ms pension portfolio funds that all the trades 
were placed on 16 March 2020 and used the pricing point for that day, except for one fund 
(Fund B). For that fund the pricing point was 10am. That meant that an instruction placed at 
10.19am on 16 March 2020 would need to be traded at the next pricing point, which would 
be 10am on 17 March 2020. 
The valuation point is confirmed in the brochure for Fund B which states at 4.1.1:
The price of a Share in the Company is calculated by reference to the Net Asset Value (or 
the relevant proportion of the Net Asset Value) of the Sub-fund to which it relates. Each of 
the Sub-funds will have a regular valuation point at 10 a.m. on each Dealing Day. The ACD 
may create an additional valuation point for any Sub-fund at any time.
Again, I appreciate that this may seem like financial jargon, but I am satisfied on balance 
that Mr Ms instructions were carried out in a timely manner by Aviva and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the pension plan, with the trades being placed on the next available 
pricing point. 
While I do sympathise with Mr Ms position, I agree with the investigator that it wouldnt be 
fair to require Aviva to make up the difference between the quoted value and the actual 
amount received, as I dont consider that Aviva did anything wrong here. Unfortunately for 
Mr M, market conditions at the relevant time were such, that the difference between pricing 
points was significant.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman