DRN-4074542
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice JLT Wealth Management Limited (JLT) gave to him 
concerning transferring the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused him a financial loss.
The firm that gave Mr W advice was operating under a different name to JLT. But as JLT has 
confirmed it is responsible for responding to the complaint, for ease of reading, I will only 
refer to it in this decision.
What happened
Mr W was a deferred member of his employers DB pension scheme. In February 2010, his 
employer wrote to him and explained that it was looking at ways to control its pension costs, 
including reducing the number of deferred members of the scheme. It said Mr Ws pension 
had a transfer value of £80,404, which it would enhance by £8,040 if he transferred to a 
personal pension. Alternatively it said he could take a reduced enhancement as a cash lump 
sum, which net of tax and National Insurance was £6,279. The employer said that if Mr W 
was considering accepting its offer, he would need to take professional advice, which the 
employer would pay for. It also said that if Mr W wanted to stay in the DB scheme then he 
need not take any further action.
Mr W expressed an interest in the offer and the employer sent him a password so he could 
log onto JLTs website and complete a fact-find questionnaire to begin the advice process.
Mr W completed the fact-find. Amongst other things he said he was 42 years old, married 
with dependent children. He said he was risk averse, but could tolerate moderate volatility 
in the value of his pension fund. He said he intended to take all of the enhancement offer as 
a cash lump sum to buy a car.
In March 2010 JLT produced a suitability report setting out its analysis and 
recommendations. It recommended that Mr W should not transfer out of his DB scheme. In 
brief it said it didnt believe a personal pension would meet the growth rate required (the 
critical yield) to match the benefits from the DB scheme. It said Mr Ws benefits in retirement 
could be significantly reduced by transferring.
In April 2010 Mr W rang JLT. He said hed already returned forms to transfer out of the DB 
scheme. JLT said his employer had sent the transfer forms to everyone whod completed a 
fact-find questionnaire. But that, as its analysis was that Mr W would likely be significantly 
worse off by transferring and its recommendation was that he shouldn't transfer, the forms 
werent applicable to his situation. Mr W asked what he should do if he still wanted to 
transfer out of the DB scheme. JLT said it strongly recommended he remain in the DB 
scheme. It repeated that he would be significantly worse off in retirement by transferring. 
And as such doing so wasnt in his best interests. It asked Mr W why he wanted to go ahead 
with a transfer against its advice. He said that basically he could do with the money. JLT 
told Mr W that by taking the money then, he would have a potential income shortfall in 
retirement.
JLT read out some statements and asked Mr W if he agreed with them. Those included:
Hed read and understood JLTs suitability report. And he was satisfied he'd been 
given enough information and understood the risks involved.
By transferring it was highly likely his retirement benefits would be less than he would 
receive from the DB scheme.
That once transferred the process would be irreversible.
Mr W agreed to each of the statements individually. JLT then said it could arrange the 
transfer for him but it would do so on an insistent client1 basis. 
JLT then wrote to Mr W enclosing an illustration of what a personal pension might be worth 
to him in retirement. JLT repeated that its recommendation was he should not transfer out of 
the scheme. It said that by doing so his retirement benefits could be dramatically reduced. It 
said it strongly recommended he seek further advice before deciding to transfer. It repeated 
its earlier warning that Mr W could be worse off in retirement and he needed to understand 
the risks he was taking. 
Mr W completed the relevant forms for the transfer to go ahead. JLT replied. While noting 
receipt of the forms for the transfer it repeated its earlier warning that Mr Ws retirement 
income could be dramatically reduced by transferring. It said it couldnt accept 
responsibility for Mr Ws decision not to follow its advice. And it asked him to contact it if he 
wanted to cancel the transfer. Mr W didnt do so and the transfer went ahead. 
In 2022 Mr W complained to JLT about the suitability of its transfer advice. JLT didnt uphold 
his complaint. In short it said its advice was that he shouldnt transfer.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She recommended 
Mr Ws complaint be upheld. In brief she said that she didnt believe Mr W had fully 
understood the implications of transferring. He didnt provide adequate reasons for going 
against JLTs advice but it didnt do enough to challenge that and instead went ahead with 
the transfer on an insistent client basis. 
JLT didnt agree with our Investigators assessment of the complaint so its been passed to 
me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
1 Where a client chooses to go against a financial advisers recommendation, they are often referred
to as an insistent client.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of JLTs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. But the clients best interests rule (COBS 2.1.1R) and PRIN 7 are 
particularly important when considering treating a client as insistent. So, JLTs 
recommendation had to be clear and Mr W had to have understood the consequences of 
going against the recommendation.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those our investigator gave.
Financial viability
In its suitability report JLT set out that the critical yields were too high to be achieved by 
reinvesting the DB funds in a personal pension. It said for that reason it didn't recommend 
that Mr W should transfer out of his DB scheme. I agree with JLTs analysis. That is, it was 
more likely than not that Mr W would be worse off in retirement by transferring. And as this 
isn't disputed by either party to the complaint, I see no reason to further analyse the viability 
of the transfer when it clearly wasnt viable.
Did JLT fairly treat Mr W as an insistent client?
JLTs said that, on more than one occasion, it gave Mr W clear advice not to transfer out of 
the DB scheme. But, because he chose to go against that advice it treated him as an 
insistent client.
Theres no doubt JLTs suitability report said its advice was that Mr W should not transfer out 
of his DB scheme. But I think there were flaws in JLTs process which mean it wouldnt have 
been fair for Mr W to rely on its recommendation not to transfer.
Its notable that JLTs suitability report didnt include specific details of an alternative 
personal pension for comparison purposes. I find this undermines the advice process. That's 
because the information JLT provided in its suitability report was limited and essentially 
relied on a comparison of the critical yield against the level that JLT thought Mr Ws personal 
pension might reasonably grow at. And while JLT said what the relevant critical yields were, 
it didnt show what growth rate Mr W could expect from a personal pension or what that 
would mean to him in monetary terms in retirement. I think it would therefore have been very 
difficult, if not impossible, for Mr W to make a direct comparison between what he would be 
giving up by transferring and what he was likely to receive if he did. So I think Mr W had 
insufficient information to go off in order to decide if going against JLTs advice was truly in 
his best interests. And I dont see how JLT could expect Mr W to make an informed decision about going against its recommendation when it hadn't given him all the information he 
needed in order to make that decision. 
A clearer process would have been for JLT to provide its advice and recommendations as a 
whole, taking into account Mr Ws objectives and attitude to risk. That advice should have 
considered the overall picture  both of transferring out of the DB scheme together with the 
choice of alternative pension and Mr Ws desire to take the additional enhancement payment 
as a lump sum immediately. Only then should JLT have clearly set out in one document why 
transferring out of the scheme wasnt in Mr Ws best interests.
JLTs recommendation was that it wasnt in Mr Ws best interests to transfer. But it made it 
easy for him to do so anyway. I say this because when Mr W spoke with it and asked what 
the process would be if he wanted to transfer anyway JLT did very little to challenge why he 
would want to do that. It did ask him what his reasons for going ahead with the transfer were 
and Mr W replied that he could do with the money. But JLT didnt find out what he wanted 
the money for or whether he could raise it by another means without giving up the 
guaranteed benefits from his DB scheme. This is something Id have expected to see as part 
of a robust advice process.
Further, Mr W had said in the fact-find questionnaire that he intended to take the 
enhancement as cash immediately. Although on that occasion Mr W had said he wanted the 
money for a car. So hed made it clear from an early stage he was already leaning towards 
transferring so he could have access to some instant cash, but, again, I've seen no evidence 
JLT probed why Mr W wanted to do that. Mr W did say he could do with the money, but JLT 
didnt ask him what he wanted to achieve by taking the enhancement as cash. And, as I've 
said above, I can't see that it explored whether he could raise the cash by some other 
means.
Also, JLT didnt capture any detail about whether Mr W had debts or savings. Nor did it 
gather any information about what Mr Ws regular outgoings were. But, from the information 
he's given us, it appears he was managing his finances effectively. So, while I don't doubt 
that the opportunity to receive some ready cash was a mouth-watering prospect, there's no 
evidence he had any actual need for it. But, while JLT did warn him hed likely be worse off 
in retirement by transferring, I can't see that it made a concerted attempt to explain to Mr W 
that giving up guaranteed pension benefits for a cash lump sum that wasnt obviously 
needed was not in his best interests.
Similarly, JLT didnt gather any information about what Mr Ws likely income needs would be 
once he retired. Mr W had said his DB scheme would make up the majority of his pension. 
But I can't see that JLT established how Mr W intended to fund his retirement, if he 
transferred to a personal pension in line with his attitude to risk, neither did it make it clear to 
him in terms of actual figures how much worse off he could potentially be.
Given JLT was well aware there was very little prospect of a personal pension matching the 
DB scheme benefits in monetary terms, then other reasons for transferring needed to be 
sufficiently compelling. But JLT didnt explore this with Mr W in any detail. Saying he could 
do with the money isn't a financial objective. And I dont see how JLT could give Mr W 
suitable advice in respect of his objectives without knowing the basic facts about what he 
wanted the cash for. Neither have I seen evidence that JLT effectively advised Mr W about 
the long-term nature of pension planning  such as the need for a pot of funds to provide an 
income for many years ahead.
JLTs role was to discern what Mr Ws wants and needs were and why he wanted to transfer 
his pension. It wasnt simply to do what he wanted without appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives for doing so whilst discussing the implications of those actions with 
him. While it did give him risk warnings, I've seen little evidence of such a challenge even 
though that would have been in Mr Ws best interests. Indeed, as I've said above, I've seen 
no evidence JLT explored with him exactly what he wished to do with the enhanced payment 
and why. So, I dont think JLT met its obligations to challenge Mr Ws objectives in light of 
what he would be giving up. That also meant it didnt appropriately consider whether Mr Ws 
aims could be met through other means without giving up the benefits from his DB scheme 
at all.
JLT did give Mr W advice not to transfer out of his DB scheme and did warn him that he 
could be worse off in retirement by doing so. But I don't think it can fairly rely on its 
recommendation for Mr W not to transfer. Thats because he apparently made his initial 
decision to go against its advice without having all the facts available to him.
Also, after he said he wanted to go ahead JLT then made a recommendation to transfer to a 
personal pension. But I can't see that it gave him a side-by-side comparison of what he was 
likely to receive in retirement from his DB scheme against what hed likely receive from the 
personal pension. That would have been particularly helpful as, by taking the enhancement 
as cash, it would be reduced to £6,279 net. And, I think that JLT should have given Mr W an 
indication of what he could likely receive from the personal pension (based on reasonable 
assumptions) compared to what the DB scheme would pay him. It should then have asked 
him to think about whether it was worthwhile giving up that guaranteed income in retirement 
for a sum of £6,279. Had it done that I think its likely Mr W would have thought again about 
whether transferring was in his best interests. 
JLT was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr W about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr Ws DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing a guaranteed income for 
retirement. But Mr Ws chosen path was to give up that income in retirement for the chance 
of getting hold of a lump sum of cash, for which he had no obvious need, rather than long-
term retirement planning. And I don't think that applying an insistent client label to someone 
when they express that their preference is not to follow advice, is the same as applying the 
rigorous process of arriving at a fair determination of who an insistent client really is. So, 
given the flaws described above in JLTs advice process, I dont think it fully and accurately 
informed Mr W about his position.
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the 
process JLT followed meant it was fair to truly regard Mr W as an insistent client. So, I don't 
think JLT acted in his best interests. Neither do I think it treated him fairly.
Ive thought about whether Mr W would have transferred out of the DB scheme had he been 
given all the information essential to him making an informed decision. But Im not 
persuaded he would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against JLTs 
advice if it had brought all of the important points to his attention. I say this because Mr W 
was an inexperienced investor and described himself as risk averse. But he was taking a 
significant risk of losing the guarantees from his DB scheme by transferring out of it. So, I 
think if JLTs advice had been suitably robust Mr W would have remained in the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think JLT should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for JLT to put Mr W, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would have most 
likely remained in the DB scheme if JLT had given suitable advice. 
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, JLT should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts JLTs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, JLT may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr W 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
JLT Wealth Management Limited pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman