DRN-3259888
The complaint
 Mr B complains about American Express Services Europe Ltds (AESEL) refusal of his
request for a refund. 
What happened
 I set out the background to Mr Bs complaint in the provisional decision I issued last year. 
However, for ease of reading I set out the background again here.
In February 2017 the computer that Mr B complains about was purchased
from a retailer. The retailer is a company I will call A. In November 2017 a protection plan
was bought for that same computer.
In August 2019 Mr B experienced a problem with how the computer was working, it appears
that there was liquid damage to the computer, but it is not clear if this is what caused the
problem in this instance.
Later in August 2019 Mr B made a visit to A to get the computer repaired. A agreed to repair
the computer but it had to order parts so it could not start the work immediately. In the
meantime, it seems A suggested Mr B might want to think about getting the data backed up
prior to the repair. This service is not offered by A, but A did recommend another supplier for
this work. It appears this supplier is someone that A recognises as an authorised repairer.
However, the business A recommended was closed so Mr B chose to go to another supplier
of his own choosing instead. Ill call the supplier Mr B chose S.
The invoice from S suggests it did the following work:
Liquid damage [name of computer] 13 repair logic board replacement core i5 256Gb SSD
Touchbar replacement, to upgrade to 512 SSD paying the difference in price. Price paid is
including £200 for data recovery.
Mr B paid S £599.99 in total. Mr B paid S using his credit card supplied by AESEL. As noted
above S replaced some of the original parts in addition it appears that S disposed of the 
parts it replaced. In any event the parts were not returned to Mr B. 
Mr B then went back to A for the repair. However, A declined to carry out the repair because 
original parts had been removed from the computer and replaced with new parts by S. It 
seems that the computer is no longer working even with the replacement parts in place.
Mr B suggests that he only ever asked for data backup. Instead S went ahead and also
carried out repairs including replacing the logic board which Mr B indicates was
unnecessary. In any event Mr B also suggests that the repairs failed. Mr B considers this to
be a breach of contract. To support his case Mr B got an expert report done by a third party 
company I will call T. I will look at the conclusions reached by T later in this decision. Mr B 
suggest Ts report supports his stance. Mr B also complains that S represented that it was 
certified by A when it is not.
As I have already mentioned Mr B used his AESEL credit card to pay S. On this basis Mr B
thought he had rights against AESEL under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
(Section 75). Specifically, he indicated that since he could (in his opinion) bring a claim
against S for misrepresentation and breach of contract then he had the right to bring a like
claim against AESEL. For this reason, Mr B complained to AESEL. Mr B asked for a refund
of the full cost of his computer, the protection plan, and the fee he paid to S (in total
£3,137.99).
AESEL took a look at Mr Bs complaint. Initially it refused Mr Bs request for a refund on two
grounds. The first ground being it did not think there was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier
relationship. This is a type of relationship that must be in place to make a valid claim under
Section 75. (it seems AESEL is no longer relying on this ground). The second ground being
there had been no breach of contract in any event.
Mr B was and remains dissatisfied with AESELs response. Therefore, he came to our
service.
I took a look at Mr Bs complaint and I issued a provisional decision. I set out below what I 
said in the provisional decision the findings I made and the reasons for those findings.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr B is relying on Section 75. I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a 
complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that 
a party might have under Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Bs 
complaint, I have to take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is 
relevant law. Therefore, Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach 
the same outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mr B pursued a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. Our service is an informal alternative to the courts.
Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in 
relation to a transaction financed by a credit agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, then he has a like claim against the 
credit provider. It follows that if Mr Bs complaint falls within the relevant parameters and he 
is able to demonstrate that he has any claim against S in relation to misrepresentation or 
breach of contract then he might have a like claim against AESEL. [It also follows I would 
need to take this into account when determining his complaint].
However, there is a difficulty for Mr B in the first instance, it is this, who owns the computer 
and who has made what loss? I ask this because the original purchase invoice and proof of 
delivery from A suggests to me that the computer is owned by a limited company. I will call 
the limited company D. Whereas Mr Bs credit card account is his personal account.Therefore, on the face of it at least, any loss that has been made in relation to the computer 
and the protection plan is the limited companys loss not Mr Bs. Ill talk about loss later in 
this decision. However, for the reasons I have set out, unless I can be persuaded that the 
computer belongs to Mr B in his personal capacity there would be no loss in relation to the 
computer or the protection plan to compensate him for. Mr B might want to provide further 
information about this, and I will consider it before I make my next decision.
If I put aside, for the moment, the question of ownership and loss the next question is has 
there been a material misrepresentation on the part of S to Mr B?
For the purposes of this complaint, misrepresentation means a false statement of fact that 
induced Mr B into entering into the contract with S and caused him loss. He suggests S 
represented itself as a certified specialist for products manufactured and sold by A. I think 
the meaning of certified here is clear. I have seen Ss business card and it says this. I think S 
was representing itself as being authorised by A to carry out repairs to its products. That 
said, I have not seen anything [persuasive] to suggest that S was not an authorised repairer. 
So currently I cant say this was a misrepresentation.
However, the issue of the breach of contract is more complex. It appears that Mr B might 
have been acting as a consumer when he employed S rather than in the course of his 
business. If he was acting as a consumer then he was entitled to expect S to have carried 
out the work with reasonable skill and care and that the goods supplied would be of 
satisfactory quality. I accept that the experts report suggested the problem with the 
computer went beyond the logic board. But the expert also said the logic board provided by 
S was not fit for the purpose for which it was supplied. And being fit for purpose is an 
element of satisfactory quality. That being so, I think it is fair and reasonable that AESEL 
should have to refund Mr B for the cost of the logic board - £399.99. It does seem the data 
backup was done so I cant fairly ask AESEL to refund Mr B for this.
But it appears that Mr B is claiming more losses than this as I mentioned above. When Mr B 
initially complained he asked for the cost of the computer and the protection plan too as well 
as the cost of the repair. During the course of the complaint he then appeared to have 
decided not to ask for a refund for the protection plan. But subsequently he has talked about 
consequential losses, by which it appears he means the cost of the computer and the 
protection plan. I am not currently satisfied that the computer does belong to Mr B therefore 
any loss relating to being unable to get A to repair the computer now is not his loss. It follows 
it is not fair and reasonable to ask AESEL to refund him for this.
Moreover, it follows that if the computer belongs to the limited company not to Mr B only the 
limited company had an insurable interest in the computer so only it would have made a loss 
in relation to the plan. But in any event it seems based on the information I have seen that 
the protection plan had already been breached (due to the fluid damage) and was no longer 
available before Mr B ever took the computer to A [and S] for repair. On that basis I have no 
proper basis for telling AESEL it must compensate Mr B for this.
Mr B has suggested that S acted inappropriately in disposing of the original parts it replaced 
and he wants them back. It would not be unreasonable for Mr B to ask for the parts if they 
were still around, but it appears they are long gone. So, to give him the parts back seems to 
be impossible. I thought about whether he ought to be compensated for these parts instead 
(if I were to accept, which I dont, that the computer belongs to him). But it is not clear what 
value the parts had. For example, it appears A was going to replace the logic board and it 
appears it was corroded. On this basis, I dont agree that AESEL has to compensate him for 
this.
Mr B appears to remain dissatisfied with AESELs complaint handling. He also seems to be 
referring to an earlier separate complaint. But the issues here were not straightforward, AESEL had to investigate them. And I see nothing about how AESEL behaved that makes 
me conclude it would be fair and reasonable to ask it to compensate Mr B. I will make no 
comment on the separate complaint as I have no power to look at it as part of this complaint.
I dont agree with AESEL in suggesting that Mr B might have avoided this whole course of 
events if he had just have gone to the supplier AESEL recommended. Mr B was directed to 
seek out a repairer who was authorised by A. I accept that it was what he thought he had 
done, albeit the repairer he chose was not the one A recommended.
For these reasons I came to the following decision.
My provisional decision is that American Express Services Europe Ltd should:
If Mr B has not paid off the £399.99 it should rework Mr Bs credit card as if he had
never made that payment to S.
If Mr B has paid off the £399 it should refund this sum to him directly with interest.
The interest should be at the rate of 8% simple per year and should run from the date
of payment until the date of settlement.
If AESEL considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate
showing this if he asks for one, and it if can do so, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I invited the parties to respond to my provisional decision. As far as I am aware we have 
received no response from either party.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have received no new information or responses to my provisional decision. It follows that I 
have reached the same conclusions for the same reasons that I did in my provisional 
decision and which I have gone through again above.
  
My final decision
  My final decision is that that American Express Services Europe Ltd should:
If Mr B has not paid off the £399.99 it should rework Mr Bs credit card as if he had
never made that payment to S.
If Mr B has paid off the £399 it should refund this sum to him directly with interest.
The interest should be at the rate of 8% simple per year and should run from the date
of payment until the date of settlement.
If AESEL considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr B a certificate
showing this if he asks for one, and it if can do so, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman