DRN-2646932
The complaint
Miss K complains that The Funding Corporation (2) Limited (TFC) irresponsibly gave her a 
credit agreement she couldnt afford.  
What happened
In August 2013, Miss K acquired a used car using a credit sale agreement from TFC. The 
agreement was secured by way of a bill of sale over the car. The cash price of the car was 
£9,625 and Miss K paid a deposit of £800.She was required to make an initial payment of 
£250 followed by 59 monthly payments of £349.94 and a final payment of £544.94. The total 
repayable was around £22,000. 
In October 2013, the car was stolen and Miss Ks insurance company made a payment to 
TFC. However, this still left a shortfall on the outstanding balance which Miss K said she 
couldnt afford to pay. 
Miss K later raised a complaint with TFC to say the agreement had been unaffordable from 
the outset and it hadnt completed adequate affordability checks. TFC didnt agree it had 
been irresponsible in lending to Miss K. it said it had verified her income and asked her to 
complete a detailed expenditure statement which confirmed she had around £430 per month 
in disposable income to make the repayments on the credit agreement. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think TFC had properly 
assessed the income information it had gathered during the application process as it 
appeared Miss Ks income was much lower than it had recorded. She said by using more 
accurate income figures it showed that Miss K didnt have enough left each month to meet 
the repayments. 
TFC disagreed, it said that Miss Ks income was actually higher than had been recorded. 
This was because she had started a second job the week she signed the agreement and this 
supplemented her income by an additional £400 per month. Our investigator didnt agree this 
made a difference because even using the higher figures this left Miss K with only around 
£80 per month for emergencies or unexpected costs for car maintenance. She didnt think 
this demonstrated the agreement was affordable or sustainable. 
TFC said the investigator had calculated the income incorrectly and Miss K had in excess of 
£200 left over each month after paying TFCs credit agreement. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TFC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, I think TFC gathered a reasonable and proportionate amount of 
evidence and information from Miss K about her ability to repay. I say this because it 
gathered evidence of her income and asked her details about her committed expenditure. It 
also gathered several documents to verify Miss Ks various sources of income which were 
from two part time jobs and several different benefits and tax credits. I understand it also 
completed a credit check although it hasnt provided a copy of what it saw. However, just 
because I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a 
fair lending decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed.
There has been disagreement about the income information that was recorded by TFC and 
what the evidence it gathered showed. Ive set out below the key points. 
- Miss K was employed part time working 25 hours per week and earning around £670 
per month. This was verified by payslips.
- She started a second part time job in August 2013 working 15 hours per week and 
earning around £400 per month. This was verified by an employment contract.
- She received around £907 per month in tax credits. This was verified by reviewing 
tax credit documents.
- She received around £297 in benefits. 
In total this showed that Miss K received around £2,274 each month (although £2,120 was 
declared on the income and expenditure). On her application she had detailed her 
committed monthly expenditure and this came to around £1,690, leaving her with £584 
(although this was £430 on the information TFC gathered) in disposable income each month. 
On this basis TFC has said the agreement was clearly affordable and sustainable to her. But 
I dont agree that taking these figures as they are was a reasonable way to assess what was 
affordable and sustainable.
I say this because Miss K declared that her existing monthly credit commitments were only 
£30 per month towards a credit card and £5 towards another debt. However, Ive seen that 
Miss K had considerably more outstanding credit commitments than was declared on the 
income and expenditure form. I can see that she also had an outstanding loan which she 
was paying around £173 per month towards. Further, she had a second loan she was paying 
around £32 per week towards (circa £140 per month). When these two loan repayments are 
added to the expenditure figures Miss K declared it means she didnt have enough income to 
make the monthly repayments towards TFCs agreement, even if the highest income figure 
was used.
Although TFC hasnt provided us with a copy of the credit check it completed, Im persuaded 
its more likely than not these additional loans would have been visible to TFC in the credit 
check it carried out. It therefore ought to have seen that the expenditure information Miss K 
declared wasnt accurate and adjusted the figures based on what it could see. Had it done 
so it would have seen that Miss K didnt have sufficient disposable income to sustainably 
afford the monthly repayments. Im therefore satisfied that TFC didnt make a fair lending 
decision. 
As I dont think TFC acted fairly in granting the finance to Miss K, I think it should end the 
agreement with nothing further to pay. It should also refund all the payments Miss K has 
made towards the agreement (including her deposit), minus an amount for any fair usage 
she had of the car. I understand the insurance company paid TFC for the loss of the car and 
its reasonable that TFC retains that payment as this wasnt a payment Miss K made herself.
The car was stolen only two months after the agreement began so Miss K should only have 
to pay for the months she was in possession of the car. However, I dont think the monthly repayments under the agreement are a fair reflection of what fair usage ought to be. This is 
because a large proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest. 
There isnt an exact formula for working our what fair usage ought to be. However, in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on 
the agreement, the likely use Miss K had of the car and the costs she would likely have 
incurred to stay mobile if shed never entered into this agreement. In doing so, I think a fair 
amount Miss K should pay is £200 for each month she had use of the car. This means TFC 
can only retain £400 for fair usage. 
Anything Miss K has paid on top of this figure should be treated as an overpayment and 
refunded to her, along with 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement. TFC should also remove any adverse information it has recorded on her credit 
file in relation to this agreement. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct The Funding Corporation (2) 
Limited to:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund all the payments Miss K has made (including her deposit), less £400 for her 
fair use of the car. 
Add 8% simple interest per year to each overpayment Miss K has made from the 
date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on her credit file in relation to this 
agreement. 
If TFC considers tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award it should 
provide Miss K with a certificate showing how much its taken off, so she can reclaim that 
amount, if she is eligible to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman