DRN-3804581
The complaint
Mr A complained to Advantage Finance Ltd (AF) that it didnt treat him fairly 
when it terminated his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
AF entered into a credit agreement with Mr A on 21 October 2020 to acquire a used car. 
The cash price of the car was £7,750 and the total amount owing under the agreement 
(including interest and fees) came to £14,088. This was to be paid with an advance of 
£250, followed by 59 monthly instalments of £227 and a final payment of £427 (all figures 
rounded).
The credit to buy the car was granted by AF under a hire purchase agreement meaning 
Mr A would own the car when the credit had been repaid. AF was the owner until that 
point and Mr A was, in essence, paying for the use of it. As the owner of the car bought 
from the dealership, AF was responsible for the quality of the car.
Mr As direct debit payments for December 2020 and January 2021 were returned. He 
made these payments later in January paying £455 by card. His February direct debit 
payment was returned, and he made this payment of £227 in early March, again by card. 
No payment was received for March or April and by mid-May 2021 AF had terminated the 
agreement and sold the car back to the dealer. It credited the sale proceeds of £4,500 to 
Mr As account leaving an outstanding balance of £8,743, including late fees (as shown on 
the statement of account).
Mr A complained to AF saying it should not have sold the car without giving him an 
opportunity to settle the matter. He said that the car was faulty and although it had been 
checked by the selling dealership in November 2020, he wasnt happy to make his 
payments until the repairs had been carried out. He felt it was unsafe to drive. He stopped 
his payments in 2020 and 2021 because of this issue. The car was repaired by the dealer 
in the week of 12 to 16 April 2021.
AF says that it was informed by the dealer on 20 April 2021 that the car had been 
repaired the previous week but the dealer had not been able to get in touch with Mr A to 
arrange collection. It told Mr A that it confirmed with the dealer on 10 May 2021 that the 
car still hadnt been collected and that storage fees were increasing on a weekly basis. 
AF told Mr A Our reasoning for subsequently terminating your finance agreement is 
due to the vehicle being abandoned at the dealership. AF offered Mr A a settlement 
amount of £3,853.53 to resolve his complaint.
Mr A didnt accept this response and referred his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr As complaint. They found that the car hadnt been of 
satisfactory quality when the agreement began and so Mr A was entitled to ask for it to 
be repaired. It seems that this had happened in April 2021 and our investigator found 
that Mr A hadnt acted reasonably by then leaving the car in the garage for over three 
weeks. They concluded that AF didnt act unfairly when it terminated Mr As hire 
purchase agreement and didnt recommend that his complaint be upheld.
Mr A didnt accept this recommendation. He asked for his complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to decide and it came to me. AF had since confirmed that its offer of a 
reduced payment still stands. 
I sent out a provision decision on 29 September 2022 explaining why I thought Mr As 
complaint should be upheld. In this I set out my understanding of what had happened, 
the information Id relied on, and my provisional conclusions. I allowed time for both 
parties to comment on what Id said or provide any new information they wished me to 
consider when making a final decision. Ive had no response from either party. This is my 
final decision on the matter and will be legally binding should Mr A accept it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything and having no further comment or new information from either 
party, I remain of the view that Mr As complaint should be upheld. Ill set out my reasons 
why again in this final decision.
As with my provisional decision, I have taken into account the law and relevant regulatory 
rules. These included, for example, the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974, the Consumer 
Rights Act (CRA) 2015 and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Handbook 
(CONC) which set out regulations and guidance for lenders such as AF about what should 
happen before and during credit agreements. The overarching requirements were that AF 
needed to treat Mr A fairly with due regard to his interests, and to provide him with 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Bearing all this in mind, the main questions I need to consider are did AF treat Mr A fairly 
in its dealings with him, for example when he raised a complaint about the quality of the 
car or when it terminated his account? Did AF provide clear, fair and not misleading 
information to Mr A about his account, for example, and his options and what was 
happening? Did AF treat Mr A unfairly in any other way?
The information Ive relied on
Mr A and AF provided me with information and their perspectives on what happened. 
AF has provided its customer contact notes, a statement of the account and a VAT 
invoice from the dealership for the part it said was required for the car. Mr A has 
provided photos and videos of the car and email correspondence with AF. This is not an 
exhaustive list.
Some of the information I have is conflicting. For example, AF told us that the car had 
passed an MOT in September 2020 with no advisories and a mileage of 106,606. The 
photos Mr A provided seem to show varying mileage figures from 101,308 to 108,348, 
but some of the photos are unclear. I have been unable to check the cars tax or MOT 
online. In another example - the dealer told AF on 5 March 2021 that theyd had the 
required part for six weeks but the VAT invoice they later provided shows a tax point of 9 
April 2021. The dealer also told AF that the required part was an EGR valve when the 
invoice was for a lambda sensor.
AF sent many communications to Mr A about his account over the time he had the car and 
he had discussions about his complaint with several people. I have focussed on what I 
think are the main dates but have been mindful of this context. Other contextual information is that the dealer told AF on 5 March 2021 it had provided Mr A with a top-up 
loan of £1,000 to acquire the car which he hadnt been repaying  I dont know if this was 
a secured loan and I have no further details about it. And Mr A told AF on 30 March that 
he had stopped the insurance on the car as he was driving another. AF noted on 20 April 
that the car wasnt insured.
What happened
What seems to have happened here is that Mr A withheld his payments for 10 December 
2020 and 10 January 2021 because he said the car had a fault. The dealer had checked it 
over in November and told Mr A he needed to order a part for it and it was safe to drive in 
the meantime. Mr A didnt feel it was safe to drive. Mr A caught up with his missed payments 
in late January and told AF then about the issues he was having with the car. Mr A didnt 
make his February payment, but paid it on 4 March. He had a long conversation with AF (as 
per the customer notes) and explained his issues with the car. AF waived some of the late 
payment fees that it had charged to the account as a good will gesture at that point.
I understand that from 4 March to 17 April Mr As account was on hold while the issues 
with the car were sorted out.
In its final response to his complaint (about the quality of the car) issued on 6 April 2021, 
AF told Mr A that it had given him the option of a repair or an independent inspection. It 
said it was his responsibility to get the car back to the dealers for repair as they had 
agreed to fix the issues and said We also offered another option to you which was to 
instruct an independent inspection on the vehicle, but advised it may result in the report 
outcome not being in your favour if it is determined that the vehicle was fit for purpose at 
the point of sale.
Mr A didnt respond to AF to tell it what he wished to do. I understand he brought the car 
to the dealer for repair on or around the 9 April. According to the dealer the car was 
repaired at some point during the week of the 12 to 16 April.
On 14 April AF told Mr A that if he was complaining about a new fault that the dealer 
wasnt willing to repair, it could look into it for him. Mr A told AF on 20 April that he wanted 
to raise a new complaint. He remained unhappy with the car because he felt more work 
was required to fix the issues hed experienced. He also said that the dealer was taking 
too long to repair it. Later that day AF spoke with the dealer who said that he had repaired 
the car as requested, had told Mr A that the work had been carried out and that the car 
had been ready for collection for a week. AF told Mr A that his rights had been enforced 
and there was, essentially, nothing further that he could do beyond accepting this repair.
Mr A hadnt made his March or April payments. AF had sent Mr A a notice of arrears on 
the 12 April. On 20 April AF sent Mr A a summary resolution email and letter regarding 
the new complaint he wanted to raise. Mr A disagreed with the outcome. On 22 April AF 
emailed Mr A to say that an independent inspection was no longer an option, the car 
had been repaired as hed requested and his complaint was closed. It also sent him a 
first reminder letter on that date.
The email AF sent to Mr A on the 20 April 2021 said:
We've spoken to the dealer ship this afternoon and they've advised the vehicle has 
been repaired. The issue was an EGR valve which has been replaced. The technician 
called you last week to advise the car was ready for collection but you did not respond. 
We would request you call them to discuss picking the vehicle up as repairs are complete. As the repairs have been done and the vehicle has been confirmed as 
working we will close the complaint as nothing to investigate.
The email AF sent to Mr A on the 22 April 2021 said:
I have reviewed your response and we will not be instructing an independent inspection 
on the vehicle, as per my previous email we gave you two options on how you would like 
to proceed with your complaint, the first was to instruct an independent inspection to 
ascertain if the vehicle was faulty at the point of inception. If the report supported you we 
would enforce repairs to be carried out by the dealership. The second option was for you 
to arrange for repairs to be carried out by the dealership, this was the option you chose 
and as such we are not instructing a report. The dealer has adhered to his obligations 
under The Consumer Rights Act 2015 and the vehicle has now been repaired as per your 
request, therefore we consider the matter closed. Should you have any further issues 
then you would be expected to provide proof of fault, but for now the complaint is closed.
On 7 May, the dealer offered to buy the car. It told AF that the car hadnt been collected 
and that it was charging weekly storage fees. On 10 May a price of £4,500 was agreed 
and AF requested payment of this. AF terminated Mr As agreement later that day and 
sent him notice of this. It told him on 11 May that legal action could be taken to recover 
the outstanding balance and that it would tell him what that outstanding balance was 
once the sale proceeds had been received.
AF calculated an early settlement figure of £8,380 on 10 May. It gave Mr A a 
shortfall figure of £3,853.53 on 13 May and let him know that the dealer had bought 
the car. 
Car quality issues
AF told us that when Mr A raised a complaint regarding issues with the vehicle the 
dealer accepted responsibility for the faults and repaired the car at no cost to him. 
Under The Consumer Rights Act 2015, the rights Mr A was intitled to were enforced. It 
seems to me that AF accepted that the car was faulty from the outset.
Mr A has been consistent in his description of the faults with the car. He told AF in 
January that the engine management light came on after hed had the car for a few days 
and that it wasnt stable when turning left. The car had been at the garage in November 
2020 and hed been told he needed a part replaced. He said that the problem worsened in 
February and he felt it was more than just a single part replacement that was needed.
I am satisfied from everything Ive seen that there was a fault with the car, which was 
present when the agreement began. However, bearing in mind this was a used car 
which was ten years old when Mr A acquired it, it doesnt automatically follow that it 
was of unsatisfactory quality or unfit for purpose. The fault could have been as a result 
of normal wear and tear and not unexpected for the car in question. I understand that 
the dealer told Mr A in November that although a part was required for the car it 
remained safe to drive.
When Mr A remained unhappy with the dealers repair, AF told Mr A that he didnt have 
the option of having an independent inspection of the car to decide whether there was a 
fault with it that meant it was of unsatisfactory quality or unfit for purpose. It told him that it 
was up to him to provide proof of the fault he was now complaining about. As far as I am 
aware, Mr A didnt provide any proof to AF beyond his description of the issue.
It doesnt seem to me that AF gave Mr A the option of pursuing his complaint about this. It didnt tell Mr A what steps he needed to take or what evidence he needed to provide for 
the issue to be looked into. When Mr A eventually asked for an independent inspection, 
AF said that was no longer an option for him as he had chosen to have the car repaired by 
the dealer.
We asked Mr A for evidence of the fault he remained worried about. I havent had any 
evidence from Mr A to support his view that there was something wrong with the car which 
replacing a part wouldnt solve. Mr A has sent us photos of the dashboard lights, but this 
doesnt evidence that further repair was required beyond what the dealer said it had 
carried out. Mr A also told us that the car was recovered from a motorway to his home in 
February due to shaking whilst driving but didnt provide anything further about this 
incident or, as far as I know, mention it to AF.
It may be that there was an issue with the car which required more than a part to put 
right. I havent seen any evidence from AF, the dealer or Mr A to show what repairs were 
carried out on the car, beyond a VAT invoice for a lambda sensor with a date of 9 April.
Mr A didnt have an opportunity to see if the dealers repair had solved the issue. As it 
stands, its difficult to now determine whether or not the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
or not fit for purpose when Mr A acquired it, and so I have not made this finding. 
Agreement termination due to abandonment
The dealer told AF that the car had been deemed ready for collection in the week of the 
12 April. Even accepting this to mean the end of that week, the car still hadnt been 
collected by 10 May, over three weeks later.
Mr A said: Why I left the car in garage had two reasons, firstly Covid restrictions (which 
are still practiced in many areas) So just by giving date/telling they were not in place, 
doesnt mean they can be ignored. Secondly, the storage story & storage charges were 
brought up on 11th May 2021. The car was there for repairs, it was not left abandoned. 
Mr A said that the restrictions were still practised in many areas and he had been stopped 
and questioned by the police on one occasion. Mr A also said that he had been waiting 
five months for the car to be repaired and leaving the car at the garage for three weeks 
wasnt a disproportionate period of time in this context.
Leaving aside whether or not the pandemic had impacted on Mr As willingness to pick up 
the car, it seems to me he didnt want to collect the car until the fault had been dealt with 
to his satisfaction. He tried to raise another complaint with AF on 20 April  the contact 
notes say that hed had a long conversation with AF. I dont know the detail of that 
conversation but there isnt anything in the notes which suggest to me that Mr A was 
made aware that if he didnt collect the car AF could potentially consider that it had been 
abandoned and was at risk and might act to recover the car irrespective of what was 
happening regarding his payments. As mentioned Mr A had left the car in for repair 
around Friday 9 April. The contact AF had between then and the agreement termination 
on the 10 May was centred on restarting payments.
AF told us that it made the decision to repossess the car as the storage charges were 
increasing. AF also said that Mr A put its goods at risk by abandoning it at a dealership 
who did not want the vehicle on their premises. It said it confirmed with the dealership on 
the 10 May 2021 that the vehicle hadnt been collected and that storage fees were 
increasing on a weekly basis. AF said it had to act to stop further fees being incurred and 
so terminated the agreement. Im afraid I find it difficult to accept this argument from AF, 
given it was in negotiations with the dealer to buy the car at that point and Ive seen no evidence that AF was charged these fees or that they were added to the account.
Mr A had mentioned to AF on a call on 30 March that the vehicle wasnt insured. This 
was a breach of the terms and conditions of the agreement as Mr A was required to keep 
the car comprehensively insured. Mr A told us that he wasnt driving the car at the time 
and was driving another car, which was insured, and it didnt make sense to him to insure 
two cars. AF reminded Mr A that he needed to insure the car on 30 March but didnt take 
any further action in this regard though it later noted again that the car wasnt insured. I 
dont know if Mr A subsequently insured the car, either before or when it was with the 
dealer.
Based on the available information, in the context of this case, I dont think it was fair of 
AF to terminate the agreement, without warning, on the basis that the car had been 
abandoned and was at risk, even though it had the right to do so under the agreement if 
Mr A hadnt insured the car. My understanding is that Mr A hadnt actually refused to 
collect it. It seems to me he was unaware that he might be incurring storage charges 
until after the car had been sold and unaware of the consequences of not collecting the 
car.
Agreement termination due to arrears
AF told us that the second reason it terminated the agreement was that Mr A wasnt 
making his monthly instalments. As mentioned Mr A hadnt made his payments in 
December, January or February. AF sent Mr A default notices on 22 December, 11 
January and 11 February. By 4 March 2021 Mr A had caught up with his monthly 
payments for these months and some of the late fees had been waived.
AF sent another default notice on 15 March when Mr A didnt meet his 10 March 
payment. AF sent Mr A an arrears notice on 12 April after he missed his April payment. 
As mentioned, my understanding is that Mr As account was on hold during this time while 
AF dealt with his complaints. AF sent Mr A a first reminder on 22 April. From the 
information I have, I cant see that AF sent Mr A a default notice after this before 
terminating his agreement. It seems to me that AF didnt let Mr A know what he now 
owed, what action he needed to take and by when in order to stop his account being 
terminated or the car repossessed.
AF says that it issued a default notice in December 2020 which wasnt satisfied. But 
in March Mr A had caught up with his payments and had charges waived as a good 
will gesture.
As AF will know, it was required to send Mr A a default notice before terminating the 
agreement or seeking repossession of the car. I appreciate that it sent text messages and 
emails to Mr A in April asking him to get in touch and had sent previous default notices. I 
havent been provided with copies of the arrears notices or default letters. Altogether, 
based on the information I have, I cant say that AF did what it was required to do 
regarding default notices before terminating the agreement.
The contact notes show that AF defaulted the account on 10 May with a default sum of
£13,243.10. It also generated a settlement figure of £8,380 and noted unpaid charges of 
£87 and arrears of £682 (presumably for the months of March, April and May 2021). It 
generated a second settlement figure of £3,853.53 on the 13 May, after it received the 
£4,500 from the dealer. AF sent Mr A a default sum notice on the 19 May  I havent seen 
a copy of this so I dont know what figure was used here.
Altogether, Ive come to the conclusion that AF treated Mr A unfairly when it terminated his agreement in this way. It didnt offer him the option of voluntarily terminating or 
surrendering the agreement or settling the agreement early, for example. I dont think Mr 
A would have chosen to end the agreement  he hasnt mentioned that he was in financial 
difficulty and had told AF in January 2021 that he had no problems with paying. However, 
I dont know enough about his circumstances to determine whether he would or would not 
have settled the agreement himself. It seems to me that AF decided to settle the 
agreement, having agreed a price with the dealer.
Did AF treat Mr A unfairly in any other way?
AF says that Mr A has not been in touch about the outstanding balance on his account 
and that hes showed no intention of settling the debt given his lack of engagement. Let 
me acknowledge at this point that AF has attempted to speak with Mr A on many 
occasions as evidenced by the communication records from November 2020 onwards. Mr 
A has proved very difficult to get in touch with over the course of these events.
AF sent Mr A a termination notice on 10 May. He got in touch on the 11 May and AF didnt 
initially let him know that the car had been sold to the dealer. I can see from contact 
records that Mr A couldnt understand how the car had been sold when he could see that 
it was still at the dealership. Mr A was told on his tenth call on 13 April that the car had 
been sold back to the dealer. He then spoke with a manager who explained that the 
dealer could sell the car for whatever price they wished and he was advised not to 
continue calling the office. Mr A says that AF showed complete disrespect in its telephone 
conversations with him on 11 and 13 April.
It seems from the call notes that there were several factious discussions after the 
agreement termination, however I have not been provided with any call recordings to 
consider this aspect further. Having considered this point carefully, I dont think an award 
for distress and inconvenience would be appropriate in this case.
My conclusions in summary
There was a fault with the car, which was there from the beginning, however I dont have 
enough information to decide that the car was of unsatisfactory quality or not fit for purpose 
when Mr A acquired it.
AF should not have terminated Mr As agreement and repossessed the car in the manner 
in which it did. It didnt treat him fairly and with due regard to his interests when it did do.
AF didnt treat Mr A fairly in its dealings with him as it failed to give him clear, fair and not 
misleading information about what was happening with his account or with the car.
Putting things right
AF offered Mr A a settlement figure of £3,853.53, and confirmed this offer remains valid.
I understand that Mr A paid an advance fee of £250 and three instalments of £227. He 
had the use of the car from the last week in October 2020 until it was brought in for 
repairs on or around the 9 April 2021, about five months. Mr A said that he didnt consider 
the car to be safe to drive after an incident in February.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for AF but Ive come to the conclusion that 
it now needs to waive the balance of the early settlement figure it has deemed Mr A liable 
for. I dont think its fair that Mr A pays more than the amount hes already paid to have 
had the use of the car for five months. I dont know how AF has reported Mr As account to the credit reference agencies. I think 
its fair that Mr As credit record reflects how he managed the account up to the date of 
termination. I also think its fair if the account is shown as having been settled, reflecting 
that AF accepted less than the full amount owed under the agreement.
In summary, AF should now:
Waive the outstanding balance on Mr As account and consider it settled.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im upholding Mr As complaint about Advantage Finance 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman