DRN-4077349
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy the Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) declined transactions from his current
account when he had sufficient funds in there to make the payments.
What happened
I issued my provisional findings to both parties setting out why I did not think Mr Fs 
complaint should be upheld, and invited both parties to provide any further submissions in 
reply to my provisional decision. 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision together with my 
provisional findings, which are included below and now form part of this final decision. 
What happened
On Saturday 24 September 2022 Mr F attempted to use his debit card to place a £50 bet in
a betting shop.
Mr F made four attempts to put the payment request through using the contactless card
facility. However, each attempt was not authorised. Mr F has said had he been able to make
the payment, he would have won £160.
Mr F contacted Co-op on Monday 26 September 2022 to confirm the transaction as genuine,
and Co-op removed the block on the same day.
On Saturday 15 October 2022 Mr F attempted to make an online payment for insurance, but
this was declined and a block was placed on Mr Fs account. On Monday 17 October 2022
Mr F contacted Co-op about the blocked transaction, and the payment went through later on
the same day.
Mr F complained to Co-op when each transaction was declined. Co-op have told Mr F these
payments were stopped because of their automated security systems, so they had not done
anything wrong.
Our Investigator considered Mr Fs concerns about the transaction in September 2022 only.
They concluded Co-op had not done anything wrong and they had followed their processes
to block Mr Fs account at that time.
Mr F disagreed with the Investigators findings as he said Co-op knew he did not have
access to a phone so they shouldve made provisions for that and let him know that the
automatic fraud system could have intervened at any time during a transaction. Mr F also
said the September 2022 transaction was not unusual in terms of the amount or what the
payment was for. And that he had money available in his account to make that payment, so
the transaction should not have been blocked.
As a resolution could not be reached the case came to me to decide. Before reaching these
provisional findings I asked both parties for further submissions.
As Co-op have considered complaints about both of the above transactions, Mr F was asked
to confirm if he was also pursuing the complaint that Co-op blocked the transaction in
October 2022. To date, Mr F has not been able to recall much detail about this transaction
and has been unable to locate any documentation in relation to it.
While I note Mr F has not yet confirmed if he wishes to pursue what happened in October
2022 any further, I have - for the purposes of moving things forward  included this
transaction as part of my considerations in this provisional decision. Mr F can reply to this
provisional decision with any further comments he has in relation to the October 2022
transaction, or he can let me know if he would like this to be removed as a complaint point
from my final considerations.
Co-op were asked to provide more detail around both transactions in terms of why they were
declined and in relation to Co-ops processes when events like these occur, with particular
reference to what happens when a customer is without access to a phone or email. Ive
referred to Co-ops submissions in more detail below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
After reviewing all of Mr Fs submissions about what happened in September 2022, I can
see how much this transaction being blocked has frustrated him, most notably because he
says that this prevented him from placing a winning bet that would have left him £160 better
off.
Co-op have explained that the payment was blocked due to their automated system being
triggered. The available evidence shows the block was applied at 16:50 on 24 September
2022 so that Mr Fs fourth attempt to make the payment at 16:51 was declined. At the same
time Co-ops notes record that they didnt hold contact details for Mr F (other screenshots
Co-op have submitted show they had no recorded phone number or email address), and
they show the block is removed on 26 September 2022 at 14:37.
The transaction on 15 October 2022 was an online transaction, so it was a different method
of authorisation being used to make the payment. The transaction was blocked at 10:45 on
15 October 2022, and at the same time similar notes were made about Mr Fs contact
details. On 17 October 2022 at 15:39 Co-op confirmed with Mr F the transaction was
genuine and the block was removed.
Firms are expected to have fraud prevention systems and processes in place to protect their
customers money. This means sometimes customers can find that genuine transactions are
also picked up for these types of checks. While frustrating for the customer, this doesnt
automatically make it wrong for the transaction to be paused while additional checks are
carried out before allowing a transaction to go through.
The terms and conditions for Mr Fs account explain that Co-op can, for example, decline to
make a payment if they suspect any fraudulent activity. And unless prevented from doing so
for legal or regulatory reasons, they will let the customer know why a payment has been 
blocked as soon as they reasonably can. The terms and conditions also state that a
customer can call them straight away to ask about a declined payment.Co-op have explained that as they did not hold a phone number or an email address for
Mr F, they could not quickly contact him about the payments. This meant these payments
needed to be manually reviewed by someone and a letter would be sent if they could still
find no other way to contact Mr F.
Having reviewed the available evidence, I think Co-op fairly applied the blocks to these two
transactions. Co-op have explained these blocks were applied due to their automated fraud
systems picking up the transactions for further checks. And while Co-op could not contact
Mr F straight away, it wouldve been reasonable for them to issue Mr F with a letter to the
address he had given them, had they not heard from him. As Mr F contacted Co-op in both
instances and the payments were unblocked straight away, I cant see there were any
delays in sorting things out once Mr F got in touch.
I understand Mr F feels strongly that Co-op should have provisions in place to contact him in
the absence of him having access to a phone or email. The next step would have been for
Co-op to manually review the transactions and write to Mr F, and I am assuming this would
have happened had Mr F not contacted Co-op first.
However, if Mr F is unable to provide Co-op with a phone number or email, its difficult for me
to say what else Co-op could have done to try and contact Mr F soon after the transactions
were declined. And as the terms and conditions of the account set out, customers can call
Co-op straight away when a transaction hasnt gone through. On both occasions Mr F
contacted Co-op on the Monday following the attempts to make the transactions on a
Saturday.
Ive also considered what Mr F has said about losing out because he wasnt able to place a
winning bet on 24 September 2022. While I understand Mr Fs frustration with this, Im
unable to say that Co-op should pay the £160 Mr F is seeking. This is because I dont think
Co-op have done anything wrong by following their processes to ensure Mr Fs transaction
was genuine.
I realise Mr F will be disappointed with my conclusions. But overall I think Co-op have
reasonably followed their processes in the case of both transactions, and in the
circumstances I think theyve acted fairly and reasonably.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Co-op replied to my provisional decision to confirm they had nothing further to add. 
After issuing the provisional decision, Mr F was approached by our service to see if he had 
any further submissions to make in reply to my provisional decision, but he did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and given there are no further submissions for me to consider from either 
party, I see no reason to alter the conclusions as set out in my provisional decision. That is, 
in the circumstances, I dont think Co-op acted unfairly or unreasonably in blocking the 
transactions in question on 24 September 2022 and 15 October 2022. And without any 
immediate way of contacting Mr F available to them, I dont think there was any more Co-op 
could do on the days the transactions were blocked. The blocks were also lifted without any 
delay once Mr F got in touch. In the circumstances, I see no reason to alter my provisional conclusions that Co-op 
reasonably followed their processes in relation to both the transactions in question, and that 
Co-op have acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman