DRN-2378741
The complaint
Mr K and Ms A complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly refused 
to meet a claim they made under their home insurance.
What happened
Mr K and Ms A returned from holiday in September 2018 and discovered the inside of their 
home had been damaged by water. They contacted RSA and explained they thought their 
neighbours overflow pipe had let water run over their roof and because they hadnt been 
there to realise it was causing a problem, this led to the damage they found on their return 
from holiday.
RSA agreed to look at the claim and sent a drying specialist to look at the damage. It later 
sent another contractor to look at the damage and comment on what had caused it.
Both the drying specialist and the contractor said they thought the main problem was the 
state of the roof, rather than the overflow pipe. They said the roof was in a poor state and 
thought that if it had been sound then it wouldnt have let water through even if there was 
more water coming from the overflow pipe than usual. 
RSA said it wouldnt meet the claim. Mr K and Ms A complained about both this and the 
length of time it had taken to get someone to look at the damage.
RSA said it still wouldnt meet the claim, but acknowledged there had been a problem getting 
a second visit arranged. It offered £250 compensation to make up for several weeks delay.
Mr K and Ms A didnt think this was fair and asked us to look at their complaint.
Our investigator said he thought RSA had fairly said it wouldnt meet the claim, and thought 
the compensation offered for the delays was reasonable.
Mr K and Ms A disagree so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise this isnt what Mr K and Ms A want to hear, 
but Ill explain how Ive reached my decision.
I do understand that it must have been upsetting for Mr K and Ms A to come home from a 
holiday and find their property was damaged. And I can understand also that, upon hearing 
that their neighbours overflow pipe had disgorged a lot of water over their roof that they 
thought this was something they should be covered for under their policy.
RSA accepted that there was water damage within Mr K and Ms As home. Once it had done 
that, for RSA to say it isnt going to meet a claim, it had to show it can fairly apply an 
exclusion  a reason why it need not meet the claim.
RSA says the exclusions that apply are firstly that the condition of the roof was the reason 
why the water got in, and it need not meet a claim where the main cause was wear and tear. 
It says secondly that any claim for accidental damage specifically excludes water entering a 
property unless its from a storm or a flood.
Ive thought about both of these reasons to see if RSA has applied the exclusions fairly. I 
think it has.
Ive looked at all the photos from the reports and read the comments from both the visits that 
were made. The photos Ive seen show a roof that has broken slates and staining from 
water. The latter will have built up over years rather than suddenly. And it also seems clear 
that water from the overflow is meant to run over this roof. Thats common in many buildings.
Both contractors say they think the problem is the roof, rather than the overflow pipe. Thats 
because theyre saying that  even if the pipe did suddenly let water flow over their roof, if it 
had been in a reasonable state of repair it would have kept water out. I think its fair for RSA 
to rely on these have to agree with these reports when deciding if it should meet the claim or 
not. 
In some circumstances, because the damage inside the house appeared suddenly, Mr K 
and Ms As accidental damage cover might have enabled RSA to meet the cost of putting 
the internal damage right. However, damage caused by water getting into the property other 
than by flood or storm is excluded from cover. Mr K thinks the overflowing pipe is the 
equivalent of a flood. Im not persuaded by that argument. The policy doesnt define flood, 
but its normally interpreted as ground level water entering a property  such as if a nearby 
river burst its banks after heavy rain. I dont think it includes water flowing across a roof, 
especially when thats what happens normally. 
RSA did acknowledge that it had caused some unnecessary delays when handling this 
claim. Its apologised for that and offered £250 compensation. I think thats a reasonable 
offer. RSA did arrange for the drying process to start early on in this complaint, but it also 
failed to get a second assessment of the damage in a timely manner, which left Mr K  and 
Ms A not knowing what was happening for several weeks. Taking everything into account I 
think the offer is fair.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I leave it with Mr K and Ms A to decide 
whether to accept the offer of compensation  if it hasnt already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman