DRN-3353936
The complaint
A company, which I will refer to as H, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to 
prevent them losing out financially as a result of an authorised push payment (APP) fraud.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. Briefly, in October 2019, H set up a payment of €100,000 from their euro business 
premium account to their foreign exchange provider.
H has explained that the payment was to be made to their forex provider so that they could 
in turn pay H an equivalent amount in pound sterling into their sterling business account, 
and this was for payment of wages to Hs staff.
On the day H set up the payment, they received an email purportedly from their forex 
dealer requesting to amend the payment details. There was nothing suspicious about the 
email and the director of H proceeded to carry out the instruction. He called their bank to 
enquire how to amend the payment details. With the help of the banks staff over 
telephone, he amended the details and made the payment to the revised account.
Unfortunately, this turned out to be a fraud and that came to light a week later. H 
contacted their bank who in turn contacted the beneficiary bank. However only about £4 
could be recovered from the beneficiarys account.
H complained to HSBC that it failed to prevent the fraud and the resultant financial loss to 
H. They said that HSBC failed to question the receipt of such a large amount into a newly 
opened account, and it had also failed to question the way the fund was quickly withdrawn 
from the account.
HSBC said that as soon as it was notified of the fraud, it acted promptly but by 
then unfortunately most of the money had been withdrawn by the beneficiary.
H has also complained about their bank  which I will call Bank A - and wanted us 
to consider both the complaints together.
One of our investigators considered both the complaints. In relation to this complaint they 
were of the view that HSBC could have done more when the money was received into the 
beneficiarys account and quickly withdrawn. They felt that HSBC had missed an 
opportunity to help prevent the fraud and consequent loss to H. So, they considered it fair 
that it compensates H for the loss. However, having considered the other complaint against 
Bank A, they concluded that there had been some error or omission on part of Bank A as 
well. So, they said that it would be fair that both the banks share the liability equally. 
Therefore, the investigator recommended that HSBC should refund €50,000 to H together 
with simple interest at 8% p.a.
HSBC did not agree with the investigators opinion. In summary it said:
The banks responsibilities as paying bank and as receiving bank are distinct 
and fundamentally different. It is important to recognise this.
The fact that a large sum was received into an account neednt necessarily be a 
cause for concern. Businesses operate in a variety of ways which may result in 
large sums being received on occasions.
Even if the bank had blocked the outgoing payments and queried its customer, it is 
possible that their customer would have given a viable explanation for the receipt of 
the funds. In such circumstances there would be nothing more the bank could have 
done anyway.
The fact that the payment details were changed was suspicious and warranted 
questioning by the paying bank. There is no indication that any or any proper 
questioning took place in that respect. So, it is not clear why the paying bank has not 
been asked to bear full responsibility in this case.
Further, it is reasonable to expect that H acted competently in verifying the payment 
details and choosing whether to make the payment. H should have had in place 
measures to protect them from falling victim to frauds such as this. As such, it is fair 
and reasonable that H should bear responsibility for the loss it suffered or share it 
with the paying bank as discussed above.
Any interest awarded should be limited to the rate of interest on the account from 
which the payment was made.
The investigator considered what HSBC has said but remained of the view that their 
recommendation is fair. They explained why and gave a deadline to both parties to 
respond. Whilst H accepted the investigators opinion, HSBC reiterated that a change in 
account details was suspicious and both H and the paying bank failed to question this 
before making the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case. But that is not the end of the story. HSBC also has an 
ongoing obligation to be alert to various risks in relation to accounts with it. Specifically, 
Im mindful that it:
must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence;
has a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and 
maintain effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable 
requirements and standards under the regulatory system and for countering 
the risk that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R 
of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook);
must fairly and reasonably been monitoring accounts and any payments made or 
received to counter various risks including anti-money laundering and preventing 
fraud and scams. At the material time, those requirements included maintaining 
proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and procedures to identify, assess and 
manage risk, e.g. through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing 
monitoring of the business relationship including through the scrutiny of transactions 
undertaken throughout the course of the relationship;must have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate risk of fraud. This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years.
Ultimately, it is a matter for HSBC as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate. But where it is alleged that it 
didnt do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an APP fraud, I will look into the 
circumstances of the case and based on what I have seen, decide whether in that case 
HSBC could have fairly and reasonably done more.
I have also taken into account that H isnt a micro-enterprise and hence isnt covered by 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code.
HSBC has provided relevant information to our service to allow us to investigate this. I 
am limited as to how much information I can share because it relates to a third-party 
account. But Id like to assure that Ive carefully reviewed everything before reaching my 
decision.
Having reviewed the submissions, I agree with the investigator that HSBC could have 
done more here, for the reasons they have explained.
Briefly, as I understand it, the beneficiarys account was a fairly new, sterling account. 
There was minimal activity in the first couple of months with small payments going in and 
out. It is in these circumstances Hs payment of €100,000 came in. It was unusually large 
compared to the previous account activity. Also, unusually, it was a payment in foreign 
currency.
This was then quickly followed by a series of outgoing large payments. The first 
outgoing payment itself represented a sudden and uncharacteristic increase in 
spending and attempted soon after a large non-sterling payment.
So, I agree with the investigator that there was enough going on here that ought to have 
prompted HSBC to take a closer look at what was happening. I think it is reasonable to 
expect that HSBC withheld the first outgoing payment and tried to contact its customer 
and carried out additional checks.
I cannot be certain as to what would have happened had HSBC contacted its customer at 
that point. I note HSBCs submission that had it contacted its customer at that time it was 
quite possible that they would have responded and provided a plausible explanation, 
because they would have wanted to access the money. However, in this case, HSBC had 
not investigated what had happened until it was alerted to the fraud. There is no evidence it 
contacted and sought explanation from its customer about the details of this payment. So, I 
will have to consider what more likely would have happened had HSBC  well versed in 
carrying out investigations of this nature - looked into this closely, contacted its customer 
and if they were reachable, asked all the right questions.
I consider that had the bank done so, it is more likely than not that the fraud would have 
come to light. I cant see how the beneficiary could have given a reasonable explanation for 
a complete mismatch in name of the payee, especially given that the intended payee was a 
big financial services firm. I consider that it would have been difficult for the beneficiary to 
have provided any reasonable explanation as to why they received into their account, a 
non-sterling payment intended for a big financial services entity or be able to provide proof 
of entitlement to those funds. Further, as pointed out by the investigator, what happened was somewhat anomalous to what their customer told the bank when the account was 
opened.
I appreciate that HSBC needs to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in 
payments, against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment 
requests. I acknowledge the main perpetrator here is the fraudster. But overall, I think 
HSBC failed to recognise the unusual behaviour on the receiving account or respond to it 
appropriately, and therefore missed an opportunity to help prevent loss to H.
H has complained about both their bank and HSBC. They want us to consider both the 
complaints, which they are entitled to. The investigator looked into what had happened 
overall, and found that both the banks could have done more to prevent the loss to H. 
So, they concluded that both entities should share the loss equally. Given the 
circumstances, I am satisfied that this is a fair outcome.
Ive also considered whether H should bear some responsibility for their loss (or a 
proportion of it) due to any contributory negligence. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think they should. This was a sophisticated scam. As explained by the 
investigator, when H received the initial email from the fraudster, it appears to have come 
from the genuine email address of the dealer. When H replied to that email, unknown to H, 
the fraudsters were able to divert the response to a very similar but slightly different 
address. And when the fraudster responded to H's email, once again it came from the 
genuine address. Further, there was nothing suspicious in the way the emails were written. 
Thus, H had no idea that a fraudster had intercepted their genuine email chain with the 
intended beneficiary. So, I dont think their actions can fairly be described as negligent.
Given my finding above that HSBC should refund H €50,000, I next need to consider 
what interest HSBC should add to this amount to compensate H for the period it was 
without these funds.
Our usual approach is to apply a simple interest rate of 8% broadly to reflect the opportunity 
cost of being without the funds. HSBC says that requiring it to pay 8% simple interest on 
this amount is high. It says there is no evidence to suggest that if H was returned to the 
position they would have been in prior to making the payment, they would have obtained 
interest on that sum at that level. So, it says that the interest should not be applied at a level 
any greater than the prevailing rate of interest for the account.
On the other hand, H has explained to us that the euro payment was to be converted into 
sterling by their forex provider and paid back into their sterling business account for 
payment of wages to their staff. They say that their cashflow was severely affected as this 
money was not received. They explain that they were already in overdraft incurring interest 
and the non- receipt of this considerable sum of money exacerbated the problem thereby 
even exceeding their authorised overdraft limit.
I have considered the submissions from both parties. I can see that the funds were 
intended to be paid into Hs sterling current account, as explained by H. I can also see that 
the account was overdrawn at the time, incurring interest. And to the extent the account 
information is available, I can see that the account continued to be in overdraft and on 
occasions went above the authorised limit potentially attracting higher rate of interest. And 
even where the account wasnt in overdrawn position, I cannot be certain about the precise 
cost to H of being deprived of this money because they might have used the funds in a 
variety of ways. So, without any compelling reason to depart from our usual approach, I 
consider it fair and reasonable that HSBC pays H simple interest at 8% p.a. on the amount 
to be refunded.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund 
€50,000 (less 50% of any amount that has already been recovered and returned to H) 
together with interest at 8% simple p.a. Interest should be paid from the date H or their bank 
first raised the fraud with HSBC until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman