DRN-3506618
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading at the time as Halifax irresponsibly gave 
him five loans that he couldnt afford. For simplicity, I will refer to the business throughout 
as Halifax. 
What happened
In December 1994, Mr M applied for a loan with Halifax. He was given a loan of £1,000 
and the monthly repayment was £54.06. Each subsequent loan seems to have 
consolidated the previous loan. In March 1995 Mr M was given a loan of £2,000 and the 
monthly repayment was £78.20. In July 1995 Mr M was given a loan of £3,000 and the 
monthly repayment was £114.74. In March 1996 Mr M was given a loan of £4,500 and the 
monthly repayment was £155.30. In July 1996 Mr M was given a loan of £8,300 and the 
monthly repayment was £227.98. 
In 2020, Mr M complained to Halifax to say that the accounts shouldnt have been opened 
for him because they werent affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr M didnt agree. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
During this investigation, Mr M has raised another complaint about whether Halifax made 
sufficient adjustments for him in their dealings with him. As that is the subject of a separate 
complaint, it forms no part of this decision. But in passing, I was sorry to hear of the issues 
that have affected Mr M in his life.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ms complaint is that Halifax made credit available that was unaffordable. Halifax has 
explained that it carried out a credit check to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer. And it also had notice of Mr Ms management of the accounts he had with them. Its 
possible that Halifax failed to make adequate checks before providing Mr M with credit. But 
even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Halifax to think the credit 
was unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial loans were reasonably modest and the monthly payments 
throughout his lending history for that credit were relatively modest. Ive seen insufficient 
evidence to think that there was much or any adverse information on Mr Ms credit file 
immediately before each lending decision was made that would have made the lending 
seem unreasonable. And, from his current account bank statements from the time, there 
was nothing in the management of Mr Ms bank account that would have made the lending 
unreasonable. And throughout the period in which lending decisions were made to provide 
these loans (December 1994 to July 1996), Mr Ms management of his loans was without 
fault.   
I have had sight of Mr Ms current account statements and they seem to show that the 
amount leaving the account was broadly similar to the amount entering it over time. And the 
statements show regular credits for income. So, on the face of it, there was insufficient 
evidence to think that Mr M was not managing his finances. And the loans were modest in 
size and whilst they grew, I do not think they reached an unaffordable level, indeed they 
were afforded. Mr M has told us his issues compounded after the time of the last lending 
decision in 1996
Latterly, Mr M has told us that the borrowing was in part to fund a gambling habit. Mr M 
explained that there are no entries on his current account for it as he withdrew money in 
cash to make the bets. It is disappointing but not surprising that Mr M has not kept his 
betting slips from all those years ago. But its important to me that Mr M understands that I 
have no reason to disbelieve him when he says he was spending his money that way. 
But my job is to establish whether Halifax performed sufficient checks that the lending was 
affordable, and as Ive already said, I think it was. And I have to look at the information that 
was available to Halifax at the time it made its lending decisions and not to use hindsight. 
Halifax was not made aware of the habit at the time the loans were made. 
I must also consider the information that could have been available to Halifax had it made 
more searching proportionate checks. And in this case, even had it checked Mr Ms bank 
account details for information about how he was spending his money, it would have seen 
no evidence to think he was using it for gambling, as Mr M was withdrawing cash to make 
his bets. 
In the same way, Mr M has said that he was in financial difficulty and had relied on his 
family to maintain his loan repayments at times and to keep his current account in order. But 
the point is that at the time of the lending decisions, Halifax would have had insufficient sight 
of that. Halifax would have seen that the current account was being maintained in order and 
that he was making his loan repayments. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that more thorough affordability checks would have led Halifax to think that 
the credit it provided Mr M was unreasonable. 
I know that Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because he has 
invested time and energy in pursuing his complaint. But I want Mr M to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case, including those from the parties who have 
provided their assistance to him in this matter. But having considered all the submissions in 
this case, particularly those at the time of the lending decisions, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman