DRN-2414923
The complaint
Mrs M has complained Dick Lovett (Bristol) Limited didnt carry out their duties as a credit 
broker properly. This resulted in Mrs M taking out a hire purchase agreement she couldnt 
afford.
What happened
Mrs M  along with her husband Mr M  had been looking at cars at a dealership (which 
theyd used previously). After a few visits, Mrs M decided to purchase a car which was 
valued at £83,150. She part-exchanged her existing car. Her new hire purchase agreement 
entailed her paying £1,130.76 for a four year period.
Mrs M subsequently believed this agreement was unaffordable and Dick Lovett had ignored 
her and her husbands financial limits on any agreement. Mrs M complained to Dick Lovett. 
They confirmed that the sale of Mrs Ms car had been completed with the appropriate 
diligence.
Mrs M brought her complaint to the ombudsman service (although she is represented by 
Mr M). At the same time a complaint was opened for Mr M who was making the same 
complaint about the hire purchase agreement in his name.
Our investigator reviewed whether Dick Lovett had taken Mrs Ms circumstances into 
consideration and shared these with the finance provider, along with their assessment into 
suitability. He didnt believe Dick Lovett had done anything wrong. He noted Mrs Ms 
personal circumstances including her health but overall didnt think these alone meant that 
Dick Lovett couldnt have recommended Mrs M for further finance.
Mrs M remained upset with this outcome. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached the decision I have.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than either of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators view of 26 October 2020 and his 
further response to Mrs M of 8 December 2020. This covers what happened in detail. It also 
provides a response to the issues Mrs M raised in her response of 4 December 2020 to our 
investigators view.
Firstly I note Mrs M was going through a personally turbulent time in 2015 and this continued 
throughout the period when she was deciding to buy another car. Im also aware of evidence 
weve received from Mrs Ms doctor confirming she received medication for depression in 
2016. But its also true that none of this means Mrs M was unable to make financial 
decisions so I dont think those factors suggest Dick Lovett couldnt have introduced Mrs M 
to a finance provider.
At the same time I can see Mrs M wasnt a stranger to the car market and what this entailed. 
Her husband was a director of a related business.  
I therefore find it extremely surprising that Mrs M made more than one trip to the dealer and 
continued to confirm her willingness to purchase a car that cost more than £80,000. I cant 
see she was unaware what this would be costing her in terms of her monthly financial 
commitment. 
I have considered Dick Lovetts obligations as a credit broker. These are laid out in rules 
made by the Finance Conduct Authority.  
Its worth stating upfront Dick Lovett made no affordability assessment as this was 
conducted by the finance provider based on the information that was provided. Ive seen no 
evidence Dick Lovett held back on any of the information provided to them by Mrs M. Its the 
decision of the finance provider to set their own parameters for the information they consider 
when deciding whether to offer credit. Its also their responsibility to ensure the credit is 
affordable and sustainable, not Dick Lovetts.
Credit brokers arent required to give a detailed breakdown of every type of finance option 
available to a consumer. But they do need to explain the key features of a product so that 
the consumer can make an informed choice. Mrs Ms signature is on the relevant documents 
to show she was aware of the key features. And whilst I agree dealers do short cut different 
aspects of the purchase and credit approval process, I see no reason to believe this is what 
happened here.
Ive not seen evidence to show that Dick Lovett was suggesting finance that was unsuitable 
at the time Mrs M took out the hire purchase agreement.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint against Dick 
Lovett (Bristol) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman