DRN-4257519
The complaint
Mr W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse the money he lost to a scam.
Whats happened?
Mr W has fallen victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam. 
In summary, hes explained that he came across a company Ill refer to as T whilst using a 
popular social media platform  T was featured in a well-known newspapers story setting 
out how successful the company was in cryptocurrency trading. He did some research and 
saw that T had positive online reviews, so he reached out to T. Mr W didnt have any 
investment experience, but T told him that he could start with a small investment, and he 
says this gave him confidence in the company. He made a couple of small investments and 
was given access to a trading platform which looked professional. He could see his 
investments performing well and he was able to withdraw some profit to his bank account 
(£70 on 8 February 2022), which assured him that the investment was legitimate before he 
went on to invest larger amounts. Mr W sent the following payments to T from his Monzo 
account, via a cryptocurrency wallet held in his own name: 
Date of payment Amount 
7 February 2022 £5
7 February 2022 £30
9 February 2022 £1,000
17 February 2022 £5,000
22 February 2022 £10,000
When Mr W attempted to send T a further payment via his cryptocurrency wallet, Monzo 
intervened, and it became apparent that hed fallen victim to a scam T was operating.
Mr W says that the payments to T were out of character  he usually only made small 
transactions for everyday spending, and he never sent any funds to cryptocurrency 
exchanges. But he sent a lot of money to T via his own cryptocurrency wallet within a short 
timeframe following large deposits into his account (including a loan credit). He also 
repeatedly drained his account balance in making the disputed payments. In the 
circumstances, Mr W believes that Monzo shouldve intervened sooner to prevent the scam 
and he says that an earlier intervention would likely have been successful because:
When Monzo did intervene, it became apparent that hed fallen victim to a scam, and 
he didnt make any further payments to T.
The scam had the hallmarks of a typical investment scam.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a scam warning about T on 4 
February 2022.
Our investigator considered all the evidence and found that Monzo shouldve intervened with 
the £5,000 payment Mr W instructed on 17 February 2022. He thought it likely that Mr Ws 
loss of that payment, and the £10,000 payment he instructed later, wouldve been prevented 
if Monzo had intervened as it should. So, he recommended that Monzo reimburse Mr W with 
£15,000 and pay interest at the originating account rate from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement.
Mr W accepted our investigators findings, but Monzo did not. In summary, the bank argued 
that: 
It was not necessary for it to intervene with the £5,000 payment instructed on 17 
February 2022.
It is conjecture that it couldve established Mr W was falling victim to a scam if it had 
intervened sooner  there is no evidence to that effect.
Mr W didnt take sufficient steps to protect himself from financial harm.
There was no loss from Mr Ws Monzo account as the payments were made into his 
own cryptocurrency wallet before they were lost to T.
Mr Ws case against Monzo has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Its common ground that the payments Mr W made to the scam were authorised under the 
Payment Services Regulations. Monzo had an obligation to follow Mr Ws payment 
instructions, and Mr W is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. But thats not the 
end of the story. There are circumstances in which a bank should take additional steps 
before processing a payment, or in some cases, decline to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm. I consider that Monzo 
should:
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Cryptocurrency scams often involve money passing through more than one account and 
they were not uncommon at the time. I think Monzo wouldve been aware of this. The FCA 
and Action Fraud published warnings about cryptocurrency scams in mid-2018. By early 
2022 when the scam payments were made, I think Monzo ought to have had time to digest 
these warnings and put mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this type of fraud. So, 
although Mr Ws loss may not have predominantly arisen from the initial transfers, Im 
satisfied they ought to have been within the contemplation of, and foreseeable to, Monzo. 
And Im satisfied that Monzo can fairly be held responsible for the loss if it could have 
prevented it.None of the scam payments set out in the table above triggered Monzos fraud detection 
systems. Ive looked at Mr Ws Monzo account statements and I dont think its reasonable to 
expect the first three scam payments to have triggered the banks fraud detection systems  
they were relatively low-value, and I dont think they were sufficiently unusual or suspicious, 
in consideration of the normal account activity, to have reasonably caused the bank concern. 
So, Im not persuaded that Monzo ought to have intervened with the first three scam 
payments or that the bank ought to have prevented them from being made. But I think the 
final two scam payments were out of character for Mr Ws account and Im satisfied that 
Monzo ought to have intervened with them. Although the final two scam payments went to a 
now established payee, they were significantly higher in value than the usual payments Mr 
W made from his account (he tended to use his account for very low-value transactions), 
both payments were instructed following a corresponding credit (one of which was a loan) 
and they both drained the account balance. Overall, I think there was enough about the final 
two payments to reasonably expect the bank to have had concerns.
By early 2022, I think Monzo ought to have had a good enough understanding of how 
cryptocurrency scams work  including that the customer often moves money to an account 
in their own name before it is moved on to a fraudster  to have been able to identify the risk 
of harm from fraud. In fact, Monzo demonstrated its understanding and ability to identify the 
risk of harm from fraud when it eventually intervened with the payments Mr W was making to 
T. With its industry knowledge, I think Monzo ought to have asked Mr W some probing 
questions about the £5,000 payment made on 17 February 2022 and given him information 
about the prevalence and typical features of cryptocurrency scams before processing the 
payment. If the bank had done enough at this stage  as it did later  I think it would most 
likely have become obvious to the parties that there was a risk of harm from fraud and the 
scam wouldve unfolded without that £5,000 payment, or any subsequent payments being 
made. 
Monzo has argued that it is conjecture that it couldve established Mr W was falling victim to 
a scam if it had intervened with the £5,000 payment, but I dont agree  Im persuaded by 
the evidence Ive seen that the bank would most likely have uncovered the scam if it had 
intervened at that stage. Im satisfied that the intervention the bank did carry out on a 
payment to T indicates that the bank couldve prevented the scam sooner if it had intervened 
sooner. I think its likely that Mr W wouldve answered the banks questions about the £5,000 
payment, if theyd been asked, in the same way he answered the banks questions about 
another payment instructed to T just a few days later. Ive also taken into account that there 
was an FCA warning about T in place when the £5,000 payment was instructed. 
I acknowledge that the main perpetrator here is the fraudster. But overall, I dont think that 
Monzo did enough to protect Mr W from financial harm. Im persuaded that the bank ought to 
have intervened with the payments Mr W was making to T at an earlier stage (17 February 
2022) and, if it had, the bank would have been able to prevent the scam (as it did with an 
intervention on a later date) without the £5,000 payment, or any subsequent payments being 
made. So, Im satisfied that its fair for Monzo to reimburse the £5,000 and £10,000 
payments Mr W made to T on 17 and 22 February 2022 respectively.
Ive considered whether Mr W should bear some responsibility for his loss by way of 
contributory negligence but, overall, I dont think there was any contributory negligence on 
this occasion. Of course, there is more Mr W couldve done to protect himself with the 
benefit of hindsight and relevant education about fraud and scams and how to protect 
himself from them from the bank  for example, he couldve checked the FCA register. But 
he's explained that:
He had no prior investment experience.
T was featured in a well-known newspapers story about cryptocurrency trading.He did some research and saw that T had positive online reviews.
He was given access to a trading platform which looked professional.
He started with a couple of small investments, before going on to make the £5,000 
and £10,000 payments to T. He could see his investments performing well and he 
was able to withdraw some profit to his bank account on 8 February 2022 (Ive seen 
evidence of this), which assured him that the investment opportunity was legitimate 
before he went on to invest larger amounts.
Overall, I think there was enough to satisfy a reasonable person in Mr Ws position of Ts 
legitimacy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and 
instruct Monzo Bank Ltd to reimburse the £5,000 and £10,000 payments Mr W lost to the 
scam on 17 and 22 February 2022 respectively and pay interest at the originating account 
from the date of each loss to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman