DRN-3485495
The complaint
Mr L complains Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc gave him incorrect information and 
poor service in relation to a payment holiday on his motor finance agreement.
Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc was called Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc at all the times relevant to 
Mr Ls complaint. I will therefore refer to the company as Hitachi in this decision. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ls complaint on 10 May 2022, asking both parties to 
respond to me by 24 May 2022. My provisional decision said the following about the 
background to Mr Ls case:
Mr L took out a point of sale loan with Hitachi to purchase a used car, in November 
2019. The loan was arranged by a car dealership. Under the loans terms, Mr L was 
expected to make 60 monthly payments of £305.95, equalling £18,358.
On 17 April 2020 Mr L rang Hitachi to ask about taking a payment holiday due to his 
financial situation having been affecting by the coronavirus pandemic. Hitachi agreed a 
three month payment holiday, to start from 26 May 2020.
There were a few admin issues on Hitachis side around stopping and restarting 
payments, which caused some confusion and Mr L to have to make a few phone calls. 
Hitachi acknowledged this confusion and paid Mr L £20 for his call costs. However, a 
bigger problem arose when Mr L learned a few months later that he was going to be 
charged around £500 interest because of the payment holiday. He was not happy about 
this because he considered he had not been given enough information. He said had he 
been told he was going to be charged this much hed have made more payments.
Mr L complained. He says that at some point during the course of his complaint a member 
of staff at Hitachi said he shouldnt be charged the extra interest, but in the end Hitachi 
didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response, it said that at the time Mr L had asked for 
the payment holiday it was still working out how interest would be applied in such cases, 
and that it had told him and sent him a modifying agreement as soon as it was able to.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr L referred the matter to this service for an independent 
assessment, where it was looked into by one of our investigators.
Our investigator concluded that Hitachi had acted in a way which was consistent with 
guidance on payment holidays which had been issued by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), which allowed contractual interest to continue to be charged during pandemic-related 
payment holidays. So there was nothing wrong in principle with Hitachi having charged Mr L 
interest while his payments were deferred. The investigator was also satisfied Hitachi had 
told Mr L when he applied for the payment holiday, that interest would continue to be added.
Our investigator did however think there had been a delay in Hitachi giving Mr L more 
precise information about the interest, and that this should have been provided in July 2020, 
not September 2020. But our investigator reasoned that in the end this hadnt made a 
difference, as when Mr L had received the information, he had signed to say that he agreed 
to it.
I then went on to make my provisional findings on the complaint, which were worded as 
follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The pandemic was an unprecedented event, and financial businesses needed to adapt 
quickly to sudden changes in working practices, while adhering to new guidance issued by 
the FCA in providing extra support to consumers suffering financial hardship.
The regulator had issued draft guidance to businesses operating in the car finance sector 
the same day Mr L called Hitachi on 17 April 2020. This noted that it was the FCAs 
expectation that, where consumers were experiencing or expecting to experience financial 
difficulty as a result of the pandemic, these businesses should allow consumers a payment 
holiday of three months, unless it was obviously not in the consumers interest, and that 
accounts should not be reported to consumers credit files as being in worsening arrears 
while on a payment holiday.
The FCA also said that interest could continue to be charged during a payment holiday, but 
that businesses needed to give adequate information to consumers about the implications 
of a payment holiday, including the consequences of interest accrued during this period
It was therefore not wrong of Hitachi to charge Mr L the normal interest on his agreement 
while his payment holiday was ongoing. If an agreement is extended its not unreasonable to 
expect that this will mean more interest will be charged, as the repayments end up being 
spread out over a longer period of time.
Hitachi needed to tell Mr L that he would be charged interest. When he called on 17 April 
2020 it did so, although it did not give him full details of how much interest this was, until 
September 2020. Mr L was clearly concerned on the phone call about how much interest 
might be charged, and Hitachis member of staff did give him some reassurance, as he said 
to Mr L that he didnt think it would be a crazy amount. When Mr L asked how long it would 
take to provide him with the figures, he said he thought it would be a few days, although he 
also said he wasnt sure about this. In the end it took Hitachi nearly five months to provide 
this information. While I appreciate Hitachi was also affected operationally by the pandemic 
and some degree of delay was perhaps to be expected and acceptable, five months in my 
opinion was too long a time especially in view of the information given on that initial phone 
call. I observe, like our investigator, that part of the delay also appears to have been caused 
by a mistake made by Hitachi, as its internal notes suggest it had the figures ready some 
months earlier but they were not passed on to Mr L.
I turn now to the question of whether Mr L has been left any worse off due to Hitachis 
actions, or failures to act. I will then consider what, if anything, it would be fair and 
reasonable of Hitachi to do to put things right.
I can understand Mr Ls position. He had committed verbally to a payment holiday in April 
2020 without knowing how much interest he would be charged. He was then presented, at 
the end of the payment holiday, with two options. He could either sign to agree to a 
modification of his loan agreement, under which he would pay £495.01 in additional interest 
over the lifetime of the agreement, or he could not sign, meaning his loan agreement would 
stay the same and he would be several months in arrears. I think he would have felt he had 
been put in the difficult position of choosing between two unpalatable options.But ultimately, I think it is reasonable that I work on the assumption that the reason why Mr L 
was asking for a payment holiday in the first place was because he was going to find it at 
least difficult to afford his repayments due to the impact of the pandemic. This was, after all, 
the purpose of these payment holidays. So while I can see Mr L now says he would have 
been able to make more payments so as not to pay the additional interest, I dont think I can 
assume that hed have been in a position to do so, especially as he told Hitachi on the phone 
call of 17 April 2020 that he was out of work. I arranged for Mr L to be contacted to ask some 
further questions around his situation at the time, but weve not heard back from him. But 
based on the evidence available I think its probable Mr L would have been in a worse 
position overall if he hadnt gone ahead with the payment holiday.
Finally, while it may or may not be the case that a member of staff at Hitachi later told Mr L 
that he wouldnt be charged the extra interest, this isnt something I think it would be 
reasonable to conclude means Mr L should not now have to pay that extra interest.
Assuming this was said, it appears not to have reflected Hitachis actual position, which it 
clarified later.
Although I dont think Hitachis failings here mean that Mr L should not have to pay the extra 
interest associated with the payment holiday, I think Hitachi should still pay him some 
compensation for providing him with incorrect or misleading information, and delaying in 
providing him with the figures associated with the payment holiday. He was understandably 
frustrated and annoyed when he learned about the amount of interest he had been charged, 
and I think the situation was made worse by him earlier being given reassurances about this 
when this wasnt appropriate, and then the lengthy delay in providing him with the figures. I 
think Hitachi should pay Mr L £150 compensation to reflect the impact its mistakes have had 
on him.
So my provisional decision was that Hitachi should pay Mr L £150 compensation. Both 
parties to the complaint have responded to the provisional decision. Hitachi said it had 
nothing further to add. Mr L made the following points:
He didnt think £150 compensation was fair. It should be increased to £250 which 
was about 50% of the additional interest charged.
There had been faults on both ends and he was happy to take some responsibility for 
this, but that Hitachi should also take responsibility for poor and slow communication. 
He noted that he didnt have same resources or knowledge of Hitachi and was 
looking for a compromise.
Hitachi had given incorrect information advising no extra interest would be charged.
Because both parties have made their submissions following the provisional decision and 
havent indicated that they will be supplying further submissions, the complaint has been 
returned to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Ls points following the provisional decision. Having done so, I think 
they are points I had already considered when coming to my provisional decision. 
I had taken into account failings in Hitachis communications with Mr L. Indeed, their communication failings were the reason I thought the complaint should be upheld. I agree 
Hitachi provided incorrect information at times and were slow to provide the correct 
information. But Ive not seen anything in Mr Ls recent submissions which makes me think 
£150 isnt a reasonable amount of compensation in the circumstances. I remain of the view 
that it is a fair amount taking into account the non-financial impact on Mr L of Hitachis 
failings, which in my view was him being caused annoyance and frustration when he finally 
received the correct information. For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, 
Hitachis failings didnt cause a financial loss to Mr L  I think hed likely have been in a 
worse position than just needing to pay more interest, had he not taken the payment holiday.
It follows that I see no reason to change the award of £150 I referred to in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, and in the quoted extracts from my provisional decision, I 
uphold Mr Ls complaint and order Mitsubishi HC Capital UK plc to pay him £150 
compensation.
Mr L has asked how the compensation would be issued. From Hitachis most email to this 
service, it appears it would be prepared to either pay compensation via bank transfer or as a 
credit to his loan agreement, so he will have a choice assuming he accepts the decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman