DRN-1514467
The complaint
Mr A complains about delays and the service he received when they visited a branch of 
Lloyds Bank PLC to pay off their mortgage.
What happened
Mr A had a mortgage with Lloyds and asked for information about how to redeem it. As a 
result, Mr A visited the a Lloyds branch with his wife to transfer the funds required to repay 
the mortgage. 
Mr A says that he wasnt told a debit card would be required to complete the transaction 
when he discussed the redemption information with Lloyds. As Mr A had lost his debit card 
the branch staff said they werent able to process the transfer for him. 
Over the course of around two hours Lloyds explored options for processing the transfer. 
Lloyds has confirmed that none of the staff members available during Mr As visit had the 
authority to approve the transfer. Lloyds ultimately agreed that a CHAPS transfer could be 
made and collected the relevant information from Mr A in order to make the payment. 
Mr A complained and said he found the behaviour of the branch staff to be rude and 
intimidating. Mr A says that around five members of staff became involved and that he felt 
humiliated that private business was being discussed in an open environment. Mr A 
complained about the delay and service he received. 
Lloyds responded to Mr As complaint on 17 October 2019 and sent a follow up response on 
25 October 2019. Lloyds agreed that the process of arranging the instruction had taken 
longer than it should have and that the service provided should have been better. Lloyds 
offered Mr A £100 and apologised. Lloyds also said that the branch staff Mr A spoke with 
found his behaviour to be intimidating and that, in those circumstances, they can refuse to 
perform a transaction. Mr A didnt accept and said that £100 wasnt fair and that Lloyds 
should increase its offer to £500. 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. She thought 
Lloyds had dealt with Mr As complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr A didnt 
agree with the investigator and asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr A is upset. He wanted to transfer a substantial amount of money to 
repay an important debt  a mortgage. Its clear that the situation in branch was strained and 
that both parties found the behaviour of the other to be intimidating. Lloyds has upheld Mr 
As complaint and it accepts that the transfer instruction took too long to complete. But 
Lloyds says that, despite the problems Mr A experienced, it was able to arrange the transfer as requested which meant no additional mortgage costs were incurred. Ive carefully 
considered all the comments and information provided by both sides when considering how 
to fairly resolve this situation. 
Id like to explain why this case only relates to Mr A. The account, from which he completed 
the transfer, was in his sole name. I understand Mrs A was present in branch when the delay 
occurred. But the complaint relates to delays and problems experienced with an account in 
Mr As sole name. We can only deal with complaints from an eligible complainant. Whilst I 
note Mrs A is a customer of Lloyds, she isnt an account holder relation to the account being 
complained about. As a result, Im only going to talk about the impact of the issue on Mr A. 
As Ive said above, its clear that the situation in branch became strained after Mr A was told 
the branch staff couldnt complete the transfer without his debit card. I understand Mr A 
wasnt specifically told he would need an active debit card when he discussed the 
redemptions process with Lloyds mortgage department, only identification. But I wouldnt 
expect a member of staff working in Lloyds mortgage redemptions team to have any 
knowledge of whether Mr A had an active debit card. I think its likely they made a 
reasonable assumption that Mr A had a working debit card or, if it had been lost, had taken 
steps to arrange a replacement. 
Mr A says that the branch staff werent helpful and didnt want to explore other options to 
arrange the transfer, like speaking with the mortgage redemptions department. But the 
information Ive seen indicates that, whilst the situation in branch was fraught, the branch 
staff tried to explore different options available to approve the large transfer. And, ultimately, 
there wasnt anyone at the branch when Mr A visited who was in a position to approve the 
CHAPS payment. I understand Mr A is upset about how his request was handled, but I 
thought the agreement for him to complete a CHAPS transfer request for approval by a 
manager later in the day was a reasonable way to resolve the situation. And it led to the 
mortgage being redeemed on the correct day. 
I dont doubt that Mr A felt humiliated at the amount of time it took to arrange the transfer. Mr 
A says that members of staff refused to speak with him during the transfer process and were 
rude. I have to take both parties comments into account when making my decision. Whilst 
Mr A says Lloyds staff humiliated him, they say he was intimidating during the visit. I think its 
most likely that the parties involved were upset and found the actions of the other to be 
difficult. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt show that Lloyds staff failed to help. Whilst I 
agree the service provided should have been better, I think the members of staff were 
working to find a way for Mr A to complete the transfer.
I agree that Lloyds took too long to arrange the transfer and that the service provided should 
have been better. But Mr A has confirmed the situation was resolved in around two hours 
and that the mortgage was repaid as requested. I understand Mr A has spent time dealing 
with this complaint and that he found the whole situation to be frustrating, especially 
spending around two hours in a busy banking hall. Ive considered everything Mr A has told 
us about how his branch visit impacted him and the distress and inconvenience he was 
caused. Having done so, I think the £100 Lloyds has offered is fair in all the circumstances. I 
understand Mr A will find my decision disappointing, but Im satisfied Lloyds proposed 
settlement is a fair way to resolve this complaint and its very much in line with what I would 
have told it to pay, had no offer been made.  
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr A £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman