DRN-2099835
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Countrywide Principal Services Limited failed to set up a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for Mrs L. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L applied for a mortgage in 2013 through Countrywide in a meeting. At the 
meeting, they told their adviser unemployment cover was important for Mrs L. The adviser 
produced an illustration in which, among other things, he recommended a PPI policy for   
Mrs L. 
The cover was never put in place. Mr and Mrs L say it shouldve been, so they were shocked 
when Mrs L lost her job and was told she couldnt claim. They think Countrywide made a 
mistake and should put the cover in place retrospectively and pay Mrs Ls claim. 
Countrywide says it has no record of Mr and Mrs L accepting the policy and no direct debit 
was completed to collect the premiums for the policy. They say their records show Mrs L 
was making her own insurance arrangements.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ls complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs L 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. I know Mr and Mrs L 
feel strongly about this, so my answer will disappoint them. But I hope the reasons Ill give 
help them to understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Ive looked at a number of the documents Mr and Mrs Ms adviser produced as part of their 
meeting in March 2013. These include a mortgage planner document that says Mrs Ls 
insurance priorities are unemployment cover, followed by life cover, followed by income 
protection. Theres a priorities and needs document which sets out the advisers 
recommendations for Mr and Mrs L which are for buildings and contents insurance, for a PPI 
policy covering unemployment, and for life cover and income protection. Theres a quotation 
for life cover and income protection from one insurance provider. And theres an illustration 
from another insurance provider for household insurance and PPI.
This last document says it illustrates the monthly/annual cost of the insurance policies 
Countrywide has recommended. It shows a monthly cost of almost £36 for a PPI policy that 
would pay out just under £800 a month for up to 12 months if Mrs L lost her job. It says on 
the illustration that Mr and Mrs Ls application has been accepted, subject to the policy terms 
and conditions and Countrywide being given all documentation and information.
Mr and Mrs L say this shows they accepted the PPI policy and it shouldve been put in place 
 as their household insurance was. But I think the illustration is just that  an illustration. 
And I think it shows that, based on the information the adviser had inputted, the insurance 
provider would accept the risk of insuring Mrs L. I dont think it shows  or was meant to 
show  Mr and Mrs L were agreeing to go ahead with the policy.
During a meeting to discuss a clients mortgage and insurance requirements, an adviser will 
often make many recommendations, which its up to the client to take forward or not, as they 
wish. I dont think an illustration like the one Mr and Mrs L were given means the PPI policy 
shouldve been set up. To set up a PPI policy, I think its likely Mr and Mrs L wouldve had to 
fill in and sign more paperwork. And at the very least I think this wouldve included signing a 
direct debit mandate allowing the premium of just under £36 a month to be collected from Mr 
and Mrs Ls bank account. 
Mr L says he thought one of the two direct debits that came out of his account was for the 
PPI  although he now sees that one was for contents insurance and the other for buildings 
insurance. But neither of these direct debits was for £36 a month.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs L completed and signed any paperwork, including a 
direct debit mandate, for a PPI policy to be set up. No premiums for the PPI policy have 
been paid by Mr and Mrs L. And Countryside has also shown us an internal screenshot 
which, although its undated and doesnt give much detail, suggests Mrs L was making her 
own insurance arrangements.
So the evidence here isnt strong or clear enough for me to say its likely Mr and Mrs L 
agreed to take out PPI and Countrywide failed to implement their agreement. I think its more 
likely that, at the time, they decided not to go ahead with it even though  and 
understandably given everything thats involved in buying a new home and getting a 
mortgage  this isnt how they remember things now.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman