DRN-3326195
The complaint
Mr H complains that Scottish Equitable plc, trading as Aegon, paid too much in waiver of 
premium payments to his pension fund. He also complains that Aegons delays in
completing the waivers annual review have caused him distress and financial loss.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 January 2022, in which I set out the 
background to the case as follows.
Mr H finished work on medical grounds in 2016. He claimed on a waiver that was part of 
his pension policy, to cover future contributions. His earnings stopped during the tax year 
2018/19, which meant the annual amount he could contribute to his pension was limited 
to £3,600 gross. But Aegon paid more than this into the pension.
Aegon said it couldnt refund the excess to Mr H without proof that he didnt have earnings 
for the tax year 2018/19. Mr H couldnt provide the evidence Aegon was asking for, but 
following an internal review the business eventually accepted a printout of Mr Hs tax 
account from the HMRC website. A refund for the tax year 2018/19 was made in August 
2020.
There were also delays by Aegon in responding to some of Mr Hs correspondence, and 
the business paid £100 compensation.
Our investigator concluded Aegons internal review should have taken place sooner than 
it did. Had it done so, the investigator considered the refund would have also been made 
sooner. He said Aegon should pay £100 for the delay, and later said annual interest of 8% 
simple should be paid on the refund for the period April to August 2020.
Mr H was also unhappy that delays by Aegon meant the review date for his waiver claim 
had moved from May to November. He considered this meant hed lost out financially on 
the refund that was due to him. The investigator didnt find this was the case. He was 
satisfied that, following the review, payments to the plan were backdated using historic 
prices. So the investigator wasnt persuaded Mr H had suffered any financial detriment as 
a result of the review date changing.
The investigator thought it was reasonable for Aegon to consider moving the review 
date back to May if it was possible to do so.
Mr H said hed made Aegon aware of his earnings status earlier in 2019. So he thought 
it would have been reasonable for the refund to have been made before April 2020 (the 
date from which the investigator thought it was reasonable for 8% interest to be paid).
Mr H said moving the review date from May to November meant any refund was paid 
later than it should have been. So he considered the delay had caused financial loss, 
and would continue to do so if Aegon wasnt committed to the review on a fixed date.
Mr H was also concerned that the value of his pension fund may have suffered when 
Aegon had to sell units to pay the refund to him.
Aegon queried the interest rate on the refund recommended by the investigator.
The investigator reviewed the responses from Mr H and Aegon, and issued two further 
views. In the most recent view, he concluded that the date on which Aegon became aware 
of Mr Hs earnings status wasnt relevant, because it was going to refund overpayments for 
all of the months that he was a non-earner.
The investigator maintained that the value of Mr Hs pension hadnt been disadvantaged 
as a result of the refund Aegon had made.
The investigator said annual interest of 8% simple was the standard rate used by this 
service to reflect the cost of being deprived of money that the customer was entitled to. 
He said it is in line with the rate used by the courts.
The investigator looked again at the period for which Aegon should pay interest on the 
refund. He said it should be calculated from 19 May 2020 to the date it was actually 
paid.
The waiver annual review that should have taken place in November 2020 had been 
delayed. So the investigator said Aegon should also pay interest on any refund due from 
November 2020 to the date of payment.
Mr H responded to say that he still considered hed made Aegon aware of his non-earner 
status in July 2019. And he maintained that it wasnt possible to tell whether the value of 
his fund had suffered because of the refunds that had to be made.
Mr H also considered the original review date of May should be used for the purpose 
of calculating redress. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Aegon responded to say that it didnt consider the refund in connection with the 
November 2020 review had been unreasonably delayed. It explained the process for 
reviewing the waiver and said this was why the date for applying any refund could be later 
than 12 months from the date of the previous review.
Aegon agreed that interest on the 2018/19 refund should be calculated from 19 May 2020.
It said it could move Mr Hs review date to May if this was what he wanted, and carry out 
the reviews on a six month basis.
Before this case was referred to me, a previous ombudsman had set out her findings on the 
case as follows
Ive considered all the available evidence and argument to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me there are three issues to determine here:
1. Whether its reasonable for Aegon to carry out the waivers annual 
review in November rather than May.
2. The point at which it was reasonable for Aegon to have known Mr H 
was a non- earner for pension contribution rules.3. Whether the value of Mr Hs pension fund has suffered because of 
the refunds Aegon has had to make.
Review Date
Mr H considers hes been financially disadvantaged because the review date was put back 
from May 2019 to November 2019.
I accept that if the review had taken place in May 2019, its likely Mr H couldve made 
Aegon aware at that stage that he was no longer employed and had no earnings. If that 
had been the case, the refund couldve been returned to him much sooner.
Aegon has explained why its not always possible for reviews to take place and follow up 
work to be completed within a strict twelve month time limit. Based on what its said, I 
accept there may be some slippage in the timetable for carrying out reviews, and I dont 
consider a small delay would be unreasonable.
But by November 2019 the review that shouldve taken place for Mr H was six months late. I 
dont consider that to be a reasonable delay, especially given the consequences if an 
individuals situation had changed, as was the case with Mr H. I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for the review to have been completed no later than the end of July 2019.
Ive set out below my conclusions about the time at which it was reasonable for Aegon 
to have been aware of Mr Hs employment status. And Ive set out the basis on which I 
think interest should be paid on the refund for the tax year 2018/19.
If the 2019 review had taken place in May, or by July at the latest, the 2020 review 
shouldve happened at around the same time the following year. I understand Mr H 
hadnt received a refund for the 2019/20 tax year by February 2021.
Im satisfied that the 2020 review shouldve been completed by the end of July at the 
latest. So I consider interest on any refund for the tax year 2019/20 should be calculated 
at an annual rate of 8% simple for the period 1 August 2020 to the date of payment.
Aegons awareness of Mr Hs circumstances
Its not in dispute that excess contributions were paid to Mr Hs pension once he 
became a non-earner for the purpose of pension contribution rules. Aegon has 
confirmed that it will refund all of the overpayments for every month that Mr H has been 
a non-earner.
But I have to determine the period over which interest is payable on the refund. And in that 
respect, I consider the point at which it was reasonable for Aegon to have been aware of
Mr Hs non-earner status is relevant.
When Mr H wrote to Aegon in July 2019 he said:
In the year 2018/19 I did not pay any tax and as such I understand that for tax 
relief purposes only a certain amount of the visa waiver can go into my pension 
pot. Can you please let me know what options I have for the remaining funds
I can see there has been a lot of debate around the differences between a non-tax 
payer and a non-earner. I accept that Mr Hs letter didnt specify he was a non-earner in 
the tax year 2018/19. But I think there was enough information in his letter to indicate he was aware that his contributions were subject to the non-earner limit. So I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for Aegon to clarify with Mr H what his earnings position was.
As it was, Aegon responded to Mr Hs letter in September 2019. It said:
In regards to your query on how and when any funds will be paid to you, Ive 
checked this with our back office team. Theyve confirmed that we'll write to you 
requesting the relevant information in November during your annual waiver review. 
Providing the claim is still medically valid, we'll be able to refund this by cheque as a 
part of the claim.
So it seems Mr Hs new circumstances wouldnt be taken into account by Aegon until 
the annual review. I dont think thats unreasonable - although I appreciate Mr H 
considers the annual review shouldnt have been delayed beyond May 2019. Ive 
made findings on that point above.
Mr H has said he told the Aegon adviser he was no longer employed during 
the November 2019 review. On balance I think thats likely to have been the 
case.
By December 2019 Aegon was asking Mr H for proof that he wasnt earning. But Mr H 
told Aegon on several occasions that it wasnt possible for him to provide the evidence it 
was asking for. From what Ive seen, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Aegon to 
realise that Mr H couldnt provide that evidence. Aegon eventually decided it would 
accept the information Mr H had provided previously, and the refund payment was 
made in August 2020.
I dont consider it was unreasonable for Aegon to try to verify what Mr H was telling it 
about his non-earner status. And even if, as Ive suggested above, the 2019 review 
had been completed by the end of July, I accept its likely there wouldve been some 
delay while Aegon established the position.
But from what Ive seen, I think that by the end of December 2019 it wouldve been 
reasonable for Aegon to realise Mr H couldnt provide the evidence it was asking for, 
and to accept the information hed already supplied. Had it done so, Im satisfied that 
the refund couldve been made to Mr H by the end of December 2019.
That means I consider interest on the refund for the tax year 2018/19 should be calculated 
at an annual rate of 8% simple for the period 1 January 2020 to the date of payment.
Potential loss to the value of the fund following the refunds
Mr H is concerned that the value of his fund will have suffered, depending on the unit 
price Aegon had to sell at to produce the refunds its made.
To ensure Mr H is no worse off, Aegon should work out what the value of the fund 
wouldve been if the correct contributions had been made once it was aware of his non-
earner status. As Ive already said, I consider this was from 1 January 2020 for the 
2018/19 tax year, and from 1 August 2020 for the 2019/20 tax year.
If the value of Mr Hs fund is lower than it wouldve been if the correct contributions had 
been applied at the right time, Aegon should pay into the fund to make up the difference. 
But it shouldnt do so if this would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.If Aegon is unable to pay into Mr Hs pension fund it should pay any amount of loss, 
calculated at the date of any final decision, directly to him. But had it been possible to 
pay into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current 
basic rate of tax. I have assumed that Mr H will be a basic rate taxpayer, and so, 
allowing for the prospect of Mr H taking tax free cash, a deduction of 15% would be 
appropriate here.
Ive also thought about the likely impact on Mr H of what has happened, especially 
considering the reason why the waiver of premium needed to be invoked in the first 
place. I think this would have been quite distressing for Mr H and therefore Aegon 
should also pay £100 compensation to Mr H, in addition to the £100 it has already 
paid.
Aegon disagreed with that ombudsmans findings, however, saying the following in 
summary:
It made it clear in its waiver confirmation letters to Mr H in November 2017 and 
December 2018 what it required from him. Those letters informed him that the 
maximum which he could contribute and receive tax relief at source on was the 
greater of a basic amount of £3,600 and 100% of relevant UK earnings. The letters 
further said that if Mr H didnt have enough earnings to support the contributions, 
then it was his responsibility to inform Aegon so it could refund any excess. If he 
was unsure, the letters said he should contact his IFA to clarify this and advise 
Aegon accordingly.
But despite these letters, Mr H didnt contact it until 31 July 2019  and even then 
he didnt confirm his level of income, saying only that he hadnt paid any tax.
Mr H didnt notify Aegon of his income for the 2018/9 tax year until his complaint 
letter of 11 October 2019. This was therefore the first date it could start considering 
the process of refunding any of Mr Hs contributions.
It had made a number of suggestions to help Mr H provide the evidence it required 
to make the refund of excess contributions, but to date he hadnt supplied this. It 
had confirmed that once it had this, it would remove the excess contributions and 
pay these directly to him.
It only agreed to accept the information supplied by Mr H in December 2019 as an 
exception and to help resolve the situation. It therefore didnt think it should pay 
interest from 1 January 2020 for the 2018/19 tax year refund.
Once the full waiver had been paid into his plan, it confirmed this in its letter dated 
31 December 2019 and said that the next review would be in October 2020. But at 
no point did Mr H question that review date.
The 2018/19 tax year was the first review it undertook, but even using the personal 
tax account details supplied by Mr H, it still needed to confirm that this belonged to 
him. The review was completed on 5 August 2020, with £5,347 being refunded to Mr H directly. Mr H had supplied his bank details on 3 August 2020, and it queried 
as to how it could have made the payment before this.
It sent a further £8,894 on 11 May 2021 to cover the 2019/20 and 2020/21 tax 
years, which included £2,860 covering the period from May 2020 to December 
2020. Therefore, if the 2020 review had been completed in July 2020, it wouldnt 
have been for the amount settled as this covered a period beyond the date of the 
review.
It therefore requested clarification on the dates for the interest being paid and also 
what period the reviews were to cover. And it queried as to whether Mr H receiving 
money early, according to the suggested timetable, would then be taken into 
account.
It provided a breakdown of the payments made to Mr H, as follows:
oPremium from May 2019 to September 2019 is £695.16 (net) less £240     
(net) that we can apply each month = £2275.80
oPremium from October 2019 to April 2020 is £713.10 (net) less £240 (net) 
that we can apply each month = £3311.70
o£2275.80 + £3311.70 = £5587.50
o£5587.50 x 8% interest = £447  This is one years interest at 8%
oTotal refund is £6,034.50 for 2019/20 tax year including interest
To the figure of £6,034 it added £2,860 for the 2020/21 tax year, but no interest 
had been added to this as thered been no delay. In fact, according to the 
suggested timetable, this payment should have been processed in July 2021.
To allow future checks to be carried out, it approached HMRC directly, but before 
it could do this it needed a letter of authority from Mr H, which he supplied on 3 
July 2020. It couldnt therefore assess whether there was any excess to be 
refunded until after that date and it had received confirmation from HMRC.
But this wasnt an instantaneous process  it took time and involved third parties 
such as insurance companies. Once the process was complete, it could add the 
appropriate premiums to the plan, which could take up to a fortnight as it could 
only add one premium per day, and then refund the excess. It therefore 
disagreed with the suggested timescale set out in the provisional decision.
There was no financial loss, as the premiums were backdated to when they were 
applied. It had then removed the excess premiums and refunded the amount over 
the allowable limits rather than the amount taken from the plan. This placed Mr H in 
the position he should have been.
It also didnt think that the suggested rate of 8% simple interest was appropriate 
here. It didnt think that it was sufficient to refer to the rate applied by the courts, as 
this service wasnt a court. It said that this has, in the past, been justified by 
reference to interest rates a consumer may have paid on borrowing, but it wasnt 
aware that Mr H needed to cover borrowing. It therefore considered that the rate 
should be changed to reflect current interest rates.
It also noted the suggested additional payment of £100 in respect of the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr H, and that this had been described as being in 
addition to the £100 already paid. But it said that it had already paid Mr H £350 and sent him two hampers, worth about £60 each. It therefore felt it had already 
been more than generous to Mr H.
Mr H also responded to the provisional decision, saying that whilst he broadly agreed with 
the ombudsmans findings, he enquired as to whether he would be compensated for 
further financial disadvantage from December 2020  the date that it had been suggested 
the payment should have been made to him.
Mr H said that hed needed to sell banking shares to cover the period until the money was 
paid by Aegon, and that due to the changes in the share price, hed suffered financial loss.
My own provisional findings, taking account of the facts of the case and the submissions 
made by both parties, were as follows.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aegon has said that, when Mr H contacted it by letter on 31 July 2019, he was confirming 
that he hadnt paid any tax, and that he didnt finally notify it of his income tax for 
2018/19 until his complaint letter of 11 October 2019. But I would then wonder what 
Aegon in fact thought Mr H was telling it in his July 2019 letter. And I dont think it would 
have been a particular leap to either have concluded that he was confirming that he 
wasnt earning, or at the very least for what he had said to merit some kind of follow up 
enquiry as to the purpose of the information he was providing.
For example, Mr H included in his letter reference to him being aware of there being only 
a certain amount which could be paid by the waiver into his policy for tax relief purposes. I 
think this should have been a clear indication that further enquiries around this should 
have swiftly been made. And as with the previous ombudsman, I think that, had it done 
so, the process could have moved much quicker than it did.
Ive in fact noted that, in a response to Mr Hs earlier enquiry, Aegon wrote to him on 17 
September 2019, simply saying that any excess would be refunded to him. It made no 
comment on the steps which Mr H would need to take for this to happen, or the steps 
which it would take towards the same endeavour.
So I dont agree that October 2019 was the earliest that Aegon could start considering the 
process of refunding the excess contributions. This should have been from when Mr H first 
wrote to it in July 2019.
But once it had agreed to accept the information provided by Mr H in his email of 20 
December 2019, following the November 2019 review, it then took until 21 April 2020 to 
confirm this to him  four months. Whilst I appreciate that it might have taken time to seek 
the agreement of its tax and risk teams, these were nevertheless internal departments 
and Aegon wasnt reliant on third parties in those matters.
I think that was too long, especially when it might intuitively have been concluded, even 
setting aside Mr Hs complaint in October 2019, that his financial situation might have 
been somewhat straitened due to him no longer working. I think a period of two months 
should have been ample for this to have been resolved and confirmed to Mr H. This 
means that Mr H should have had a refund of excess contributions for the 2018/19 tax 
year by 1 October 2019.
Aegon has then said that, when Mr H was informed that the next review wouldnt occur until 
October 2020, Mr H didnt question this  and therefore neither should this service. But if weconclude that Mr H should have been entitled to an earlier review, then it wouldnt be the 
case that he would have needed to complain about this. This is a finding that this service 
is able to make, without Mr H needing to have specifically raised a concern about it at the 
time.
As it was, the review which began in November 2019 wasnt then finalised until 5 August 
2020, at which point Aegon paid Mr H £5,374  and Aegon has said that this was after Mr 
H had supplied his bank details on 3 August 2020. Aegon has queried as to how it could 
make payment to Mr H before hed provided his bank details.
The implication here appears to be that Aegons hands were somehow tied until Mr H 
provided his bank details. But to clarify, the request for his bank details was made in an 
email of 31 July 2020 [corrected from 2019 in the provisional decision]. So Mr H replied 
within three days, demonstrating no delay on his part.
Aegon has then requested clarity on the timescales being suggested by the previous 
ombudsman, remarking that it paid an amount in May 2021 to cover the excess 
contributions for the 2019/20 and 2020/21 tax years  and that if the 2020 review had 
been completed in July 2020, it wouldnt have been for the amount settled as this covered 
a period beyond that date.
I agree, but thats only because two years excess contributions were refunded at once  
in May 2021  due to, as far as I can tell, unwarranted delays in undertaking previous 
reviews. A review in July 2020, for example, should have addressed, and refunded, the 
excess contributions for the 2019/2020 tax year, and then a review one year later would 
have refunded the excess contributions for 2020/21. Had that happened, Mr H wouldnt 
have received any money early, as is suggested by Aegon  any redress payable by the 
suggested timeline would ensure that hed simply be receiving money when he should.
And in any case, it seems to me that by paying the refund for 2019/20 and 2020/21 
together in May 2021, Aegon may have been paying Mr H earlier than it might otherwise 
have done for the 2020/21 tax year, but it was still nevertheless paying Mr H the refund 
for the 2019/20 contributions considerably later than it should.
Aegon then asserted that it wasnt able to undertake its future checks with HMRC until Mr 
H had provided necessary information  again the seeming implication being that it was 
prevented from doing so until Mr H had provided a letter of authority. But as with the issue 
of the bank details referred to above, there was no delay on the part of Mr H in providing 
this. Aegon only requested this on 1 July 2020, and Mr H supplied it on 3 July 2020  so 
two days later.
Aegon said that the process then took time, and that the suggested timescale of this 
being completed on 1 August 2021 was unrealistic  although I think it meant 1 August 
2020. It said that this wasnt an instantaneous process, and that it involved third parties 
such as insurers. This may be a valid point, and as with the timescale for the initial 
process to have been completed after July 2020, I think a period of two months is 
probably more realistic. And so my current view is that the refund for the 2019/2020 
excess contributions should have been made by 1 September 2020.
As to the comments made by Aegon relating to the interest rate suggested by the previous 
ombudsman of 8% simple pa on any late payment, I think Mr Hs own commentary on 
what he needed to do in the interim  selling shares - probably addresses that point 
satisfactorily. The application of the 8% simple interest rate is designed to reflect a range 
of potential situations in which a consumer might find themselves, one of which, as noted 
by Aegon, is that of borrowing. Mr H may not have needed to borrow money, but hes taken other steps which have had financial consequences. And so, although actual interest 
rates may for some time have been lower, Im satisfied that 8% simple interest on delayed 
payments here is appropriate.
Putting things right
As with the previous ombudsman, and for the reasons set out above, my view is that the 
complaint should be upheld. The timescales Im proposing vary slightly however, and so 
my current thinking is that Aegon should calculate whether redress is due to Mr H on the 
following basis.
1. As set out above, even allowing for some slippage in the timing of the review from 
May 2019, the 2018/19 review should have happened by the end of July 2019. 
And as also set out above, this should have been concluded within two months. 
And so the refund of excess contributions should have been made by 1 October 
2019 for the 2018/19 tax year. To the amount of the refund should then be 
applied 8% pa simple interest from 1 October 2019 to the date of settlement.
2. The 2019/20 review then should have begun at the beginning of July 2020 after 
Aegon had requested, and promptly received, the letter of authority from Mr H - 
with excess contributions then being refunded by 1 September 2020. To the 
amount of the refund should then be applied 8% pa simple interest from 1 
September 2020 to the date of settlement.
3. The 2020/21 review should then similarly have begun by the beginning of July 
2021, with excess contributions then being refunded by 1 September 2021. To the 
amount of the refund should then be applied 8% pa simple interest from 1 
September 2021 to the date of settlement.
The total of A + B + C is effectively what should have happened. But this needs to 
be balanced against what actually happened, including the 2020/21 payment being 
made earlier than it otherwise would, as follows.
4. This should be the total of actual payments made, with the addition of 8% pa 
simple interest from the date that each payment was made up to the date of 
settlement.
The application of A + B + C  D should determine the overall position of loss to Mr H as 
at the date of settlement. And this should be paid to Mr H.
In terms of ensuring that the right deductions have been made from Mr Hs pension 
policy, and that it has the correct value, the actual number of units bought by the excess 
contributions should be deducted, to ensure there was no benefit or disadvantage to Mr 
H through removing monetary amounts.
Aegon has objected to the additional suggested payment in respect of the impact on Mr H 
through what has happened, and notably the distress, which the ombudsman said the 
matter would have caused.
Ive firstly noted that no such objection was raised in response to the investigators view of 
28 October 2020, which Aegon explicitly accepted. However, notwithstanding this, Ive in 
any case considered the matter afresh and whether an additional sum is warranted.
When Mr H contacted us in October 2020, he was clearly distressed by what had 
happened to date. To quote from his letter, he said:I
To summarise we have explained and given information as to why the 3 
methods of indicating no income are unobtainable. All they do is continuously 
repeat the request for information that does not exist. Having realised that this 
blocking process is flawed, they have now invented a new blocking tactic of 
underwriters. They say that the underwriters want information before they can 
act on our instructions however; the underwriter has already agreed the release 
of funds some six months ago. Therefore, it is nothing to do with the underwriter 
and it is Aegon who have illegally put the money into the pension fund against 
my strict instructions and the law.
As you can imagine this ongoing problem is causing me a great deal of stress and 
indeed financial implications. I hope this helps with your investigation.
Whilst I may not agree with everything Mr H has said in that letter, I think the delays 
incurred in this matter will quite understandably have caused him not inconsiderable 
amounts of worry and distress, at a time when he was no longer earning due to health 
reasons. Mr H had also already told Aegon earlier in 2020 that the delays were causing 
him financial distress, along with stress related health issues.
From what Aegon has sent us, I can see that a cheque for £250 was paid to him in 
October 2017, but this would seem to predate the additional complaint Mr H made in 2019, 
and which is the subject of this assessment.
And so, whilst Im mindful of what Aegon has said about the payments and goodwill 
gestures already made, and I accept that it paid Mr H £100 in response to his complaint in 
2019, I do think that an additional £100 is warranted here.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr H has said that he accepts my provisional findings. Aegon, however, has not, 
commenting further as follows:
Although I had directed that the first refund of contributions (for the 2018/19 tax year) 
should have been made by 1 October 2019, Mr H didnt supply evidence of his zero 
income status until 20 December 2020.
Mr Hs letter in July 2019 confirmed that he was a non-taxpayer. This was different 
from him confirming that he hadnt earned any income, and he asked what he could 
do with the excess money. Aegon said that it merely replied that it would return the 
money but couldnt comment on what he could do with it. It recommended that he 
speak to a financial adviser about it. And so it disagreed with my finding that this was 
the starting point.
Aegon didnt feel that it was appropriate to follow up with further communication as its 
waiver settlement letters put the onus on the plan holder to provide the evidence it 
needed. This was evidenced by its letters of November 2017 and December 2018.
Mr H didnt confirm that he was a non-earner until 11 October 2019, which was 
almost two years after it first wrote to him in November 2017.
It appreciated that it was the professional party, but it found it difficult to believe that it 
was reasonable for Mr H to have taken two years to tell it that he had no earnings 
and to ask for help in resolving the overpayment to the pension and return of funds to 
them. But this was the time Mr H had taken and it was being suggested that it should 
have engaged further with him following his letter of July 2019.Not only had it taken two years for Mr H to reach the point of contacting Aegon about 
his non-taxpaying status, but it then took him until 20 December 2019 to provide 
confirmation from HMRC as to his non-earning status.
As a pension administrator, it couldnt just take a policyholders word for what they 
were saying. It needed physical evidence from a reputable person or organisation 
before making payments. 
The starting point for Aegons internal teams to review and consider whether this was 
acceptable was 20 December 2019, but it still needed to confirm that the information 
it received was for Mr H, because the details provided didnt indicate that it was his 
own personal tax account.
Id noted that the effects on Mr H of the delay in making the refund of contributions 
would have been more keenly felt due to his non-earning status at the time. But 
Aegon queried as to why, if this was the case, it had taken Mr H nearly two years to 
bring it to its attention. 
Given the time it had taken Mr H to contact it in the first place, it considered that it 
shouldnt need to pay an additional £100 in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr H by the matter.
Aegon also said that a date needed to be corrected as to when I had said Mr Hs bank 
details had been corrected. Ive done so in the above text.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To firstly address the matter of how Aegon should have reacted upon receipt of Mr Hs letter 
of July 2019, its difficult for me to understand Aegons position here. On the one hand it 
acknowledged that Mr H was indicating that he was a non-taxpayer and that he was asking 
what he should do with the excess contributions. And on the other, the implication seems to 
be that this wasnt sufficient for it to proactively make further enquiries as to Mr Hs actual 
situation with regard to earnings, with the onus being on the policyholder to provide the 
evidence it needed. As Aegon has said, it merely replied that it would return the money to 
him but couldnt comment on what he should do with it.
But surely if Mr Hs letter and enquiry about what he should do with the excess contributions 
was enough for Aegon to recommend that he seek financial advice, it must also have been a 
reliable indicator as to why there might be excess contributions, i.e. that, as the non-taxpayer 
hed confirmed he was, it was likely to be the case that he wasnt earning. And this should 
then have been sufficient for it to have made further enquiries, or at the very least outline the 
steps which would be taken to refund those excess contributions, which would then have 
included Mr H providing evidence that he had no earnings.
Further, although the waiver settlement letters issued in previous years may have said that it 
was the policyholders responsibility to advise it that there were insufficient earnings so that it 
could refund any excess contributions, I think Mr H was making a fairly clear and genuine 
attempt to do just that. And had he been asked the specific question as to him having no 
earnings, which, as Ive said, I think would have been the reasonable response  rather than 
taking no further immediate action - Im confident that he would have confirmed his position.
Aegon has further said that Mr H didnt in fact confirm his non-earning position until 11 October 2019, which it said was almost two years after it first wrote to him with the 
requirements. But Im afraid I dont really see the relevance of the two years which had 
elapsed since the letter of November 2017, given that it seems Mr H was still earning in 
2017 when the first letter was issued. My understanding, as set out in the provisional 
decision and not corrected by Aegon, is that it wasnt until the 2018/19 tax year that Mr H 
became a non-earner. And it would have been rather difficult for Mr H to have confirmed that 
he had no earnings for that tax year before that tax year had ended, as Aegon then required 
of him. 
Therefore, although this is a repeated theme of Aegons response to the provisional 
decision, it didnt take Mr H two years to notify Aegon of his non-taxpaying status, as has 
been suggested. Id also find it somewhat odd if Mr H had confirmed his non-
earning/taxpaying status for 2018/19 in November 2017, following receipt of the first letter 
referred to by Aegon, or even following that of December 2018, without waiting until the end 
of the 2018/19 tax year  as he then did.
And Id like to be confident that this doesnt  or at least shouldnt - need clarifying, but Id 
seek to emphasise that its not my position that Aegon should have taken proactive action 
before Mr H notified it of his non tax paying status  this would clearly be unreasonable. Its 
the action, or rather lack thereof, following his communication in July 2019 which needs to 
be addressed here.
As to the point about Aegon requiring evidence of Mr Hs non-earning status, I dont 
disagree. My counterpoint is that, as set out above, this ought to have been requested when 
Mr H first alerted it to his change in situation in July 2019. And just as a reminder of what Mr 
H said in his letter, it was as follows:
I am writing to you concerning my pension plan with you. In the year 2018/19 I did not pay
any tax and as such I understand that for tax relief purposes only a certain amount of the 
visa waiver can go into my pension pot. Can you please let me know what options I have for 
the remaining funds.
I simply dont think that realising Mr H was telling it of a situation in which excess 
contributions might have been paid, most likely due to him having insufficient earnings, was 
the unreasonable leap of faith that Aegon purports this to be here. Or in other words, that Mr 
H saying he was a non-taxpayer, with waiver of contribution already invoked, might not 
intuitively or logically suggest that he was trying to tell it that he wasnt earning, or that there 
was perhaps some other purpose behind him contacting Aegon with that specific 
information. And if there was any doubt, Id question as to why Aegon wouldnt simply have 
sought clarity on this.
But to reiterate what Ive said above, Aegon had in any case seemingly joined the dots, by 
recognising that there might be excess contributions and that Mr H would need to seek 
independent advice on what to do with them once refunded. Id simply reiterate my query as 
to why it wouldnt therefore begin the process of making the refund at that point, and if 
clarification/evidence of his non-earning status was required, ask for it then.
So overall, and for broadly the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision, my 
conclusions remain the same. I think the complaint should be upheld, and that Aegon should 
undertake the redress calculation as set out in the provisional decision.
Ive noted Aegons comment relating to the further £100 I thought Aegon should pay Mr H in 
respect of distress and inconvenience, in that Aegon considers this to be unjustified given 
the time it took Mr H to notify it of his change in situation. Suffice to say, on the basis of what 
Ive said above on this matter, my view on that also remains unchanged.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct Scottish Equitable plc, trading as 
Aegon, to undertake the calculation and payment as set out in my provisional decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman