DRN-3443510
The complaint
Mr K complains Portal Financial Services LLP, incorrectly advised him to transfer his defined 
benefit pension plan to a personal pension causing him financial loss. 
Mr K is being represented by a Claims Management Company (CMC). For ease, all 
references to Mr K will include communications from the CMC.
What happened
In late 2013 Mr K said he was cold called by Portal, a claim it denies. It says Mr K 
approached it for advice. In any event, a discussion took place between Portal and Mr K 
about his pension arrangements. At that time Mr K had two Defined Benefit (DB) 
Occupational Pension Schemes (OPS).
On 18 October 2013 Mr K was sent an options letter. This letter was headed Releasing 
Tax Free Cash from your Pension. Amongst other things, the letter said: These days 
purchasing an annuity is not the only option open to those about to retire. If you decide to 
release some tax free cash from your pension then one of the things we would do is set up 
your pension so that you dont have to purchase an annuity when you decide to retire. This 
gives you much more flexibility in your choices at the time.
The options letter listed both Mr Ks OPS, which Ill refer to as OPS1 and OPS2. The value 
of each OPS was as follows: OPS1 had a transfer value of £79,451 with a critical yield of 
12.46%; and OPS2 had a transfer value of £29,808 with a critical yield of 61.1%. The letter 
explained the critical yield by saying The critical yield figure above is broadly designed to 
show how much a new pension fund would need to grow by every year in order to match the 
benefits you would be giving up from your existing scheme.
Under the heading What Are Your Options Right Now?, Portal told Mr K there were three 
basic options open to him which it said were as follows:
Option 1: Do Nothing
You could leave your pension benefits with your current pension providers.
Option 2: Pension Release
You could transfer your benefits and release a tax free cash lump sum of up to £27,314 from 
your pension fund, leaving the residual amount invested until you need to take a regular 
income from your pension.
Option 3: Take Full Benefits and Retire with an Income
You could take up to £27,314 as a tax free cash lump sum and use the remaining fund to 
produce an income, which may or may not be from an annuity. We would use the open 
market option to get the best possible deal for you.
A telephone consultation followed with a Portal adviser, after which a second options letter 
dated 20 November 2013 was sent to Mr K. Amongst other things, this said:
You currently have a pension with [OPS1] which has a Transfer Value of £79,451, from 
which you could release a total amount of £19,862 as a tax free lump sum. However, as the 
Critical Yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits with [OPS provider] is 
18.67% it would be against our recommendation to do this. Furthermore, you will be waiving 
your entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £3,250 per annum plus a lump sum of £21,672 
which is payable at retirement age 60. This letter didnt refer transferring the OPS2.
In this letter, the adviser told Mr K that if he (Mr K) decided to proceed with the transfer, in 
spite of the recommendation not to do so, Portal could help with this. However, the adviser 
said Mr K would need to be treated as an insistent client. To choose this option, Mr K was 
required to complete an insistent client form which was enclosed with the second options 
letter. Portal has been unable to provide a copy of this completed form, but said it asked 
Mr K to confirm he was aware of the benefits he would be relinquishing.
A suitability report (suitability report or report) dated 11 December 2013 was prepared by 
the adviser. This set out Mr Ks circumstances as follows:
He was 55 years old and married. 
He lived in rented accommodation paying rent of £200 per month. 
He was unemployed but was a registered carer for a family member and received 
total monthly state benefits of £420.
He had two OPS plans.
His disposable income each month was £46.
Portals adviser noted in the report he wasnt looking into the OPS2 plan because of the high 
critical yield and guaranteed minimum pension attached to the policy. In terms of OPS2, 
under the heading My Recommendation the adviser said he was recommending Mr K leave 
his OPS1 where it was. But he went on to say Mr K was being treated as an insistent client 
and said under the heading My recommendation is that you: Transfer your [OPS1] policy to 
a [name of provider] Personal Pension. The adviser said the recommendation would meet 
Mr Ks objectives which were to go on holiday and to cover general living costs.
Whilst the adviser noted in the earlier sections of the report he was not recommending a 
transfer, later in the report at page 15 he said: The reason I have recommended a pension 
transfer is due to the possibility that the benefits available at retirement with your 
recommended new pension will exceed the benefits that would have been available through 
your existing provider.
The transfer value of OPS1 and critical yield was the same as that set out in the second 
options letter. The adviser reiterated that if Mr K was to go ahead with this transfer, he (Mr K) 
would be giving up access to a pension (OPS1) of £3,250 plus a lump sum of £21,672 per 
year upon reaching 60.
The report set out some alternative ways for Mr K to generate cash to meet his objectives. 
This included taking out a loan, which the adviser said Mr K did not want to do. Under 
Disposable Income the report said: You [Mr K] wish to use your tax free cash to 
supplement your disposable income. And under Assets the adviser noted Mr K didnt have 
sufficient assets to raise the cash required. The adviser concluded: We were unable to 
determine other methods of raising capital for you beyond those listed above.
The suitability report went on to describe other types of pensions Mr K could consider. But 
these were mainly ruled out because they would not allow him access to his tax-free cash 
allowance and/ or he was not entitled to transfer into those schemes. Mr Ks attitude to risk was assessed as balanced, which, amongst other things, the adviser 
said meant he (Mr K) had a moderate level of knowledge about financial matters. Mr K was 
recommended to transfer to an income drawdown pension plan whereby he could receive 
his tax-free cash lump sum of £5,000. And based on his attitude to risk, the adviser 
recommended Mr K invest the residual £74,451 into a Life Strategy 60% Equity Fund. 
The report set out the fees which applied which included an initial adviser fee of 5% and an 
ongoing annual fee of 1%. The pension provider charges were also listed.
To accept the advisers recommendations, Mr K was asked to complete a declaration form, 
which amongst other things confirmed:
He had understood the advice he had been given particularly about the critical yield.
He was aware of the guaranteed benefits he would be giving up.
He was aware the advice was not to transfer.
He wanted to proceed on the basis that his priority was to go on holiday and have 
funds to cover his general living expenses over his retirement planning.
He was aware of all the charges that applied.
The transfer was completed on 10 January 2014 and the tax-free cash of £5,000 was paid to 
Mr K. His remaining pension savings were invested in line with the advice set out in the 
suitability report. Between April 2015 and November 2021, Mr K made several withdrawals 
from his pension plan totalling £60,771. 
In October 2020 Mr K complained to Portal. Mr Ks complaint was that he had been induced 
to transfer following a promise from Portal that the value of his personal pension plan would 
grow in excess of his OPS1. He considered Portals advice was negligent. He estimated he 
has lost out on around £40,000 as a result of Portals advice.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. In brief, he didnt think it had been 
reasonable for Portal to treat Mr K as an insistent client. So, he didnt think Mr K should have 
been assisted in transferring his pension savings from the OPS to the personal pension. As 
well as recommending financial redress, our investigator recommended Portal pay Mr K 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience it had caused to him. 
Portal disagreed. It said it had carefully followed the regulators requirements for dealing with 
insistent clients. It thought Mr K had been given clear information about the risks of the 
transfer, and hed decided to proceed regardless of its advice. Portal said it had assessed 
Mr Ks attitude to risk and so, given it had treated him as an insistent client, it had 
implemented an appropriate investment approach. Portal added Mr Ks decision to take 
further withdrawals validated its assessment of his need for flexible access to his pension. 
Portal asked for an Ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr K and by Portal. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities.The first matter to consider is what relevant regulations were in place at the time of the 
advice in 2013/ 2014.
The starting point is the Conduct of Business Sourcebooks (COBS) 2.1.1R requirement that 
a regulated firm should: act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client. And in line with the requirements of COBS 9.2.2R, Portal needed to 
gather the necessary information for it to be confident its advice met Mr Ks objectives and 
that it was suitable. In essence, this section sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory 
business to undertake a fact find process so the consumer can be appropriately advised.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes. COBS 19.1.2 required firms to:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or other 
pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits;
2) ensure that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to make an 
informed decision; 
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors that 
do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no later than when the 
key features document is provided; and 
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and its 
advice. 
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6 set out the following: When advising a retail 
client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a 
firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm 
should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the 
clients best interests. 
Ill turn now to the particular circumstances of Mr Ks case in light of these rules. 
Whilst Ive not seen the fact find used by Portal, its clear from looking at the suitability 
report, that it gathered the necessary information from him and the administrator of his OPS 
before preparing the suitability report. It used this information to calculate what is known as 
the critical yield. This was set out to Mr K firstly in the options letters and then the suitability 
report. As noted in the option letters, the critical yield, in simple terms, is the rate at which 
Mr Ks pension investments would need to grow after any transfer in order to replicate the 
benefits he was giving up from the OPS. 
The second options letter sent to Mr K in November 2013, said Portal was of the view that 
the figure of just over 18% for the OPS1 was unattainable. And this was the reason its 
adviser was not recommending the transfer. I think Portals recommendation was the correct 
one to make. Mr K held valuable DB guaranteed benefits with the OPS. And it seems he had 
only one other, relatively modest, pension which was valued at just under £30,000 at the 
date of the advice. So, I dont think it wouldve been appropriate to recommend that Mr K 
give up his guaranteed benefits and transfer his pension savings to a personal pension 
which didnt carry the same guarantees. This is clearly in line with the presumption the 
regulator set out in COBS 19.1.6.Portal says once it had delivered its advice to Mr K to not transfer his OPS1, he asked to be 
treated as an insistent client. That would mean Mr K was effectively disregarding Portals 
advice and asking that the transfer proceed in spite of it. 
But, in my view, the regulatory process, as Ive outlined above, wasnt just that Portal 
needed to advise Mr K that he shouldnt transfer out of a DB scheme, which was mainly 
focused on the critical yield aspect of its advice. I think the regulatory duties placed a 
number of obligations on Portal to ensure it had provided Mr K with sufficient information 
about the risks he was taking. 
I think the regulatory sections Ive set out above, make it clear that the consumer should be 
left in a position where they can make an informed decision before deciding on what course 
of action to take. And as noted above, the starting position is that the transfer was 
unsuitable. Further, it was also important for Portal to ensure it didnt act in such a way that 
persuaded Mr K to follow its insistent client process. 
So, in light of all that Ive set out above, Ill consider whether it was right for Portal to treat 
Mr K as an insistent client and to facilitate the transfer of his OPS1 benefits.
From the paperwork provided to this service, Im not persuaded Portal did enough to warn 
Mr K about the risks he was taking with his pension savings. In my view, from the outset 
Portals documents very much gave the impression to Mr K that its processes would simply 
facilitate his wish to take his tax-free cash lump sum. I cant see the documents he was 
provided with clearly explained the regulators assumption that generally transfers of this 
type wouldnt be considered to be in the best interests of a consumer.
Mr Ks reasoning, as set out in these documents, suggests to me his focus was very much 
on the output of his decision  which was to access a proportion of his tax-free cash. It 
doesnt suggest to me Mr K had been sufficiently advised about the risks of going against 
the advice to transfer to meet his objectives. All of the documents he was provided with 
simply focused his mind on the access he could gain to his tax-free cash allowance.
I note Mr K was given other options but these were quickly ruled out. So, I can understand 
why Mr K thought the only way he could meet his objectives was to access his pension 
savings. But by Portals own assessment, whilst Mr Ks income was modest, he did have 
monthly surplus income. And there were no recorded debts which needed attention such 
that access to his pension savings was particularly urgent or necessary.
I also note that Mr K only wanted to access a small proportion of his tax-free cash and he 
didnt opt to transfer his other OPS2. This all suggests a very cautious approach to 
accessing his pension benefits. In my view, rather than comprehensively and convincingly 
advising Mr K against the transfer, Portals actions simply served to endorse and encourage 
Mr Ks decision to transfer rather than to challenge it. A pension is meant to provide income 
in retirement not to pay for non-urgent lifestyle purchases (like a holiday) and there didnt 
appear to have been any assessment by the adviser about Mr Ks legitimate financial 
objectives on which to base advice, particular when doing so is likely to leave him worse off 
in retirement.
There are several instances of this but two of the most important are contained in the 
suitability report. The first is where the adviser said his recommendation was not to transfer. 
But immediately after this he went on to say: my recommendation is to invest in. Second, 
in the report the adviser said: The reason I have recommended a pension transfer is due to 
the possibility that the benefits available at retirement with your recommended new pension 
will exceed the benefits that would have been available through your existing provider.I think these statements didnt make it sufficiently clear to Mr K the level of risks he was 
taking with his pension benefits. In fact, I think they served as, at the very least, an 
endorsement of his decision to transfer. I consider the report together with the other 
documents sent to him, gave the message to Mr K that the transfer would be more beneficial 
to him than staying with his OPS1. 
On balance, I dont think it is reasonable for Portal to say it only effected the transfer 
because Mr K requested it to do so as an insistent client. I dont think Portal could 
reasonably conclude, in line with its regulatory duties, that Mr K was fully aware from what its 
adviser told him, that his best option was to take no action at all. Instead, I think from the 
very outset of its relationship with Mr K, Portal led him to understand transferring his OPS1 
which would enable him to access a tax-free cash lump sum, would be the most appropriate 
course of action to take. 
I dont agree with Portals argument that the further withdrawals made by Mr K meant it had 
been right to facilitate the transfer, as he needed access to the money. Firstly, this is with the 
benefit of hindsight. Secondly, whilst Mr Ks income was low at the time of the advice, he 
still, according to Portals own assessment, had a monthly surplus income. This may explain 
why it was more than a year before he made the first withdrawal. And finally, if anything, I 
think this shows the detrimental impact of Portals willingness to facilitate the transfer without 
first providing proper advice in that it allowed Mr K unfettered access to funds which were 
intended to provide an income in his retirement.
Based on all the evidence and information, I dont think it was reasonable for Portal to treat 
Mr K as an insistent client. I dont consider he was given sufficient information to make an 
informed choice. And I consider if Mr K had been properly advised he would more likely than 
not have followed Portals advice not to transfer. I think it was Portals offer to facilitate the 
transfer and its, often contradictory advice, that persuaded Mr K to transfer against his best 
interests.
For all these reasons, Im upholding the complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal Financial Services LLP to put Mr K, as far 
as possible, into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he 
would have remained in the occupational scheme. Portal Financial Services LLP must 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance 
as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for 
firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ks acceptance of the decision.
Portal Financial Services LLP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Ks contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on 
Mr Ks SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ks pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr K as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr K within 90 days of the date 
Portal Financial Services LLP receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr K.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal Financial Services LLP deducts 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr K how much has been taken off. Portal 
Financial Services LLP should give Mr K a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if 
Mr K asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Portal Financial Services LLP should also pay Mr K £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
arising from the disruption this has caused to his retirement planning.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and order Portal Financial Services LLP to pay redress as Ive set out 
under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman