DRN-2833764
The complaint
Mrs Ws complaint is about the settlement offer Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) made when 
she claimed under her buildings and contents insurance following an escape of water.
 
What happened
Mrs W suffered an escape of water in 2019 which damaged several rooms in her home. 
RSA accepted her claim and asked her to get repair quotes.
Because RSA considered the quotes excessive, it appointed its own contractor to cost the 
repair. There was a significant difference between Mrs Ws quotes and RSAs quote.
RSA asked Mrs W what shed want to cash settle and she asked for £45,000. RSA offered 
just over £9,000 inclusive of VAT and kitchen facilities, which was in line with its own 
contractors quote. Over the following months, Mrs W and RSA disagreed about the repair 
costs and the claim didnt progress.
RSAs final response to Mrs Ws complaint was a cash settlement of £12,347, with an offer 
to consider further costs upon receipt of evidence. Mrs W said she would settle for £18,500.
Our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld because:
RSA offered to complete the repairs, but Mrs W refused because she wasnt happy 
with its contractors;
the policy allows RSA to cash settle at an amount equivalent to its own cost to repair 
if Mrs W chooses the cash option, and
RSAs offer seemed fair based on the evidence available.
Mrs W didnt agree. She repeated her complaint that RSA wasnt covering the full cost of the 
repairs needed and asked for a further review.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Theres been a lot of disagreement between the two parties about the settlement. Ive 
summarised the background to this complaint, but Id like to reassure both parties that Ive 
considered everything provided in reaching my decision. Our rules dont require me to 
comment on every issue or every piece of evidence so, instead, Ive focused on the key 
issues. I dont uphold the complaint for the following reasons:
RSA offered to complete the repairs, but Mrs W wouldnt accept its contractors 
without first receiving five references. When it did provide a company name for 
checking, Mrs W didnt want it to do the work. Its offer to repair was in line with the 
terms of the policy. While Mrs W may have had good reason to want references, I 
dont think its reasonable to apply conditions which prevent RSA from meeting its 
responsibility under the policy. Im satisfied RSAs offer was fair.
Because Mrs W didnt want RSA to complete the repair, she asked for a cash 
settlement based on her quotes. RSA offered what it would cost it to do the work. 
The policy allows RSA to do this, so Im satisfied its offer was in line with the terms of 
the policy.
Looking at the cash settlement quotes, there will always be a difference because 
RSA will obtain discounts not available to the policyholder. But Mrs Ws quotes were 
over £20,000 more than RSAs. So, I think it was reasonable that RSA wanted a full 
breakdown of Mrs Ws quotes and for a further assessment of the work needed.
Mrs W is unhappy because RSAs settlement wont cover the cost of repairs. RSAs 
preferred option was for its contractors to complete the repairs, at no additional cost 
to Mrs W once the excess was paid. So, I cant say that its cash offer was unfair 
because Mrs W chose the cash option and the offer was in line with the policy terms.
Some of the additional settlement Mrs W wanted was to cover the cost of a 
replacement kitchen and unknown damage beneath the floor. RSA said it would 
consider any additional costs, if they arose, on receipt of evidence. I wouldnt expect 
RSA to pay for damage that hasnt happened yet or isnt known. It has offered to 
settle any further evidenced costs for the kitchen if its damaged on removal when 
repairing the floor. And if further work is needed for the floor, it has also agreed to 
cover evidenced costs. Im satisfied that its offers are reasonable because Mrs W is 
still covered for additional but, as yet, unknown costs.
Overall, Im satisfied that RSA accepted the claim and offered to repair or cash settle in line 
with the policy. This offer extends to any related repairs that become evident when the work 
is done. I havent seen anything in the evidence to persuade me that RSA should increase 
its offer to meet Mrs Ws claim, therefore I wont be asking RSA to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman