DRN-2808844
The complaint
Ms M complains that Northern Bank Limited (Northern) changed the repayment 
arrangements on the joint loan he held with her husband.
What happened
In June 2013, Northern gave a personal loan of £10,000 in the joint names of Ms M and her 
husband. Repayments were made from their joint account until October 2014, when they 
changed to come out of Ms Ms own account. The loan was repaid in April 2018.
Ms M complained that in October 2014, her husband visited the branch and changed the 
repayments to come out of her name  without her agreement or authority. So, Ms M made 
the bulk of the payments to the loan over its life. She said the bank acted without her 
signature and should reimburse her for the amounts she repaid.
Northern said the loan was in joint names. Each quarter, loan account statements were sent 
to Mr and Ms M. And Ms M also received a statement on her own current account each 
month. So  she could see what was happening. The loan was in joint names  so Mr M and 
Ms M were jointly and severally liable for it  that is, both together and individually. They 
thought that with the passage of time, the complaint was statute barred.
Ms M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that we could look at the complaint - 
as the incident happened in October 2014, and Ms M complained to Northern in August 
2020  and that was within the six-year period. Northern agreed. She went on to say there 
was no record at Northern as to how the change to the payments was made. The advisor 
who accessed the loan account and changed the instruction worked at a call centre  and so 
the change was likely made on the phone. There were no other records of the loan being 
changed at the time. In any case, Ms M and her husband were responsible for the loan both 
together and individually  so any dispute about who paid for the loan wasnt a matter for our 
service to get involved with. In the absence of any firm evidence, our investigator couldnt 
uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Ms M asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what happened here. In October 2014, the payment arrangements for the loan 
were indeed changed from joint names  to being debited to Ms Ms own current account. 
So, from then until it was repaid in April 2018, Ms M made the payments of £207.57 a 
month.
Weve asked Northern to go into their records to find out what happened  and our 
investigator is right  the changes were made at its call centre  so it does look like a phone 
call was made to make the change. Northern have no record of Mr M visiting a branch to do 
that. And with the passage of time, its impossible for anyone to be certain as to what 
happened. So  its just not possible for me to decide in favour of Ms M.
That being the case, I can see the loan was in joint names  and the loan agreement says 
that Mr M and Ms M were jointly and severally liable for it  that it, both together and 
individually. So  if Ms M is disputing that she paid more than her husband towards the loan 
 then that is certainly a civil dispute, and not one that this service can get involved in.
I can appreciate that Ms M is certain that her view of events is correct  and she will 
therefore be disappointed by my decision, but without definite evidence, I cant ask Northern 
to do anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman