DRN-3625955
The complaint
Mr W says that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted irresponsibly by 
allowing him to increase his overdraft limit and it acted unfairly in continuing to apply charges 
to his account whilst he was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws concerns and didnt think there was anything 
within the credit checks that should have led to Halifax questioning the lending and didnt 
think Halifax had done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly. 
Mr W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Ws complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Halifax needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Halifax needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr W 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Halifax did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Ws overdraft. Mr W was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So 
overall this means the checks Halifax carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to 
understand whether Mr W would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of 
time. 
Halifax says Mr W had an initial overdraft with a limit of £250 in December 2017 which 
increased to its highest limit of £1,400 by September 2019. I can see from Mr Ws bank 
statements that from this point on the overdraft limit started reducing so that by September 
2021 it was down to £500. All overdraft limit increase applications were fully credit scored 
taking into account information Mr W provided about his income and how Mr W had 
managed his accounts held with it, as well as information held by other lenders provided 
through credit reference checks. No adverse information came up on the credit checks, there 
was no evidence of other unpaid credit and Mr Ws other accounts held with Halifax were all 
in credit. Based on this information Halifax was satisfied his score was high enough to 
provide him with the overdraft facility and limits he requested.
I accept that Mr Ws financial position may well have been worse than the credit checks 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to Halifax at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told Halifax this. But Halifax was reasonably entitled 
to rely on the credit check it carried out. And given there wasnt any adverse information 
shown on the credit check, or significant outstanding debts elsewhere and his other 
accounts showed a credit balance, I think Halifaxs checks went far enough. 
So I dont agree that Halifax acted irresponsibly by allowing Mr W to increase his overdraft 
limit. Halifax carried out the appropriate credit check on Mr W and were entitled to rely on the 
information provided to it when assessing Mr Ws overdraft applications. And given the 
credits going into the account were similar to what Mr W declared, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Halifax to conclude Mr W would be able to repay the additional funds within 
a reasonable period of time. 
This means that I dont agree Halifax provided Mr W with an overdraft unfairly or 
irresponsibly. That said, even though Mr Ws overdraft wasnt approved irresponsibly, Halifax 
still wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr W if it applied any interest, fees and 
charges to Mr Ws account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mr W was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Mr W fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Halifax did treat Mr W unfairly or unreasonably though. I say 
this because having looked at Mr Ws statements I cant see anything to suggest that Halifax 
ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it being 
notified of this. 
I accept that Mr Ws account was overdrawn but until late 2019 it was barely being used and 
when it was used it wasnt used for paying essential bills but rather non-committed, non-
contractual and discretionary transactions. Mr W never exceeded his limit and the other 
accounts Mr W held with Halifax remained in credit and a few months after the overdraft was 
at its highest Mr W managed to pay it off in June 2020 before again going on to use his 
overdraft but at a reduced limit. 
I accept that this doesnt necessarily mean Mr W wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Halifax 
to any potential financial difficulty before Mr W got in touch. And in these circumstances, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with adding the interest, fees and 
charges it did. I also note that once Mr W did get in touch with Halifax it agreed to stop 
charging overdraft fees and interest until Mr Ws situation improved.
So I dont think that Halifax treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman