DRN-3488288
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC has not refunded the payments taken under a direct 
debit that she queried.
What happened
Mrs B contacted Lloyds on 26 February 2021 about a direct debit for £11.99. She thought it 
was a charge for her Platinum account, but said this had been changed to a fee-free Classic 
account. Lloyds told her this was not the case, it was a payment to a third party, originally set 
up in August 2010. Lloyds said it would raise a direct debit indemnity claim but failed to do 
so properly. For this it paid Mrs B £100 compensation. Two further claims were then made 
about the same direct debit. Lloyds refunded Mrs B six payments under claim two as a 
gesture of good will and rejected the third claim. The reason given was that the direct debit is 
in Mrs Bs name and payments have been taken each month over an 11-year period, so it 
was reasonable to expect her to have noticed them previously. So Lloyds said the claim did 
not meet the direct debit indemnity criteria. When Mrs B had called to make this third claim 
Lloyds had told Mrs B she would receive a refund, albeit it said this could be reversed.  
Our investigator did not recommend Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. He said whilst a 
customer not recognising the beneficiary of a direct debit can be a valid reason for a direct 
debit indemnity claim in these circumstances - where it has been taken successfully for 11 
years - it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim. He understood Mrs B had thought it 
was her account fee, but said as the two payments would have shown separately this didnt 
change his view. He felt £100, plus the six months refunds, was fair compensation overall 
for the poor service Mrs B had experienced when attempting to make her claim(s).
Unhappy with this assessment Mrs B asked for an ombudsmans review. She said she does 
not know who the direct debit beneficiary is  and is concerned this is fraud
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The direct debit guarantee enables account holders to receive an immediate refund from
their bank in certain  but by no means all  circumstances. Its purpose is to provide
protection to customers who have provided originators with access to their accounts in order
to collect money. But most genuine errors in payments will usually come to light relatively
quickly. Where thats the case, in most circumstances we would expect the bank to refund
immediately. But where several years have elapsed, as they have here, that has call into
question whether the claim is fair and valid. In such circumstances, Im dont think the bank 
is obliged to refund immediately and without question. I accept that in this case Lloyds has 
managed Mrs Bs request poorly, creating confusion as to what she could expect. I will 
return to this later.
The details of the direct debit guarantee mean that the entitlement to a refund isnt absolute. 
It requires that an error is made in the payment of the direct debit  with for example the 
date, the amount or the frequency. Typically such errors come to light soon after they are 
made. I havent seen any evidence of any such payment errors in this case. Here the direct 
debit was paid without query for over 11 years. 
Ive thought carefully about Mrs Bs explanation that she thought it was her account fee  but 
as that would have also appeared on her statement separately she ought to have been able 
to exclude that. I think the fact the direct debit was paid to a named third party also made 
clear the beneficiary was not Lloyds. So based on what Ive seen, I dont think the fair way to 
resolve this dispute would be for me to require Lloyds to refund the payments. I think Mrs B 
needs to contact the beneficiary to progress this dispute. I understand Lloyds has given her 
its full contact details. I am sorry we have not been able to resolve this for her, but in the 
circumstances I cant fairly instruct Lloyds to refund 11 years of payments under the direct 
debit guarantee. 
Lloyds paid compensation of £100 for not handling Mrs Bs first claim properly and refunded 
six months of the direct debit as a gesture of goodwill when Mrs B tried to re-raise the claim. 
Whilst I think Lloyds let Mrs B down by not responding to her third claim, but more critically 
by not telling her from the outset it would not be accepting her claim under the direct debit 
guarantee, I find it has already paid sufficient compensation in the round.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman