DRN-3136246
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the advice they received in March 2020 from Thornton & 
Baines Independent Financial Advisers Limited, to switch their investments into cash funds.
What happened
In 2015 Mr and Mrs S were advised by Thornton & Baines to place around £54,000 in ISAs, 
and to enter into an advisory service relationship. This consisted of Thornton & Baines 
providing advice on an ongoing basis, with regular reviews. Mr S attitude to risk was 
assessed as medium and he preferred ethical investments. Mrs S attitude to risk was 
highest medium - though after discussion, she invested in a slightly lower risk portfolio  
and she also preferred ethical investments. They were investing for the medium term, which 
was described as a period of five to ten years. 
On 14 March 2020 they were contacted by Thornton & Baines with an email titled A better 
service for your investments  with lower costs, which appears to have been sent to all their 
customers. This email set out that Thornton & Baines had been looking to source a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM) to provide a discretionary service for its clients and 
explained the benefits of that type of service. They explained it was something theyd been 
planning for some time, and that it would involve a switch out of existing funds into cash, in 
order to facilitate the move to the DFM. Thornton & Baines explained that:
given the backdrop of the recent coronavirus, we have had to bring forward our work As 
we are delighted with the new service, we are advising all of our model portfolio clients, to 
switch into cash. While we prepare the final details of the offer, then we will endeavour to 
come back within two weeks, with the final details. The reason we do not have it now, is we 
have not finished our final negotiating of the fees with [the DFM]. However we have already 
secured the best deal they have given any other IFA in the UK, so it will be a great offer no 
matter what the outcome is
All we require you to do at the current time is to decide if you want to move into cash and 
consider the new service, stay invested and consider the new service. Alternatively, you can 
remain in the same funds you are currently in, and we will review the portfolio in the same 
manner  but you will not benefit from the reduced platform fees/fund costs as negotiated by 
T&B with [the DFM]. 
Please click on the hyperlink below to select your choice.
Yes, please move my investments into cash, given the current financial climate, and 
while I consider the new investment service.
No, leave me invested, but let me have details of the new, improved service.
No, leave me invested, I do not want to consider the new service at this point.
Mr and Mrs S replied and chose the first option. Over the following several months they got 
in touch with Thornton & Baines to ask when they should reinvest, but were advised each 
time to remain in cash. In October 2020 they had a meeting with an adviser, who found their 
attitude to risk to be level five, which was described as balanced. 
On 10 November 2020 Thornton & Baines emailed their client base and said that in their 
opinion, it was a good time to reinvest. Soon after, Mr and Mrs S decided to leave Thornton 
& Baines and made a complaint about the move to cash and the fact they had not been 
advised to reinvest sooner. 
Thornton & Baines didnt uphold the complaint, and explained that all recommendations they 
made had been accepted by Mr and Mrs S, and given the uncertainty due to the pandemic, 
they felt the advice to reinvest came at the right time. As they remained unhappy, Mr and 
Mrs S brought their complaint to our service. 
An investigator at our service upheld the complaint, as she felt the advice to switch to cash 
went against Mr and Mrs S attitude to risk. She found that Thornton & Baines had not done 
enough to ensure their advice was suitable for Mr and Mrs S circumstances and objectives. 
To put things right, she recommended that Thornton & Baines compare the amount Mr and 
Mrs S received when they moved their money elsewhere, with the amount they would have 
had if they werent advised to move to cash in March 2020. She also recommended that they 
pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr and Mrs S accepted this 
recommendation.
Thornton & Baines disagreed with the investigator  in summary they said that had they 
completed a full advice meeting in March 2020, their advice would have been the same  to 
switch to cash due to the pandemic. They said they told Mr and Mrs S that they could 
reinvest at any point after March 2020, but that it would be against their advice. They also 
pointed to a phone call with Mr S in May 2020 where he said that he and Mrs S appreciated 
the caution shown by Thornton & Baines and that they were reasonably cautious 
themselves. The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, so the case has been 
passed to me for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In their submissions to our service, Thornton & Baines have said that it was Mr and Mrs S 
decision as to what steps to take  placing more emphasis on their decisions, rather than 
Thornton & Baines advice. I dont agree with that position, and Ill explain why. Any 
information  and in particular information presenting an option in a favourable way  given 
to Mr and Mrs S, must be considered in the context of the established relationship Mr and 
Mrs S had with Thornton & Baines. They had provided an ongoing advisory service, which 
Mr and Mrs S had been happy with for five years. The report issued to Mr and Mrs S in 2015 
said:
We recognise that all our clients have different financial needs and objectives and we will 
build a plan appropriate to the needs of each client.
So, its natural  and reasonable - for Mr and Mrs S to expect that anything presented to 
them by a Thornton & Baines adviser was considered suitable for their individual 
circumstances. Its also reasonable for them to have followed the advice they were given, as 
they had trusted the previous advice wholly and appeared happy with it. This is especially 
the case at a time of such uncertainty in the financial markets  most regular retail investors 
would rely heavily on advice given by their professional adviser at such a time.
Though it was sent to many clients, Im satisfied the email sent on 14 March 2020 
constituted advice to Mr and Mrs S  it clearly presented Thornton & Baines preferred option in a positive light and a reasonable recipient would have considered it to be advisory in 
nature. Given the background to their relationship, its reasonable for Mr and Mrs S to think 
they were being advised here. As such, Thornton & Baines were responsible for ensuring 
the advice was suitable for Mr and Mrs S circumstances and objectives. 
Thornton & Baines didnt carry out a review of Mr and Mrs S circumstances ahead of the 
advice given in March 2020  they didnt complete a new fact find or update the existing 
information they held. From the evidence Ive been given, the last time a fact find was 
completed was in 2015. Given the agreement entered into, I expect that Mr and Mrs S had a 
number of meetings with Thornton & Baines over the intervening years, however Ive not 
been provided with documents showing any changes in circumstances over that time. 
The investigator asked Mr and Mrs S to consider what their attitude to risk was in March 
2020 compared with 2015  they confirmed it had remained the same. Given they had 
remained invested in medium risk investments over the course of many conversations with 
Thornton & Baines between 2015 and 2020, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to find that 
their attitude towards risk hadnt changed significantly. So, I think its fair to rely on the 
information provided in 2015 in that regard. 
I also note that documents completed in May and October 2020 by Thornton & Baines, 
following reviews with Mr and Mrs S, also confirm their attitude to risk as balanced. Though 
the titles of the risk categories had changed, the definition of balanced is quite similar to 
that of medium.
In 2015, both Mr and Mrs S invested in medium risk funds  in the 2015 report this was 
explained as:
You are likely to be more comfortable and better able to adapt to losing money on your 
investments than someone whose attitude to accepting risk is lower
you would probably prefer your investment to go up and down less and make more modest 
returns than risk losing money for higher returns. However, you are probably prepared to 
accept some falls in order to make higher returns than just investing in low-risk investments. 
This means that you could make a loss on the amount you invest, particularly in the short 
term.
Based on this, Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs S were prepared to accept loss and weather 
disruption. They clearly understood that their investments were long-term in nature and 
would fluctuate in value  particularly in the short-term. The advice to switch into cash funds 
at the sign of trouble in the markets caused by the pandemic, seems directly at odds with Mr 
and Mrs S tolerance for disruption. As a result, Im persuaded that the advice wasnt suitable 
for their attitude towards risk. 
In the 2015 report, Thornton & Baines said that their approach to advising on poorly 
performing investments would be:
should any fund that we have recommended for you be performing poorly we will continue 
to monitor this for three months and should the performance not improve we may advise 
switching fund
We recognise that all our clients have different financial needs and objectives and we will 
build a plan appropriate to the needs of each client.
So, the approach set out in 2015 to signs of underperformance was essentially to wait and 
see whether losses were short-term in nature, and presumably to take the time to properly consider the markets and various influences on the performance of the funds. This isnt 
unusual, or in my view unreasonable, as these types of investments are typically expected to 
fluctuate in the short-term, with the view that longer-term, the fluctuations would be 
smoothed out. That approach seemed in line with the approach Mr and Mrs S wanted to take 
in 2015, in that they would be prepared to weather short-term losses. However, that is not 
the approach Thornton & Baines took in 2020, when they advised the switch without waiting. 
Throughout the progression of this complaint, Thornton & Baines have increasingly said 
their advice to switch to cash was due to the uncertainties that the pandemic presented to 
the market. However, this wasnt how it was presented on 14 March 2020. At that time, it 
was primarily presented as a switch to cash in preparation to use a DFM. That change gave 
no consideration to Mr and Mrs S desire for ethical investments, or whether their existing 
portfolio continued to meet their needs more widely. Investing in an ethical way wasnt 
mentioned in the March 2020 email, nor is it mentioned in the paperwork for the portfolio 
they were advised to invest in within the DFM. I dont think it was reasonable for Thornton & 
Baines to advise the switch from advisory to discretionary management in March 2020 
without giving any consideration to that element of their objectives.
The fact that Thornton & Baines advised all clients to do the same thing, regardless of 
individual objectives, also contradicts their statement that theyd act in line with individual 
needs. Thornton & Baines have explained that if they had taken the time to give full 
individual advice to Mr and Mrs S, then their advice would have been to move into cash 
funds. However, merely because that was Thornton & Baines approach across the board 
doesnt make that a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S. Im satisfied the advice was 
unsuitable, particularly given their risk tolerance, as Ive set out above.                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
In addition, the advice given in March 2020 wasnt balanced  it only focused on the 
positives of the DFM proposition. It briefly compared the difference between advisory 
services and discretionary  it said that under an advisory service, delays are inevitable, 
which wouldnt happen in a DFM arrangement. It didnt explain any other differences 
between the two  for instance the difference in cost. Nor did the email fully explain why the 
recommendation was being made at that particular time  it merely said:
However, given the backdrop of the recent coronavirus, we have had to bring forwarded our 
work
given the current financial landscape, we would like to suggest a move into cash now.
It didnt explain in what way the markets were reacting to the pandemic or explain Thornton 
& Baines opinion on why they felt moving to cash was better than staying invested. Nor did 
it explain any of the downsides of exiting the market, or what any delay in making a choice 
might mean. There was no discussion of any loss that Mr and Mrs S may have already 
incurred prior to that date, which they would be crystalising by exiting the market. 
Given how imbalanced the email was, I dont think Mr and Mrs S were given a fair and 
reasonable amount of information on which to make an important financial decision. Its 
unsurprising  giving the praise of the DFM  that they decided to follow the advice. 
Ive listened to phone calls that took place in March 2020 between Mr S and Thornton & 
Baines. I accept Mr S seems more cautious regarding investing at that time  but Im 
persuaded this is primarily because of the advice being given by their adviser to go into 
cash. 
If the adviser had properly considered their attitude to risk and fully explained the downsides 
of going into cash at that point, then I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S would have stayed invested. This is evidenced by Mr and Mrs S willingness to go back into the 
markets later in the year, showing they were keen not to miss out on the potential 
opportunities, and their clear tolerance for risk, as set out above. Im satisfied that had they 
been given full, balanced, information about their options at that time, that Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have chosen to change their investments at all. Its possible theyve lost out as a 
result, and Ive set out below how Thornton & Baines should calculate whether theres been 
any financial loss.  
As Ive found the advice to leave their investments was unsuitable and so the switch to cash 
funds shouldnt have happened, theres no need for me to consider the timing of the advice 
to reinvest.  
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs S were caused unnecessary stress and inconvenience by the 
advice they were given. Had they been given suitable advice in March 2020, I dont think that 
would have happened, and I dont think they would have lost confidence to the point of 
needing to find a new adviser at the end of 2020. I agree with the investigator that its fair to 
award £100 to compensate Mr and Mrs S for this. 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs S as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs S would have remained with the previous investments they 
held prior to the switch to cash funds in March 2020. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below 
is fair and reasonable in this situation.
What must Thornton & Baines do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs S fairly, Thornton & Baines must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs S's investments with the notional value if 
they had remained with the previous investments. If the actual value is greater than 
the notional value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than 
the actual value, there is a loss and compensation of the difference between the 
notional and actual values is payable.
Thornton & Baines should also add any interest set out below to the compensation 
payable.
Pay Mr and Mrs S £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by giving 
incomplete and unsuitable investment advice.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
ISAs under 
the Advisory 
ServiceNo longer in 
forceNotional value 
from previous 
investmentsDate of the 
switch into the 
cash fundsDate ceased 
to be held  
when Mr and 
Mrs S moved 
away8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlementActual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr and Mrs S' investments had they not been switched to cash and 
instead remained invested as they were prior to that switch.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Thornton & Baines Independent Financial 
Advisers Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Thornton & Baines Independent Financial Advisers Limited should provide details of its 
calculation to Mr and Mrs S in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2023.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman