DRN-4013631
The complaint
Mr C says the advice given and the arrangements made by R&Quiem Financial Services 
Limited (RFS), trading as Oval Financial Services Limited, resulting in his transfer from a 
defined benefit (DB) pension scheme, to take tax-free cash and an annuity, was unsuitable.
Mr C is represented by Return My Money (RMM).
What happened
Mr C was contacted by a former employer in 2012 about his deferred entitlement to a define 
benefit (DB) pension. It was offering an enhanced transfer value if he were to leave the 
Scheme. It would also meet the cost of advice to be provided by RFS.
RFS sent Mr C a letter of introduction on 9 March 2012. It reiterated the Schemes enhanced 
transfer offer, noted that as he was over 55 not only did he have the option of transferring his 
pension, but he could also access benefits immediately. It also informed him that to be able 
to do any of this hed need independent financial advice, which it could offer free of charge.
Mr C agreed to take advice about his pension options. On 16 March RFS wrote to him 
explaining next steps, including the completion of a fact-find. The letter said that once it had 
received this information it would provide a report with advice about whether or not to accept 
the Schemes offer. It noted that the enhanced transfer value offer was time limited until 4 
May 2012 and that he needed to allow himself enough time to make his decision.
Mr C completed the fact-find on 21 March 2012. This provided information about his 
circumstances, objectives and attitude to risk. I cant see that he ever met with the adviser.
Its recorded that Mr C was married with no financial dependents. His background was in 
construction and he was self-employed. The fact-find suggests at the time he didnt have an 
income, although RMM says he was earning £65,000 a year. His wife had a salary of around 
£30,000 a year. Asked about his financial position he said he could manage on his existing 
income levels, but could do with extra income to cover day to day living and leisure costs. 
They had some unsecured loans, but could comfortably make repayments. A detailed 
income and expenditure analysis wasnt completed.
Mr and Mrs C owned their home, with an outstanding mortgage of around £160,000. They 
were expecting to downsize their home in the near future. They had no savings or 
investments and no other liabilities. They also completed a health questionnaire. It was 
recorded that Mr Cs male relatives had a history of heart problems and passing before 
reaching the age of 50.
Mr C had been planning to retire at 65. He wasnt ready to stop working but wanted to keep 
his options open with regards to retirement and have the flexibility to decide when the time 
came. Its recorded that his Scheme benefits were his only pension provision.
Mr C was asked to respond to a series of questions about basic pension payment options. 
He indicated that he wanted a pension that increased in payment with the retail prices index 
(RPI). In the event of his death he wanted a guarantee period of 5 years of payment 
available to his wife. And an ongoing pension for her set at 50% of what his benefits 
wouldve been. Asked how important the availability of a lump sum was to him, Mr C 
responded that it wouldnt influence his thinking.
On 27 April 2012 RFS sent Mr C a letter with its suitability report. It said:
Our information shows that the immediate pension available from [the Scheme] now is 
lower than the current level of your preserved pension at Normal Retirement Date (NRD). If 
you take benefits from the scheme now, the amount you will receive at your NRD will be 
lower than if you do not start to take the pension until your NRD.
Based on all the information you have provided there is no evidence to suggest that you 
have an immediate need to take your pension and/or tax free cash lump sum. Therefore I 
believe it to be in your best interest to leave your benefits as they are and take your pension 
at your NRD.
You indicated that you intend to retire at age 65. Therefore I recommend you defer taking 
your pension now in order to maximise your pension when you come to retire.
You currently manage on existing income levels and therefore do not have an immediate 
critical need for a pension income and/or tax free cash lumpsum.
You are not yet ready to retire but would like to keep your options open with regard to 
retirement and have the added flexibility to decide when the time comes.
When your [Scheme pension] comes into payment you will receive annual increases which 
will broadly be in line with inflation.
Your [Scheme pension] includes a spouses pension which could potentially be valuable to 
you in the future.
If you died within 5 years of commencing drawing your [Scheme pension] then 100% of 
your pension will continue to be paid for the balance of the period of 5 years.
We do not believe you have an immediate need to re-shape your retirement benefits by 
purchasing a lifetime annuity, as your preferences for the features of the annuity you have 
detailed on the fact find are broadly similar to the features offered by the Scheme.
So, RFS recommended Mr C should keep his benefits in the Scheme he was already a 
member of. It went on to compare the benefits available from a lifetime annuity, which it said 
hed indicated on the fact-find was his preferred type of pension, with what was available 
from his DB Scheme.
RFS said his preferred annuity would provide him with about £13,400 tax-free cash (TFC) 
and an annuity of £1,200 a year from 2012. His DB Scheme would provide equivalent 
benefits of £10,350 TFC and an annual pension of £1,550, assuming he took those benefits 
early as well.
In the final section of its letter, RFS set out next steps for Mr C. It said the final decision was 
for him to make. It said if he didnt accept its recommendation he could still proceed with the 
transfer and accept the Schemes enhanced offer.
On 8 May 2012, RFS wrote to Mr C referring to the letter and suitability report it had sent him 
on 27 April 2012. It was chasing a response and said that if he wanted to proceed he would 
need to return the documents it had sent him by 15 May 2012.Mr C decided to transfer his DB Scheme benefits. And on 18 May 2012 RFS wrote to him 
confirming that as hed completed the decision and declaration form, hed be acting against 
its advice.
RFS also confirmed that Mr C had opted for a different annuity, this didnt provide his wife 
with any benefits in the event of his death, aside from the guarantee period. And it wouldnt 
be increased each year for inflation. Because of these changes he would receive an annuity 
of around £2,300.
RFS asked Mr C to sign a copy of its letter confirming he understood the risks of accepting 
the Schemes early retirement offer and that he wanted to proceed on an insistent client 
basis.
In May 2021 Mr C responded to a non-specific marketing email issued by RMM about 
potential issues with historical DB transfer transactions. In October 2021, it raised several 
concerns with RFS on his behalf about what had happened in 2012. In broad terms it said 
hed been provided with negligent advice to transfer his safeguarded benefits. It said RFS 
hadnt complied with regulations about giving advice on DB pensions. And it said RFSs 
recommendations had resulted in financial detriment to him.
I note that some specific elements of the case RMM brought against RFS couldnt have 
been correct, for example it asserted that Mr C had been promised that the value of his 
transferred benefits would grow in excess of what wouldve been possible in the Scheme. 
But since he opted for a level annuity product, this was clearly not the case. Nor can I see 
that RSF ever advised him of such.
Similarly RMM made points about the ongoing costs Mr C would incur as a result of the 
transfer of his pension benefits. And that he would be exposed to investment risks. It seems 
to have failed to get to grips with his case. It seems to have taken a templated approach to 
bringing Mr Cs complaint, which hasnt been helpful. Nevertheless, it has raised some 
legitimate concerns on his behalf which require addressing.
RFS responded to RMM on 29 November 2021. It said hed brought his complaint too late 
and so didnt consider the merits of his case.
Mr C disagreed and brought his case to this Service. An Investigator found his complaint 
was one this Service could consider. She went on to uphold it, concluding that RFSs advice 
and approach to handling him as an insistent client had been flawed.
RFS didnt engage with the arguments the Investigator had made about the merits of the 
case. It asked for an ombudsmans decision on the jurisdiction of his complaint.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Cs case 
was passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision in February. Neither 
party has submitted any new evidence or arguments for me to consider. As such I see no 
reason to depart from my initial findings and conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
I consider Mr Cs case is within the jurisdiction of this Service. Further Im upholding his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Jurisdiction
Our service was set up by Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(FSMA). Its important to make clear that as a public body we dont have a general, at large, 
power to investigate any complaint. We can only investigate what FSMA and the rules made 
under it say we can  this sets the boundaries of our scheme. And we have no legal power 
to investigate complaints that are beyond our jurisdiction.
FSMA gives the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) the power to say what complaints we can 
and cant consider. The FCA has set these out in the Dispute Resolution chapter of its 
Handbook (also known as DISP or the DISP rules).
If a business doesnt consent, this Service cant consider a complaint which isnt made within 
specified time limits. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
More than:
six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably to 
have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;unless:
In the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or 
DISP 2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr C is worried hes lost out because of the advice and arrangements made by RFS, which 
he says led to the transfer his DB pension, taking TFC and purchasing an annuity with the 
proceeds.
Taking the six-year rule first, a complaint is out of time if its referred to our Service more 
than six years after the event complained about. Thats unless the complaint was referred to 
the respondent business within that period and the complainant has a written 
acknowledgement or other record of the complaint having been received.
Mr Cs complaint is said to have been raised following a contact he had from RMM in May 
2021. It sent a letter on his behalf to RFS in October 2021. And RFS issued a final response 
to him in November 2021. As the advice complained about happened in 2012, his case is 
out of time on the six-year limb of the test.
In respect of the three-year test. I need to decide when Mr C became aware, or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, that he had a cause to complain. And having established 
that date, determine whether he brought his complaint within three years of it.In making its case to time bar Mr C, RFS says he ought reasonably to have been aware of 
cause for complaint at the time it provided him with advice in 2012. In its final response to 
him it said:
Your dealings with [RFS] in relation to the advice provided took place between March and 
May 2012, which is more than six years ago. You were made aware of the difference 
between income from the [DB Scheme] and the annuity which was purchased in 2012, and 
the annuity income has been paid on an ongoing basis since. As such, we consider that 
more than three years have passed since you became aware, or ought reasonably to have 
been aware, that you may have cause to complain.
We are also not persuaded in respect of there being additional knowledge which you would 
have acquired, that was not available more than three years ago, and which has prompted 
the complaint in October 2021.
In rejecting the Investigators view on jurisdiction it said:
by definition, insisting on going against financial advice in 2012 would be a cause for 
concern.
The suitability report RFS produced for Mr C was neutral about whether he should transfer 
or not, rather it set out some of the basic facts and the pros and cons. However, the covering 
letter it sent him did clearly state its recommendation was for him to leave his benefits in the 
DB Scheme. It also detailed its reasoning.
RFS essentially argues Mr C must reasonably have known hed be worse off in retirement 
than if he stayed with his DB scheme  and there can be no argument to say he didnt 
become aware of a cause for complaint at this time. I disagree.
Mr C knew he was transferring his pension to a new provider, and with that accepting certain 
risks that had been explained to him. But thats different to being reasonably aware he had 
cause for complaint. I dont think its likely Mr C would have gone ahead with the 2014 
transfer if hed have thought (or likely thought) from the very beginning that the advice 
process was flawed in some way. Which is what hes complaining about now  leaving aside 
whether he is right about that or not.
My conclusion here is strengthened by the fact that RFS was the principal agent in 
facilitating and arranging Mr Cs transfer of pension in order that he could access TFC and 
buy an annuity.
I think Mr C became aware of cause for complaint in May 2021 shortly after contact from 
RMM about potential issues with DB transfers. RMM raised his complaint with RFS in 
October 2021 and RFS responded the following month. So, based on the information 
available to me, his complaint is duly made and this Service can consider it. Ill now go on to 
think about the merits of his case.
The merits of the case
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Cs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by RFS for Mr C. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like RFS. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
At the time of the advice RFS gave Mr C, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from DB schemes:
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewhether to transfera firm should start by assuming that a transferwill not be 
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, RFS was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr C to be able to make 
an informed decision.
- Give Mr C a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr C understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
Did RFS adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think RFS met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why. 
There are a number of documents relating to RFSs transaction with Mr C that are important 
to my consideration, these include the fact-find, the suitability letter and report, and letters 
relating to the insistent client process it followed.
RFS says it clearly advised Mr C not to transfer his DB pension. But he wanted to proceed 
nonetheless. On 10 May 2012 he signed a Members Decision and Discharge Form. He 
ticked a box to say he wanted to accept the enhanced value offered by his DB Scheme to 
transfer and take early retirement benefits. The form noted that by doing so hed lose any 
protections and guarantees and that the decision was irrevocable.
RFS wrote to Mr C on 18 May confirming the arrangements for transferring Mr Cs pension. 
He was asked to complete the following declaration:
I confirm that I fully understand the risks and implications of accepting the Early Retirement 
Offer. I have read and understood the contents of this letter and confirm that I wish to 
proceed on an insistent client basis.
Ive thought carefully about what RFS has said.Where a firm decides to transact with a customer on an insistent client basis, it should 
communicate with them:
- In terms that are clear, fair and not misleading.
- Having regard for the information needs of the client such that the client can 
understand.
- That it hasnt recommended the transaction and that it will not be in accordance with 
the personal recommendation.
- The reasons why it isnt in accordance with that personal recommendation.
- The risks of the transaction proposed by the client.
- The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction.
RFS also needed to obtain Mr Cs acknowledgement that the transaction wouldnt be in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by it; and the transaction was being 
carried out at his request. I think this acknowledgement ideally shouldve been in Mr Cs own 
words.
Although it might be argued that these regulatory requirements post-date the advice RFS 
gave Mr C in 2012, I dont think such a position is sustainable. I would draw attention to the 
specific FCA principles Ive already set out. They were in place well before RFS gave its 
advice. The principles are the keystone from which most other guidance flows. I think a firm 
adhering to the principles shouldve ensured any insistent client process it operated could 
stand up against what was clearly being provided for in them.
I have concerns about the insistent client process RFS followed with Mr C. And on balance, 
Ive concluded it was flawed because:
- Theres no evidence Mr C was knowledgeable in pension or investment matters.
- While its suitability letter for Mr C did say proceeding would be against its advice, 
this was somewhat undermined by information it provided in the same 
communication about how he could proceed. And the detailed suitability report it 
produced was entirely neutral.
- Mr Cs decision to transfer wasnt rationale. As RFS itself noted, taking his benefits 
early would reduce his income in retirement; he had no immediate need for TFC or a 
pension income; he didnt intend on retiring until he reached 65; his Scheme provided 
for indexation pre and post retirement; his preferred pension product, said to be an 
annuity, had broadly the same features as his DB Scheme.
- Mr Cs decision making in relation to the annuity he opted for left him exposed, for 
example he ended up with a contract that made no provision for his wife in the event 
of his passing, and no indexation.
- Theres no evidence of RFS having the sort of interaction with Mr C that I wouldve 
expected given the magnitude of the decision he was taking. Instead, it seems to 
have conducted its advice at arms-length and in correspondence. I cant see that it 
effectively attempted to help him understand why the transfer wasnt in his interest.
- There are significant gaps in the information Mr C received in the advice process, for 
example in terms of planning for his income in retirement. So how could his decision 
making be said to be fully informed?
- There are weaknesses with the advice process RFS followed, not least in terms of 
the time pressures Mr C was put under to make his decision. Its suitability letter and 
report were issued at the end of April 2012, and the supposed deadline for his decision was 4 May 2012. After this the Schemes enhanced offer would be 
withdrawn.
Ill now consider some of these matters in a little more detail.
Theres no evidence Mr C had knowledge and experience of pension and investment
matters. I think this shouldve been clear from the information RFS gleaned. This shouldve 
put it on notice that it had to be careful if it was to take matters through the insistent client 
route. And its important context when I consider what happened to him.
Theres no dispute RFSs suitability letter stated that it was against its advice for Mr C to 
transfer from his DB scheme. But at the end of its short letter there was a section about next 
steps. This said:
The final decision is for you to make; you do not need to accept our recommendation, but it 
is important that you are aware of the advantages and disadvantages of the different 
options.
I am recommending that you do not accept the early retirement offer and therefore if you 
would like to go with our recommendation then there is no action that you need to take. 
Once the offer has expired your pension will remain with the Scheme and will be paid at your 
Normal Retirement Age.
Alternatively, if you would prefer to choose an option against our recommendation please 
complete the Decision and Discharge Form accordingly and return it in the prepaid envelope 
provided.
Once we have received the completed form we will send you the relevant application forms 
to proceed with your chosen option.
RFS didnt get to the bottom of why Mr C wanted to transfer his DB pension. But it knew 
there were no strong arguments for him doing so, quite the reverse. It hasnt done enough to 
satisfy me that it provided him with an effective advice service to ensure he was fully 
informed and understood the potential consequences of his actions. Instead, it failed to 
challenge his decision making and facilitated a transaction knowing it was highly likely to 
cause him financial harm in retirement.
Another telling problem for RFS in this case are important information weaknesses. For 
example, I cant see that RFS effectively moved from high level assertions about the 
possibility for Mr C to be worse off after the transfer, into the realms of practical monetary 
implications for his retirement, over his lifetime.
Ive not seen how he was given the right information at the right time to be able to weigh 
properly how far his retirement benefits could be eroded or to appreciate the medium and 
long term consequences of such. Ive not seen evidence that RFS effectively advised Mr C 
about the long-term nature of pension planning. The need for a pot of funds to provide an 
income for many years ahead.
The actual process RFS followed in advising Mr C between March and May 2012 was 
flawed. For example, he was put under an unreasonable time pressure between when he 
wouldve received the suitability letter and report at the end of April and the deadline he was 
informed of for making his decision on 4 May 2012. When he hadnt made a decision by this 
deadline, it chased him giving him a further week to make a decision.
In addition, I find there was insufficient separation between delivery of its advice and 
notification of how Mr C could still proceed despite its recommendation that he shouldnt. 
Indeed, this was all contained in the same letter.Further, RFS failed to secure a letter signed by Mr C, which set out in his own words why 
despite its recommendation, he still wanted to proceed with the transfer.
Its arguable RFSs focus was on facilitating a transaction for Mr C rather than providing him 
with fully formed advice about his retirement planning. Its approach more likely than not 
reinforced what was in his mind about transferring his retirement provision, rather than acting 
as a bulwark against precipitous action.
So, RFS hasnt satisfied me that it treated Mr C fairly by helping him to understand the 
significance of the decision he was about to make. He may have signed an insistent client 
form, but this doesnt absolve it from acting with due care and skill.
RFS accepts the transfer of Mr Cs DB pension wasnt suitable. I agree.
Considering the financial case alone. The cash equivalent enhanced transfer value Mr C 
was offered by the Scheme of about £53,500 wasnt particularly attractive. It represented 
around 24 times the annual pension hed accrued up until 2012, without allowing for any 
indexation from that point.
RFSs advice was given during the period when this Service was publishing 'discount rates' 
on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, but I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
wouldve been considered reasonably achievable when it advised him in 2012.
The pension transfer analysis report commissioned by RFS noted that the investment return 
(critical yield) required to match Mr Cs deferred benefits at his NRD was 8.9% per year, if he 
were to retire at 65 as he indicated, taking all the benefits as an income. If hed chosen to 
take TFC, the figure was 6.6%. This compares with the discount rate of 5% for four years to 
retirement in this case. This doesnt even factor in matters such as his cautious appetite for 
risk, which wouldve meant lower returns. Mr C was more likely than not to receive benefits 
of a materially lower overall value than provided for in his DB scheme.
If a transfer wouldnt improve on the benefits of the scheme, there had to be some other 
strong justification for Mr C relinquishing the valuable guarantees that it provided him  what 
was this?
From the available evidence, there was no pressing need or strong argument in 2012 for Mr 
C to move away from his DB scheme. But there were significant risks in him doing so. His 
benefits in the scheme were guaranteed, with provision for increases each year. And it was 
his only pension aside from any state pension entitlement.
In respect of Mr Cs assessed attitude to risk  the process RFS followed was very basic. It 
appears he was asked three questions as part of the fact-finding exercise. And these were 
more focused on helping it to decide which pension product might be suitable for him, rather 
than achieving any proper insight to this important matter.
I think RFS also needed to have assessed his capacity for loss. Given what we know about 
his pension provision, and the situation of his household with respect to assets, savings and 
investments, its reasonable to deduce he had no capacity for loss in terms of his retirement 
planning.
Although Mr C was using his final salary fund to buy an annuity, which meant he wasnt 
being exposed to investment risk in the future, he was taking on the risk of being locked into a contract for life from the age of 60, for perhaps 25-30 years. A contract that didnt provide 
for any increases to offset the effect of rising prices. And one which didnt provide any 
benefits for his wife in the event of his passing. So he was taking a significant risk given his 
circumstances.
On the other hand, his DB scheme provided for annual indexation. This was a risk-free 
adjustment to be borne by the Scheme. And it provided his wife with a spouses pension if 
he were to pass.
RFSs role was to discern what Mr Cs wants and needs were, and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to do these things 
because it had to act in his best interests. Even though it told Mr C that the transfer would be 
against its advice, I dont think its demonstrably met these obligations.
RFS was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr C about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It cant rely on the risk warnings 
provided in its letter covering its suitability report to escape responsibility for what happened 
to him.
While RFS acknowledged the transfer of his DB pension wasnt suitable, there were failings 
in the advice process which meant he wasnt fully informed about his position and I think its 
more likely than not the effect of fuller information, better analysis and an effective advice 
process wouldve been significant to his decision making.
On balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to conclude the 
process RFS followed meant Mr C can truly be regarded as an insistent client. Its 
communications werent clear or fair. It didnt act in his best interests. And it failed to act with 
due care and skill.
I think that if RFS had given Mr C appropriate fully formed advice, he wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the transfer of his deferred benefits.
It is also the case, given RFS knew about Mr Cs circumstances and that hed be eroding the 
value of his pension benefits if he transferred, it couldve decided against facilitating the 
transaction. But it decided to proceed.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mr Cs deferred benefits could sensibly be regarded 
as fair to him. As such I think RFS failed to meet the regulatory requirements placed on it 
when providing him with advice and making the arrangements.
I think its of note that Mr Cs interest in transferring his pension benefits seems to have been 
sparked by his former employer. It wasnt something he was thinking about until it introduced 
him to RFSs services.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against RFS and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. R&Quiem Financial Services Limited should pay Mr C the 
amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that R&Quiem Financial Services Limited pays Mr C the 
balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. RFS doesnt have to do what 
I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr C can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance-https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr C whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to come into effect. RMM informed 
us he didnt want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr C.
I consider Mr C wouldve remained in his DB scheme had he received fuller information, 
better guidance and effective advice. R&Quiem Financial Services Limited should therefore 
undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review methodology, as updated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.
Mr C has had the benefits of TFC and a stream of income from his annuity. These facts will 
need to be taken into account in the redress.
R&Quiem Financial Services Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and 
Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss would be tax- 
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date 
R&Quiem Financial Services Limited receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes RFS to pay Mr C.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If R&Quiem Financial Services Limited 
deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr C how much has been taken off. It 
should give Mr C a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect R&Quiem Financial Services Limited to carry out a 
calculation in line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. I now require R&Quiem 
Financial Services Limited to put matters right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman