DRN-4413534
Complaint
Miss S has complained about an overdraft National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
provided to her. 
She says the overdraft was irresponsibly provided as it was given to her at a time where she 
had no set income.
Background
NatWest provided Miss S with a student overdraft for £100 in February 2018 the limit was 
gradually increased until it reached £750 in June 2018 and then gradually increased to 
£2,000.00 during the course of July 2018. 
The overdraft was to be interest and fee free for at least the duration of Miss S studies 
provided she stayed within her limit. Once she completed her studies, in the first year no 
interest would be charged, in the second year, after completion, interest would not be 
charged on the first £1,000.00 of any overdrawn balance. And finally in the third year after 
Miss S completed her studies interest would start being charged on the entire balance.  
As I understand it, Miss S started her course in 2017 and was due to complete it in 2020. 
And interest started being added to her overdraft in November 2022. Miss S was unhappy 
when interest started being added and complained arguing that she shouldnt have been 
provided with her overdraft in the first place. As NatWests didnt agree to her complaint she 
referred the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss S and NatWest had told us. And he thought 
that NatWest hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss S unfairly. So he didnt 
recommend that Miss S complaint be upheld. Miss S disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss S complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Miss S complaint, Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss S 
could afford to repay before providing her with an overdraft and her limit increases. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
NatWest says it agreed to Miss S application after it carried out a credit search and obtained 
some information about her income and expenditure. On the other hand, Miss S says 
NatWest initially provided this overdraft and then the subsequent limit increases at a time 
when she had no income.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss S and NatWest have said. 
I know Miss S says that the overdraft was provided to her at a time where she had no set 
income. However, having looked at her statements, I can see that Miss S was in receipt of 
credits in the form of student support as well as funds from a part time job. So I dont think 
that it was a case of NatWest providing Miss S with an overdraft and then increasing it 
without the account receiving any credits.
Its also worth noting that Miss S didnt have to pay any interest or charges for some time 
provided that she kept within her overdraft limit. I think this is important context to keep in 
mind in this particular case. And in these circumstances, its difficult for me to agree that 
agreeing this overdraft was wholly unreasonable given it was interest free and therefore a far 
better alternative to any other alternative sources of credit Miss S is more likely than not 
have turned to. 
Furthermore, as the account continued to receive credits in line with the terms and 
conditions of the facility, I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to continue 
providing it. I appreciate that Miss S has said that it has become difficult for her to reduce the 
balance on the overdraft since NatWest started adding interest in November 2022 and she 
wants a repayment plan to help her do this. Im sorry to hear that Miss S is having difficulty 
repaying her overdraft.
However, I think its important to set out that NatWest hasnt refused to set up a repayment 
plan for her. On the contrary, it has said that this is something that it is prepared to discuss 
with Miss S and put in place provided she gets in touch with its financial difficulties referral 
team, which is able to consider this. I dont think that this is unreasonable given NatWest will 
need to establish how much Miss S is able to pay and for how long.
And while I appreciate that Miss S may be reluctant to discuss matters with NatWests 
financial difficulties team as this could result in adverse information being recorded with 
credit reference agencies, I would encourage her to cooperate with NatWest in order to 
reach a suitable agreement for repaying her facility. Id also remind NatWest that it is unlikely 
to be fair and reasonable for it to allow Miss S overdraft usage to continue in the way it is 
indefinitely bearing in mind all of its obligations. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that NatWest treated Miss S unfairly 
or unreasonably when providing her with an interest free overdraft or when directing her to 
its financial difficulties team. And Im therefore not upholding Miss S complaint. I appreciate 
this will be very disappointing for Miss S. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman