DRN-2614926
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited and their decision 
to decline her pet insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs M took out a pet insurance policy with Red Sands in 2017. Unfortunately, in April 2020, 
her pet was hit by car and due to the extent of the injuries Mrs Ms pet sustained, it was 
agreed they should be put down. In July 2020, Mrs M submitted a claim to Red Sands to 
cover the costs of the vets bills and to receive the Death of Pet payment.
But Red Sands declined the claim. They explained the circumstances of the accident 
breached their general conditions as Mrs Ms pet hadnt been on a lead in secured grounds 
when the accident occurred. Because of this, they wouldnt cover the vet costs or pay the 
Death of Pet amount. Mrs M wasnt happy with this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs M explained that, although her pet wasnt on a lead at the time of the accident, she felt 
they were kept in secure grounds. She explained the road leading up to her property wasnt 
used regularly. She explained the accident involved her father, who lived in a property 
further down the track and had been driving up to see them. She didnt think it was fair to say 
the grounds werent secure when the track was only used to drive to their property. So, she 
didnt think it was fair for Red Sands to decline the claim.
Red Sands didnt agree. They reviewed images provided by Mrs M, but they didnt think they 
showed the grounds were secure. They recognised the distressing situation Mrs M found 
herself in, and that the circumstances leading to her pets death were accidental. But they 
maintained their view that Mrs M had breached the conditions of the policy as her pet wasnt 
on a lead or in secure grounds at the time of the accident. They felt if the pet had of been, 
the accident wouldnt have occurred. So, they thought their decision to decline the claim was 
fair. Mrs M remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She also recognised the 
upset Mrs M wouldve experienced following the death of her pet. But she thought Red 
Sands had acted reasonably when declining the claim. She explained she reviewed the 
images seen by Red Sands and Mrs Ms version of events. And after doing so, she didnt 
think she could say the grounds were secure. And as her pet wasnt on a lead at the time, 
she thought Red Sands had declined the claim fairly, referring to the general conditions of 
the policy. So, she didnt think Red Sands needed to do anything more.
Mrs M didnt agree, and she maintained her view that the grounds were secure as the track 
where the accident occurred was private land. As Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this complaint has caused Mrs M. I understand the claim 
shes made has arisen from a very difficult situation following the death of her pet. And I can 
appreciate how Red Sands decision to decline the claim wouldve made a difficult situation 
even more upsetting. But for me to say Red Sands have done something wrong, Id need to 
see that their decision to decline failed to follow the terms and conditions of the policy Mrs M 
held. Or if it did, Id need to be satisfied that their decision to do so remained unfair. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Red Sands declined the claim as they felt the situation leading to the accident failed to meet 
the general conditions of the policy.
Ive seen the policy explains under General Conditions that You must ensure your pet 
cannot escape or stray from your property and any area in which a dog is kept must be 
secure and appropriately fenced or otherwise secured and all reasonable steps must be 
taken to prevent escape.  When loading your pet into or out of your vehicle, you must ensure 
that the area is either secure or your pet is on a lead.
Red Sands have explained that, as Mrs Ms pet was hit by a vehicle on a track outside of 
their property when it wasnt on a lead, they feel Mrs M didnt comply with the conditions of 
the policy.
The policy goes on to explain under General Exclusions that Red Sands will not be liable 
under this policy unless you have complied with all the terms, conditions and endorsements 
of this policy. So, Red Sands feel theyve acted fairly when declining the claim. Theyve 
explained that eligibility for the Death of Pet payment is subject to meeting the same 
conditions.
But Mrs M doesnt agree. Shes explained the track outside their property is on private land 
and isnt used as a commuting road for other vehicles. So, she doesnt think its fair for Red 
Sands to rely on this term. So, Ive considered whether Red Sands acted fairly when doing 
so.
Its not in dispute that Mrs Ms pet wasnt on a lead at the time of the accident. And Mrs M 
has confirmed her pet was hit by a car on the track leading to their property after her pet shot 
out unexpectedly. Mrs Ms main point of dispute is the track, and the fact its situated on 
private land.
Ive seen the photos Mrs M provided to support her view. It shows the entrance to her 
property. And from what I can see, I dont think it is secured. It leaves an open entrance to 
the track directly outside it. While I can appreciate the track itself is on private land, I dont 
think Red Sands have acted unreasonably when determining the track itself to be outside of 
Mrs Ms property borders. Mrs M has confirmed this track is used for vehicles to access her 
property. So, while I agree it isnt a busy commuting road, I think Mrs M was aware there 
was the potential for vehicles to be using it when her pet was outside. 
As Mrs Ms pet wasnt on a lead, the terms and conditions explain her property would need 
to be secure to prevent an escape. And I dont think they were. These conditions are designed to mitigate the risk of an accident occurring. By not following these conditions, I 
think Mrs M failed to mitigate the circumstances of the accident. So, I think Red Sands acted 
within the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the claim. 
And I think its fair for Red Sands to assume that if the grounds of the property had been 
secure, or if Mrs Ms pet was on a lead at the time of the accident, the accident would most 
likely not have occurred. Because of this, I cant say theyve applied the conditions of the 
policy unfairly. So, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs M was hoping for. And I want to make it clear that I 
dont think Mrs M purposefully failed to meet the conditions of the policy. Ive no doubt Mrs M 
assumed her pet would be safe in the grounds of her property at the time and that a lead 
wasnt necessary considering her family were also outside at the time. But Red Sands have 
a responsibility to assess each claim they receive against the terms of the policy and the 
accident circumstances. And I think theyve done so fairly on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman