DRN-3011864
The complaint
Ms S has complained about how Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with her requests to make faster 
payments from her current account.
What happened
Towards the end of 2020, Ms S wanted to make two payments from her Lloyds account to 
accounts she held at other institutions  which Ill call B and F.  The payments she 
wanted to make were too large for her to make using her online faster payment facility.  So 
she visited her local Lloyds branch for them to set up the payments.
Ms S provided details of the payees to Lloyds counter staff.  But, before theyd process the 
payments, Lloyds insisted that Ms S go with their staff to a side room.  Once there, staff 
spoke to Ms S about the possibility of these being fraudulent payments and required her to 
watch a video about fraud prevention  even though Ms S knew what she was doing and 
was satisfied the transfers were genuine.
Once Ms S had completed this, Lloyds set up the payments.  But they made errors in both 
instructions.  The payment to B reached its intended recipient, notwithstanding Lloyds error.  
But F didnt have the information it needed to allocate the funds received.  So the payment 
was returned to Lloyds.  
Ms S was worried when she found out about this, because F had given her a limited period 
in which to make her deposit.  To make sure she didnt lose the opportunity to invest with F, 
Ms S made several smaller deposits  which she had to spread over a number of days 
because of Lloyds faster payment limit.
Ms S complained to Lloyds about what had happened with the two payments.  She said the 
delays in paying F had cost her interest, as F wouldnt pay interest until the full deposit was 
made.  She also raised concerns about an earlier faster payment and about Lloyds 
processes and complaints procedure.
Lloyds considered Ms Ss complaint and rejected it.  They said that Ms S had provided a 
piece of paper with the details for the payments to F and B.  They said that, in the case of F, 
there was no reference number and the member of staff setting the payment up said Ms S 
had confirmed what information to include.  They said they werent responsible for F not 
being able to allocate the payment to Ms Ss account with F.  Nor were they responsible for 
the delay in F returning the funds or any loss of interest Ms S had suffered.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered the matter and concluded there were some issues we couldnt help 
her with.  They explained to Ms S that we cant make findings about Lloyds processes and 
procedures.  And they noted that, although Ms S had raised concerns about an earlier faster 
payment, that had been made correctly  so thered been no adverse impact on Ms S for us 
to consider.
The investigator said that, although the payment to B hadnt been set up correctly, it had 
been accepted by B  so thered been no detriment to Ms S there, although they did 
acknowledge it contributed to her overall dissatisfaction with Lloyds.  But they said Lloyds 
were responsible for the error in the payment to F, as they were satisfied that the information 
provided by Ms S showed the correct reference  which wasnt included.
Our investigator thought that Lloyds should pay Ms S £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset shed been caused by their error.  And they said Lloyds should reimburse Ms S four 
days interest she lost out on.
Lloyds accepted the investigators view.  Ms S thought that £150 was too little to 
compensate her for the trouble and upset shed suffered.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Ms Ss complaint.  But Im not directing Lloyds to pay any 
more than our investigator thought was fair.  Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained, we cant investigate Lloyds complaints handling.  And, 
although Ms S complained about the handling of an earlier faster payment, Im satisfied that 
was made without any adverse impact on her.  So Im not going to refer to those matters and 
further.
Nor can we examine a businesss processes  except to see if they were followed and, if 
they werent, whether that negatively impacted on a customer.  In this case, Ms S had 
complained that Lloyds refused to make the transfers she wanted with forcing her to discuss 
potential fraud issues with a member of staff and view a video on the subject.
I understand Ms S was confident the payments she wanted to make werent fraudulent.  But 
they were large.  And, in the case of F, were being made to a new recipient.  In those 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds staff to take the precautions set out in 
their procedures to check the payments were genuine.
I appreciate Ms Ss position that £150 is insufficient compensation for the stress and worry 
her dealings with Lloyds over the two payments.  Ive thought about this.  Its clear from what 
Ive seen that she was upset by many aspects of her dealings with Lloyds.  But I can only 
say that Lloyds should compensate her if they did something wrong  and that error 
impacted on her.
So, while its true Lloyds made an error in setting up the payment to B, this was credited to 
Ms Ss account with B just as it would have been had no error been made.  So the error had 
no impact on her.  And Ive not included it in my assessment of compensation.
But it is clear Ms S was affected by the error Lloyds made in setting up the payment to F.  
Ive seen the document she took with her to the branch.  This gives a reference number to 
include in the payment instruction.  So Im satisfied that not including the reference was an 
error on Lloyds part.  
Because Lloyds didnt do that, Ms S was worried about what had happened to a large 
amount of her money.  Im satisfied she should be compensated for that.  And Ive taken into 
account how long she suffered that worry for.Ms S has provided us with copies of her exchanges with F.  I can see she contacted them on 
the same day the incorrect transfer was made.  F replied the next day.  They confirmed 
theyd received her money  and had returned it to Lloyds.  And they confirmed she still had 
time to make the deposit into her new investment.
So Im satisfied Ms S knew within a day that her money was safe and that she could still 
make her investment.  I think £150 is a fair amount of compensation for a concern which 
continued for that long.  So Im not deciding that Lloyds should pay Ms S any more than that 
 and a sum equivalent to the interest she lost by not being able to make her full deposit 
immediately the money was returned.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ss complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC and 
directing them to pay her:
A sum equivalent to four days interest on £84,158 at the rate of 1% per annum;
£150 for the trouble and upset their error caused her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman