DRN-4112468
The complaint
Mr S complains that Jigsaw Insurance Services Plcs mis-sold him pet insurance. 
What happened
Mr S had a pet insurance policy sold to him by Jigsaw and underwritten by an insurer, to 
cover his pet dog.
The policy was first taken out in September 2012 and had been renewed every year since 
then up to the last renewal in September 2021.
Mr S tells us that sadly his dog had been diagnosed with a terminal illness before September 
2021. This meant there would be no further surgery or curative treatment. Essentially, any 
further veterinary payments would be for insulin, syringes and pain medication only.
At renewal, monthly premiums for 2021/2 were set to be £234.33. Mr S tells us he had to 
make a calculation about whether it was worth him paying those premiums given the limited 
treatment his dog would receive during the end stage of its life.
Mr S called Jigsaw to discuss the renewal. During that conversation he was told that a death 
benefit of up to £1,000 would be payable when his dog died, if he renewed the policy. And, 
on that basis, Mr S renewed his policy.
Mr S paid the monthly premiums through to May 2022, when very sadly his dog passed 
away. During the period between renewal in September 2021 and May 2022, Mr S had 
made several claims under the policy for the on-going treatment and medication his dog 
received.
When Mr S asked for the death benefit to be paid, it was pointed out to him that in fact his 
dog didnt qualify for the benefit because of its age.
Mr S complained to Jigsaw. He was unhappy hed taken out a policy costing £234.33 per 
month and had received considerably less than that back in claims payments, the amount of 
which had been reasonably predictable before he renewed the policy.
Jigsaw accepted that Mr S had been told, during the telephone conversation prior to 
renewal, that he would receive the death benefit when his dog died. They apologised for that 
but didnt propose to refund any part of Mr Ss premiums or pay compensation for misleading 
him in that way.
Mr S wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and thought Jigsaw hadnt been fair to Mr S. 
She said they should repay Mr Ss premiums less the amount already paid out against the 
claims Mr S had made. And she thought Jigsaw should also pay Mr S £100 in compensation 
for the trouble and upset their error had caused him.
Jigsaw disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jigsaw have pointed out that Mr S renewed his policy annually between 2012 and 2021. At 
the outset, when he first bought the policy, and every year since then, hed been sent policy 
documents which were clear that the death benefit applied only for dogs under a certain age.
Jigsaw admitted that Mr S had been misled during the telephone conversation prior to 
renewal in 2021, but essentially argued that Mr S ought to have known that the death benefit 
wouldnt be payable in his dogs case.
It appears Mr S did, as Jigsaw suggested, receive policy documents each year which 
outlined the benefits in full - and set out the restrictions on them. And if Mr S had renewed 
his policy without giving any further thought to the matter, mistakenly believing the death 
benefit applied, then I wouldnt be upholding this complaint.
However, Mr S rang Jigsaw to check what the benefits of the policy were. And he did that 
quite explicitly because he was in a dilemma about whether to renew given the cost of the 
premiums versus the value of the likely claims. The claims value was, as Ive already said, 
almost entirely predictable.
Mr S was told the death benefit would apply  no-one disputes that. And so, he factored that 
into his calculations about whether to renew the policy. It seems to me that given the 
(entirely predictable) costs of the on-going treatment and medication, Mr S would have had 
to be innumerate to even consider renewing the policy unless he thought the death benefit 
would apply.
So, in summary, everyone agrees Mr S was misled. Im satisfied that affected his decision to 
renew  he wouldnt have renewed unless he was assured the death benefit applied. And 
so, Jigsaws error caused Mr S to renew a policy which was never going to be economically 
worthwhile for him. 
And so the only fair thing to do is to require Jigsaw to put Mr S back in the position hed have 
been in if he hadnt received that completely misleading information during the phone call 
prior to renewal.    
Putting things right
In short, Im going to require Jigsaw to refund all of the premiums Mr S paid after the renewal 
in September 2021, less the value of the claims payments they made to him. In effect, 
making it as if Mr S hadnt renewed the policy at all in September 2021.
Thats what our investigator intended to ask Jigsaw to do in her view. However, Jigsaw had 
at that point provided some misleading information about the value of the claims Mr S had 
made that had already been paid.
They originally said theyd paid out on claims to the value of £1,310.30 in total (over eight 
claims). 
When we went back to check that more recently - because that amount didnt seem to tally 
with the copies of the claims forms wed been sent  Jigsaw said theyd actually paid out 
£638.02 to Mr S during the policy year (over six claims). The earlier, higher figure had included excesses - which obviously werent paid to Mr S  
and indeed included two claims where no payment was made because the amount claimed 
wasnt higher than the excess.
Im grateful to Jigsaw for finally clarifying how much money Mr S has actually been paid 
under his policy from renewal in September 2021 up to May 2022.
In order to put him back in the position he would have been in had he not been misled, 
Jigsaw need to now pay Mr S £1,334.19. 
Thats nine months premiums at £234.33 per month (£2,108.97), less a refund for part of 
May 2022 which I understand Jigsaw or the insurer have already paid Mr S (£136.76), less 
the £638.02 Mr S has received from the claims hes made in the policy year.
Im also going to require Jigsaw to pay Mr S £100 in compensation for his trouble and upset, 
as suggested by our investigator. Mr S has been inconvenienced by this course of events. 
And his legitimate expectations  after speaking to Jigsaw before he renewed  have been 
disappointed, at what was already an upsetting time for Mr S. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Jigsaw Insurance Services Plc must pay Mr S £1,334.19 in returned premiums plus £100 for 
his trouble and upset.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman