DRN-2906554
The complaint
Miss P complains about Bank of Scotland plcs, trading as Halifax, decision not to uphold a
claim she made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section
75 claim or a chargeback. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in
certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim
against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Miss P made a claim through them for
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Chargeback
I dont think Halifax were unreasonable when they didnt raise a chargeback request. They
are decided on the rules of the card scheme provider and Halifax didnt believe there was a
reasonable prospect of success on the basis of a claim the tour wasnt completed.
section 75  
Miss P says there has been a breach of contract because the ground services she paid
£2294.49 for were inadequate.
Miss P has explained that at times she felt in danger or that the guide was rude. Whilst I
understand her testimony on those issues I think complaints of that nature are best made to
the tour company and cant fairly be considered against Halifax as they dont relate to a
breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Ive therefore considered the service Miss P was promised against the service that was
provided. I accept that the contract allows the business to make amendments to the itinerary
and there will obviously be occasions when that may be necessary i.e. when venues are
unexpectedly closed. But I think its fair to say those amendments should be of reasonably
equal merit.
The tour agreement explains that the following services are to be provided:
Minibus for transfers for the airport and 4WD Land Cruiser for surface drive routes
Domestic flight tickets for certain sectors
Hotel in bed and breakfast and full board at some of the lodges
Entrance fee to the churches, monasteries and national parks
Boat on named lakes
English speaking guide for the whole tour
Bottled water during the driving trip
Government Tax
Ive considered each day of the itinerary on the basis that ground services cost Miss P about
£128 per day (£2,294.49/18 days and rounded up).
Id agree with the investigator that the business did not meet its contractual obligations on:
Day 2 of the itinerary  roads were closed in the afternoon, and Miss P was therefore unable
to complete her itinerary. No alternative was provided. I think half of the day should be
refunded.
Day 4 of the itinerary  there was no 4 WD car available for a journey through the Highlands
and a walking safari around the lodge wasnt a suitable alternative. I think the day should be
refunded.
Day 11 of the itinerary  the afternoon excursion was cancelled, and no car or alternative
provided, although the morning itinerary was completed. I think a refund of half a day or £64
is appropriate.
Ive considered the other days of the itinerary. The investigator set out that itinerary in
considerable detail and Ill not repeat those details here as I think its reasonable to suggest
the investigators view can be considered in tandem with my findings.
I dont think there is evidence of either a breach of contract or misrepresentation in the
details Ive seen of the service Miss P received during those additional days. I say that
because:
Day 3 Miss P was able to visit the ceremony that was listed in the itinerary.
Day 5 whilst the guides may not have been to the standard Miss P had hoped for I
dont think it would be fair to suggest this represented either a breach ofcontract or a misrepresentation. The itinerary promised was completed. Day 6 
the contract allowed the business to make amendments and I think in the
exceptional circumstances that the 4 WD car had broken down, it was
reasonable for them to provide a minibus as a replacement.
Day 7 whilst I understand Miss P wasnt happy with the quality of the vehicle
provided or the tour guide I dont think it was reasonable to suggest this was a
breach of contract.
Day 8 it seems that the itinerary that was promised was delivered.
Day 9 I dont think there is evidence there was an agreement that Miss P would be
escorted on the steep climbs she faced, and I dont therefore think it would be
fair to suggest there has been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Day 10 & days 12-18 incl
it seems that the itinerary that was promised was delivered. I understand that
Miss P was on occasion unhappy with the driver and tour guide and the pace
of the trip, but I dont think this can fairly be assessed as a breach of contract
that Halifax should consider.
I think there are elements of the itinerary that were either not provided or were not replaced
with reasonable alternative arrangements. So, I think there has been a breach of contract
here and that Halifax should provide a refund for the days, or part days, where the itinerary
expected was not met.
Miss P has explained that simply visiting the places on the itinerary is not enough and I
understand her view that she would rely on the professionalism of the guides provided.
Shes clearly not had an enjoyable experience on her travels, and I was very sorry to hear
about that. I understand that this would have been a special holiday and she would have had
high expectations. Ive also considered the court decisions she directed us to but overall I
think the assessment of Halifaxs accountability that Ive set out above is a fair one.
Putting things right
Halifax should provide a pro rata refund for half of day 2 and day 11 and all of day 4 of the
itinerary. I calculate that refund as £256.
I note that Halifax offered £75 compensation for delays in handling Miss Ps complaint and I 
think that was fair in the circumstances.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Bank of Scotland plc
to:
refund £256 to Miss P in respect of the itinerary she was expecting but didnt receive;
If this refund results in a credit balance on her credit card account, Halifax should pay
Miss P interest on that amount at a rate of 8% simple per annum, from the date that
the credit balance arose to the date of settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman