DRN-2770289
The complaint
Mr R complains about the poor repair and service he received from AmTrust Europe Limited 
(AmTrust) following a claim under his home insurance policy. 
  
What happened
Mr R made a claim after finding that his radiator was leaking. AmTrust sent an engineer who 
Mr R said carried out a poor repair and didnt wear protective equipment. Mr R said that he 
had to get an independent engineer to repair the radiator at a cost of £100. 
Mr R complained to AmTrust. In its final response, it said that under the terms of the policy, 
its engineer carried out a temporary repair. As to its engineer not wearing protective 
equipment, it couldnt confirm whether this was the case or not. But accepted what Mr R had 
said about this and apologised. 
Mr R remained unhappy by this outcome and referred a complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and partially upheld it. She said that AmTrust were 
fair to rely on the terms and conditions of the policy which allowed for a temporary not 
permanent repair. As the engineer had stopped the leak and isolated the radiator, he had 
repaired the initial emergency. So, there was nothing further she could ask AmTrust to do 
regarding this. 
Our investigator accepted Mr Rs account of the engineer not wearing protective equipment. 
She recommended that AmTrust pay Mr R £50 for the distress and inconvenience this 
caused, given Mr Rs vulnerabilities. 
AmTrust accepted her findings.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator. He said that the engineer had left his property far 
worse as the radiator was still leaking. He said that the independent engineer that he used, 
told him that no temporary repair was carried out and he sought reimbursement of the 
independent engineers fees of £100. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr R as the outcome might not be what 
he wouldve wanted, Ive decided to partially uphold his complaint and Ill explain why. 
The main issues here are:
Whether the engineer had carried out a poor repair. 
Whether AmTrust should reimburse Mr R engineers fee of £100. 
Mr R had a home insurance policy which included home emergency cover. When Mr R 
discovered his radiator was leaking, he contacted AmTrust to make a claim. Both parties 
accept that the leaking radiator constituted a home emergency and AmTrust accepted the 
claim. 
Mr R said the engineer carried out a poor repair as he didnt fix the radiator as he wrapped 
tape around it leaving it still leaking. This caused further damage to his property.
 
I have reviewed the claim notes as this provides details of what work the engineer 
undertook. The notes (which are the only expert evidence I have) specified that the engineer 
isolated the radiator and stopped the leak. Ive had a look at the terms and conditions of the 
policy to see what AmTrusts obligations to Mr R were.  
It seems that the following term allowed AmTrust to resolve the immediate emergency (such 
as isolating the radiator) which was covered, but not to carry out a permanent repair, which 
wasnt covered by the policy:
You are not covered for any claim:-
relating to the cost of making permanent repairs:
i) once the emergency situation has been resolved including any
redecoration or making good the fabric of the Home.
Mr R was asked whether he had any expert evidence such as a report from the independent 
engineer he used, that could support his view that the engineer had carried out a poor repair. 
No written report was provided but Mr R said that his engineer confirmed the state of the 
radiator that he had to rectify. Apart from this, no other information was given.
Consequently, the only expert evidence Ive read from AmTrusts engineer, shows that he 
isolated the radiator, stopped the leak and left the radiator disconnected. In the absence of 
any other expert report to the contrary, I think the engineer completed a temporary repair 
and AmTrust relied on the terms of the policy, which was fair. So, I cant reasonably ask 
AmTrust to reimburse Mr Rs engineers charge of £100, as any permanent repair costs are 
the responsibility of the policyholder. 
Mr R also complained that the engineer failed to wear protective equipment. AmTrust has 
confirmed that it advised all its engineers to wear protective equipment when attending its 
customers. It could not deny or confirmed whether this engineer wore any protective 
equipment and accepted Mr Rs testimony that the engineer didnt. For this, it apologised.
I think that Mr R wouldve suffered a level of distress given the engineer wasnt wearing 
protective equipment. Especially, due to his vulnerabilities and the government guidelines at 
the time. So, I think that its fair for AmTrust to acknowledge the level of distress caused, by 
paying £50 compensation. 
Putting things right
Taking all of this into account, AmTrust has been fair and reasonable in relying on the terms 
and conditions of the policy by carrying out a temporary repair. But as it accepted that its 
engineer failed to wear protective equipment, it should pay £50 to Mr R, for the distress this 
caused.  
 My final decision
I partially uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
I direct AmTrust Europe Limited pay £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman