DRN-4300529
The complaint
Mr S complaint is about the way Crowdcube Capital Limited presented an investment 
opportunity on its crowdfunding platform. He feels information about the company he 
invested in was inaccurate and Crowdcube should have checked this
What happened
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment 
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about a business 
and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before deciding whether to 
invest. In return for their investment they receive shares in the business. 
Mr S made an investment in a brewery (Company A) via Crowdcubes crowdfunding platform 
in 2017. Mr S says that one of the main reasons for investing in Company A was that it isaid 
it was going to use his investment to open a new state of the art brewing facility and taproom 
site, which he intended to visit. 
Mr S invested £500 during this fundraising round and as Company A surpassed
its initial target of £1,000,000, the round successfully closed with Company A raising
approximately £1.8 million. However, Company A subsequently entered administration in
December 2022.
Mr S raised a complaint with Crowdcube in December 2022 as he felt Company A didnt use 
the raised funds to build the new brewing facility and taproom site as promised in the 
Crowdcubes promotion. He said that Crowdcube failed to conduct properly due dillgence on 
this point and that there was conflict of interest at play as Crowdcube's chief operating officer 
was on the board of Company A. 
Crowdcube considered Mr S complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, it said:
Appropriate due diligence was conducted when verifying the investment opportunity 
in Company A and it was satisfied the pitch was clear, fair and not misleading.
Mr S was provided with risk warnings of the high-risk nature of the investment.
The administrators of Company A were contacted to obtain information about 
Company As administration, after which Crowdcube communicated to investors on 
22 December 2022.
Potential conflicts of interest are managed by ensuring any person connected with a 
company has no involvement in decision making and is completely segregated from 
the engagement.
Crowdcubes chief operating officers involvement with Company A was disclosed in 
the pitch and circulated in the cooling off email sent to investors.
Mr S didnt accept Crowdcubes findings and so he referred his complaint to this service for 
an independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr S complaint but didnt think Crowdcube had done 
anything wrong. In short, they said:
They were satisfied that the information within the pitch was fair, clear and not 
misleading and that Crowdcube acted in Mr S best interests by approving the 
promotion and allowing him to invest in Company A.
Crowdcube provided our service with the due diligence checks it conducted and they 
were satisfied that they had checked the plans to build the brewing facility and 
taproom were plausible.
Mr S was made aware of Crowdcubes chief operation officers involvement with 
Company A before investing and so they didnt think this impacted his decision to 
invest. 
As Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised 
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are 
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The 
most relevant principles here are: 
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading. 
So before approving Company As pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the 
information contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be 
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing Mr S to invest in Company A, it would 
continue to be acting in his best interests. 
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions 
made in the pitch, Crowdcube would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these 
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something 
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the 
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of 
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved. Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on 
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms: 
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its 
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests 
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on 
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based. 
The FCA also said that: 
In relation to statements about future commercial success, this should include at 
least a basic plausibility check. For example, if a borrower says it is going to build a 
block of flats within 6 months but it does not have the relevant construction 
permissions, it would seem reasonable for a platform to question the plausibility of 
the project. 
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November 
2019 which explained that firms should: 
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion 
before approving its content for communication by an unauthorised person. The 
extent and substance of the analysis and diligence needed to be able confirm that a 
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case and will 
depend on the form and content of the promotion. When assessing whether a 
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading, a firm may need to consider (among other 
things): 
 The authenticity of the proposition described in the relevant promotion. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr S had invested prior to the publication of these consultation papers 
and guidance, I still feel they are relevant as they provide clarity as to the interpretation and 
application of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at the 
time. 
The FCAs website provides consumers with useful information on crowdfunding. This 
includes a section on how consumers should protect themselves before investing and says 
they should first understand what due diligence a platform preforms on investee companies. 
Looking at Crowdcubes website, it makes it clear what due diligence it performs in its due 
diligence charter. It explains: 
The following due diligence is carried on each company before the pitch is open to 
investment: [] to fact check all statements and claims made in the pitch text to 
ensure it is fair, clear and not misleading by obtaining, where possible, independent 
evidence. 
Taking into account the above, its clear that Crowdcubes due diligence needed to be 
sufficient to satisfy itself on the essential information on which the promotion of Company A 
was based. Crowdcube also needed to check that the claims made in the pitch were 
authentic by way of a basic plausibility test. Further, Crowdcube needed to make Mr S aware 
of the extent of which it performed due diligence on Company A, let him know the outcome 
of this and for it to be sufficiently detailed to allow him to weigh up the risks and benefits of 
investing in Company A. 
The crux of Mr S complaint is that Company A didnt use the funds raised in the way in 
which Crowdcube promoted it would. The pitch for the investment opportunity in Company A 
said:Our Plan:
1. Build a new, state of the art brewery
2. Develop our current brewery, to enable us to lead the barrel ageing and wild beer
category in the UK
3. Develop our growing bar and restaurant business
Its clear from the above that Company As plans were not only to build a new brewery but 
also to develop its current one, as well as to develop its overall business. 
The financials section of the pitch said the following about the use of funds:
We plan to use the funds to secure the land which we estimate will cost around 
£1.5MM and be paid in 2 instalments.
The remaining costs are estimated to be £7.8MM and will cover building, fitting out 
and contingency costs over the expected 24-month project. 
We intend to finance this with £6MM of combined mortgage and asset financing as 
well as operating cash flow from the combined brewery and bars business.
Crowdcube has provided clarity around the due diligence it performed in regard to the above 
statements. It says it received sufficient information from Company A to satisfy itself that 
Company A would primarily use the funds for the new brewery. As part of its checks, 
Crowdcube received a confirmation that the land for the new brewery was expected to be 
purchased for £1.5 million and payable in two instalments. It also considered Company As 
financial statements and credit standing which demonstrated that its plans were plausible. I 
can confirm Ive seen this information and I have no concerns that Crowdcube didnt 
undertake relevant checks here. I appreciate Mr S is disappointed that the brewery didnt get 
built as planned, but I dont think Crowdcube is responsible for this. 
Crowdcube made it sufficiently clear that further funds were required for the project and that 
Company A intended to finance this via a mortgage and asset financing, it didnt currently 
have the funds. Therefore, Mr S ought to have known that the building of the new brewery 
wasnt guaranteed and he should have only proceeded with his investment if he was happy 
to invest on this basis. 
Turning to Mr S concerns about one of Crowdcubes directors being on Company As board 
and this being a potential conflict of interest. Having assessed the information provided, I 
note from the Team section of the pitch that the director was listed as a non-executive 
director Company A. And within the explanatory note provided to investors, it was disclosed 
that the director was involved in advising Company A. Furthermore, it was disclosed that the 
director was the chief operating officer of Crowdcube. Therefore, whilst Ive not seen 
anything to suggest a conflict of interest led to Mr S loss, Im satisfied Crowdcube disclosed 
any potential conflict of interest here. And so, Mr S should have only proceeded to invest if 
he was happy to do so knowing this connection existed. 
So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied the information Crowdcube gave Mr S 
was clear, fair and not misleading. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman