DRN-1664687
complaint
Mr W complains that MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr W took out a credit card with MBNA in 2001. At the same time, he bought a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover his repayments for up to 12 months at a time if he couldnt 
work. 
Mr W says he didnt agree to take the PPI and he didnt need it.
The adjudicator thought that Mr Ws complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr W disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive come to this decision.
Mr W selected the PPI when he completed a postal application for a credit card. The 
application form made it clear that he had a choice about it. He chose to take it by placing a 
tick in a box and he signed the form. He could have ticked a different box to say he didnt 
want it.
Im satisfied Mr W bought the PPI knowing he had a choice about it, even though  
understandably  he doesnt remember this now, many years later.
MBNA didnt give Mr W a personal recommendation to buy the PPI, but it still had to make 
sure it gave him enough information so he could make an informed decision about whether 
he took it. It seems likely that MBNA didnt give Mr W enough information at the time of sale. 
For example, there was no information about how much the policy would cost, or any of the 
exclusions. 
But this doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Mr Ws complaint. I have to consider 
whether Mr W wouldve acted differently and not bought the policy if hed had all the 
information he needed. Looking at Mr Ws circumstances at the time I dont think Mr W 
wouldve acted differently. 
Mr W was eligible for the cover and doesnt seem to have been affected by any terms which 
mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim  such as those related to 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances.I think Mr W wouldve at least understood that the PPI would help cover his repayments if he 
couldnt work. Mr W chose to take the cover, so I think he considered that he had some need 
for it. Mr W was only entitled to statutory sick pay and he hadnt been working for his 
employer for very long, so I dont think hed have been entitled to any redundancy pay. Mr W 
didnt have any savings he might have had which he could have used to meet his expenses 
if he wasnt working, so it looks like he did have a need for the policy. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that it was unaffordable for him at the time.
So I dont think Mr W lost out because of anything MBNA did wrong. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint so it follows that MBNA Limited doesnt have to pay any 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman