DRN-4367548
The complaint
Mr G complains about poor service from British Gas Insurance Limited, in connection with 
his HomeCare insurance cover.
Reference to British Gas includes any actions of its appointed agents. 
What happened
To summarise, in September 2022, Mr G called British Gas for assistance. An engineer 
attended and Mr G says he explained there was a problem with the boiler starting up. His 
boiler was not recognising the signal to start from the controller.  
Over the next five weeks, several different engineers attended on at least ten occasions, as 
the problem with Mr Gs boiler continued. Mr G reports that the engineers often didnt appear 
to know how to resolve the issue. Various solutions were tried, but the problem continued. 
This meant that Mr G had to go to his garage every morning, and some evenings, to 
manually override the system and start the boiler, on one occasion being left without hot 
water for several days.  
The problem was resolved after Mr G asked British Gas to escalate matters to a more senior 
engineer, as he and his wife were vulnerable, elderly customers who were experiencing 
significant distress and inconvenience as a consequence of the failure to resolve the issue. 
In response to a complaint from Mr G, British Gas offered £70 compensation in recognition 
of the inconvenience of multiple visits. Mr G didnt accept this, instead coming to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. British Gas offered to increase its compensation to £200, 
acknowledging the impact on Mr G and his wife due to their age and vulnerability. 
Our investigator initially thought this was a fair offer. But Mr G did not and made further 
submissions, on the strength of which our investigator proposed compensation of £350. 
 
Neither party accepted our investigators view. Mr G thinks £700 is an appropriate figure.  
British Gas maintains that £200 fully recognises the impact of the time taken to resolve 
matters. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
For clarity, my decision focuses on Mr Gs complaint about poor service from British Gas in 
resolving the problem he was having with his boiler. Im aware Mr G is also unhappy about 
how British Gas responded to his complaint. I appreciate Mr Gs frustration, but as our 
investigator has already explained, this isnt an activity Im able to look at under our rules. So 
I wont be commenting on this aspect of Mr Gs complaint any further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im going to disappoint both parties. Im upholding this complaint 
and will require British Gas to pay Mr G £350 compensation for poor service. 
A summary of my reasons is given below, focusing on the key points and evidence I 
consider material to my decision. So, if Ive not referred to something in particular, its not 
because I havent thought about it. Rather, I dont consider it changes the outcome of the 
complaint. 
British Gas attended Mr Gs property on multiple occasions over a five-week period. I 
accept that the engineers tried to identify the most likely cause of the problem and 
remedy the situation. But the problem persisted. 
So I think it wouldve been reasonable for British Gas to escalate matters at an earlier 
stage, as it appears the problem was rectified promptly, once this happened at Mr 
Gs request.
It would be inconvenient for anyone to have to start their boiler by going out to their 
garage and manually resetting the system, especially when the weather was turning 
colder and wetter. But Mr G is an elderly man and, as well as his increasing 
frustration at the repeated failures of the engineers solutions, Mr G was worried and 
upset about the impact on his wife, who is also elderly and has a number of health 
issues. 
I acknowledge that British Gas has accepted Mr and Mrs G are vulnerable 
customers. And that this would have impacted on their experience of being without a 
fully functioning boiler for several weeks. 
Mr and Mrs G had the inconvenience of repeatedly trying to sort things out, the 
disruption of recurrent engineers visits, and mounting disappointment and stress 
when those visits proved not to have resolved matters. 
In all the circumstances, I think £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience is a fair 
resolution to this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right British Gas should pay Mr G £350 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Insurance Limited to 
put things right as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman