DRN-3777824
The complaint
Mr W complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling of his home emergency 
insurance claim.
References to British Gas include its agents.
What happened
In April 2022, Mr W made a claim under his home emergency policy with British Gas 
because there was a fault with his boiler. Around a week later an engineer attended his 
property and told Mr W that a part needed to be ordered before it could be fixed. Mr W was 
then told the part was out of stock.
Around four weeks later, Mr W made arrangements for the boiler to be fixed himself. British 
Gas agreed to settle the claim on receipt of the invoice. Mr W was unhappy that British Gas 
only paid him £80, when the invoice he provided was for £140. British Gas says this was due 
to a £60 excess.
Mr W complained to British Gas. He didnt think it was fair for it to have deducted the excess 
when hed had to arrange the repairs himself. He also felt he should be reimbursed £150 for 
an increase in gas usage as a result of the fault.
British Gas offered Mr W £40 for inconvenience caused by the delay, but he didnt think this 
was enough to put things right. So, he asked our service to consider his complaint.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws concerns, but he thought British Gas had acted 
reasonably. Mr W disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said his boiler was on 
constantly for 30 days and he couldnt turn it off because his daughter was in the house. He 
also commented that British Gas hadnt mentioned the excess being deducted. So, his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
British Gas has referred to its terms and conditions which say:
Reasonable timescales
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible  in which case well let you know as 
soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
Mr W says he had to wait around a week for the engineer to visit the property. Reasonable 
isnt defined in the terms of the policy. However, the fault with the boiler didnt mean that    
Mr W was without hot water or heating. So, Im not persuaded that the time it took for the 
initial visit was unreasonable under the circumstances.
The terms and conditions also say:
Replacement parts
Well try to get parts from the original manufacturer or our approved suppliers....
British Gas says the delays were beyond its control because the parts were out of stock for a 
few weeks. It says it chased for the part and kept Mr W up to date. 
Mr W says that when he arranged the repair himself, the engineer was able to complete it 
the same day as he had the part in his van. I can understand why Mr W feels British Gas 
should have been able to get hold of the part much sooner. However, British Gass notes 
show that it was chasing for the out of stock part from its suppliers on a weekly basis. So, Im 
satisfied from the information Ive seen, that a delay was unavoidable and British Gas made 
reasonable efforts to resolve the issue.
If the delay in getting parts had gone on for much longer, I think it would be reasonable to 
expect British Gas to have found another way of settling Mr Ws claim. However, British Gas 
agreed to reimburse Mr W the cost of the repairs he arranged himself and I think this was 
reasonable. 
Mr W feels strongly that he shouldnt have needed to pay an excess because British Gas 
didnt complete the claim. He says British Gas didnt inform him of this when it told him to 
send in the invoice for reimbursement. 
British Gas has noted leaving a voicemail for Mr W advising customer he has the option of 
sending us third party invoice and we will reimburse cost subject to the work being covered 
and the excess deduction.
Its possible that British Gass note doesnt reflect the message that was left, or Mr W didnt 
hear it. However, this wouldnt mean that British Gas wasnt entitled to deduct the excess 
from Mr Ws claim. He would have needed to pay this if British Gas had completed the 
repairs. So, I think it was reasonable for British Gas to have taken off this excess when it 
settled his claim by cash.
According to the policy agreement the excess for central heating cover was £99. So, British 
Gas appears to have taken off less than it was entitled to.
Mr W feels that British Gas should compensate him for the extra gas he says he used for the 
period there was the fault with the boiler. He says if he had turned his boiler off, he wouldnt 
have had any heating or hot water. I appreciate it would have been inconvenient for Mr W to 
have kept turning his boiler off and on again. However, I dont think it would be fair to tell 
British Gas to reimburse Mr W for extra gas usage because he decided to keep the boiler on 
the whole time. In any event, Mr W hasnt provided sufficient evidence to show extra gas 
usage for the period in question. So, Im unable to consider any financial loss. 
I appreciate it was frustrating for Mr W that his boiler wasnt fixed sooner, and he was 
inconvenienced by having to arrange the repairs himself. However, I think the £40 British 
Gas has offered Mr W is reasonable compensation for this. Putting things right
British Gas should pay Mr W £40 if he accepts my decision.
My final decision
British Gas Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £40 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mr W £40.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman