DRN-3729423
The complaint
Mr R, through his representative, complains that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr R was approved for one loan in December 2020 for £1,000 over 18 months repaid with 
18 monthly amounts of just over £228 each. The loan account was in arrears and was sold 
to a debt collection agency in February 2022. 
Mr R complained in July 2022. Our understanding from Loans 2 Go is that a goodwill 
write-off took place of about £914, precipitated by the third party owner of the debt  and so 
no more money was owed on the account and it was closed with both Loans 2 Go and the 
third party debt collector. 
Loans 2 Go issued its final response letter (FRL) to Mr Rs representative in August 2022 in 
which it explained that it was not upholding his complaint and told Mr R about the write-off 
and no more money was owed. 
Mr Rs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman where one of our 
adjudicators considered it. He thought that Loans 2 Go had carried out proportionate checks 
and that the information it had obtained about Mr R was enough for it to make a responsible 
lending decision. 
Mr Rs representative asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint but sent no 
additional information to us to support Mr Rs claim. The unresolved complaint was passed 
to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Loans 2 Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R would be able to repay in a sustainable way? 
And, if not, would those checks have shown that Mr R wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Loans 2 Go did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr R and 
that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Loans 2 Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Rs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Mr R. In practice this meant that Loans 2 Go had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Mr R undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr R. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon 
several factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g., their 
financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same customer, 
a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint 
and I explain here. 
Mr Rs application has details to show that Mr R told Loans 2 Go he earned £3,500 a month 
and had declared around £1,440 each month for his expenses. This included a figure for 
credit commitments which Mr R had inserted £800.  Checks carried out by Loans 2 Go 
seemed to come up with a  much lower income figure and it said in its FRL:
I note that your client declared their monthly income as £3,500.00 we verified that 
they received a minimum of around £2,267.20 via Equifax. Following an extensive 
review of their application, in addition to their credit file, we calculated their total 
expenditure to be about £1,688.60. Therefore, the contractual loan repayment of 
£228.56 would have been affordable for your client.
And it was those figures it used and still the £228 each month for this loan looked affordable.
Loans 2 Go carried out a credit search and Ive reviewed the set of results it received. I can 
see that in late 2017 and 2018 Mr R seemed to have been having some trouble repaying 
debt as he had some defaulted accounts most of which date back to 2017 and 2018, and  
some of which had been settled and others not. But these were historic and not necessarily 
details which would have prompted Loans 2 Go to be concerned. Lenders such as Loans 2 
Go often lend to individuals with some adverse credit history and here the adverse entries 
were not particularly recent. 
Loans 2 Go was correct in its FRL to Mr R where it states that there were no requirements for a potential lender to look at a persons bank account statements. And here it did not do 
so. And yet the credit file plus the discrepancy in his income declaration was discovered with 
its own checks and so the verifications it carried out appear to have been effective. 
If these income and outgoing figures (set out in the FRL) were incorrect for Mr R, his 
representative has not told us that and Mr R has made no mention of it nor have we received 
any financial evidence of his circumstances at the time of the loan. 
So  on current evidence and considering the checks Loans 2 Go carried out I consider that 
proportionate checks were made for a £1,000 loan for a new customer over a relatively 
modest term length and I do not uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman