DRN-3698973
The complaint
Mr B complains that Equiniti Financial Services Limited gave him wrong information about 
the valuation point for one of his funds. He says the wrong information meant he traded on a 
false basis. He wants compensation for the losses he says hes incurred and for the time 
hes spent trying to resolve this matter.
What happened
Mr B has an execution only dealing account with Equiniti. He says he made 15 separate 
purchases of units in a fund, which I will refer to as V, the last being in March 2020. He says 
Equiniti showed the dealing cut off time as 9.15am and the valuation point as 10am. He said 
he placed orders as close to the cut off time as possible  when he knew the previous days 
US and Far Eastern market movements and when he knew how UK and European markets 
had started the day. But he noticed the fund price would increase after a fall in the markets, 
which led him to believe the valuation time was wrong. He found evidence that the valuation 
time was 9pm and he complained to Equiniti that hed been financially disadvantaged.
Equiniti said it receives its pricing information from a third party and that the price shown for 
Mr Bs fund was accurate.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Equiniti was showing the wrong valuation point, but that it had reasonably relied on a third 
party for that information. The investigator couldnt conclude Mr B would have done 
something differently if the correct information had been showing on Equinitis website, so 
she didnt think Equiniti needed to compensate Mr B.
Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me. 
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld but I thought compensation should only be paid for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr B had been caused. I explained why, saying:
I agree with the investigator that Equiniti reasonably relied on the information 
provided by a third party for the price, valuation point and dealing cut off time for V. 
And when Mr B first queried the information with Equiniti in March 2020, I think it 
acted reasonably by checking the information it received from that third party was 
reflected on its website.
But on 30 April 2020, Mr B told Equiniti that he had found evidence that the valuation 
point for V was 9pm  not 10am as shown on Equinitis website. Despite chasing, 
Mr B didnt receive a response until he complained. But Equinitis response to Mr Bs 
complaint did not address the incorrect information, it merely said its website showed 
the correct price. I think Equiniti had been put on notice by Mr B that it might be 
showing inaccurate information on its website. I think it reasonably should have done 
more to check the valuation point and dealing cut off times  all it needed to do was 
check Vs website or, as our investigator did, email V.
Even after our investigator passed Equiniti the information V had provided  that its 
valuation point is 9pm and its dealing deadline is 9am  Equiniti didnt take any 
action. It conceded that our website could be clearer, but didnt think this had 
disadvantaged Mr B.
When the complaint was passed to me, I again asked Equiniti whether it thought the 
information it was showing on its website about V was fair, clear and not misleading 
and whether it would consider a goodwill payment to Mr B for the time and trouble he 
had taken to bring this to its attention. I pointed out that it was showing a dealing cut 
off time which was 15 minutes later than Vs published cut off time. Equiniti said it 
had changed the cut off time on its website to 9am. And that it would review any 
award I suggested.
It's disappointing that Equiniti is still not showing the correct valuation point on its 
website. But my role doesnt extend to ordering Equiniti to correct the information it 
chooses to display. Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. 
My role is to consider the individual circumstances here to decide the outcome of this 
complaint.
I think the inaccurate information Equiniti displayed did mislead Mr B. But I cant 
conclude this led to a financial loss for which he should be compensated. He told us 
there may have been orders he might not have placed if hed known the valuation 
point was 11 hours later than Equiniti was showing because of the risk of market 
movements affecting the price. Whilst I accept he hasnt dealt in V since he realised 
the valuation point was 9pm, I dont think Mr B has been able to say with any 
certainty what he would have done differently. And, whilst I havent looked in detail at 
the 15 trades he placed, its likely that on some occasions the price was lower than 
he expected it to be too. In any event, Im satisfied Mr B received the correct price for 
the orders he placed, so I cant order Equiniti to compensate him for a financial loss 
that he thinks he may have incurred.
But, as noted above, I think Equiniti should have done more at an earlier stage to 
check the information it was displaying was accurate. It failed to do that which meant 
Mr B continued to have to make his own investigations and to refer his complaint to 
us. I think its fair hes compensated for the time and inconvenience hes been put to. 
I consider £150 to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt have any further information or comment. Equiniti didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has any further comment in response to my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to depart from my earlier conclusions.My final decision
My final decision is that Equiniti Financial Services Limited should pay Mr B £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman