DRN-2157597
The complaint
Mr A complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to Markerstudy I include other companies and individuals insofar as I hold 
Markerstudy responsible for their actions.
Mr A took out a comprehensive policy with Markerstudy. Six months later, he and a third 
party were involved in an accident. Markerstudy had to deal with the third party claims. 
But instead of dealing with Mr As claim for damage to his car, Markerstudy said his policy 
was void. This was on the ground that Mr A had given incorrect address information. 
Markerstudy didnt refund any premium because of the third party claims.
Mr A complained. Markerstudy sent a final response on 8 March 2019. Mr A brought his 
complaint to us in July 2019.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think it was 
fair for Markerstudy to avoid Mr As policy and not deal with his claim. She recommended 
that Markerstudy should: 
1. remove any avoidance and cancellation markers off Mr As internal and external 
insurance databases;
2. award £1,000.00 in compensation for distress and inconvenience;
3. deal with Mr As claim in line with the remaining policy terms;
4. refund the difference in the extra premiums he paid when he had to take out a new 
policy because of the avoidance.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to Markerstudy on 30 July 2020. I summarise my findings:
Markerstudy treated Mr A unfairly by saying the policy was void.
Subject to any further information from Mr A or from Markerstudy, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to:
1. not treat the policy as void; and
2. deal with Mr As claim;
3. remove the cancellation or avoidance from internal and external databases;
4. write a letter to Mr A saying that it cancelled or avoided his policy in error;
5. reimburse Mr A insofar as his past or current insurers, without making a rebate, 
provide written evidence of how much the unfair avoidance increased his premium; 
and: 
6. pay Mr A simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on each amount it reimburses from 
the date Mr A paid it to the date of its reimbursement. If Markerstudy considers that 
HM Revenue and Customs requires it to withhold income tax from that interest, it 
must tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate; and
7. pay Mr A £500.00 for distress and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A hasnt responded to the provisional decision. Markerstudy accepts the provisional 
decision. So I see no reason to change my view.
From the policy documents, I see that in early April 2017 Mr A was under 25 years old and 
he had only just acquired the car. 
On 2 April 2017 Mr A used a price comparison or aggregator website. From a screenshot, I 
find that there were questions about where M A would keep the car overnight.
According to the aggregators later messages to Mr A, he entered information that he lived at 
his mothers address in London, but his vehicle would be kept overnight on a drive at his 
fathers postcode in Essex. The site generated a quote.
The next day Mr A accessed the quote again. There was then a telephone call. From the call 
recording, I note that the call-handler asked Mr A the following question: 
please confirm where your vehicle is kept overnight.
In answer Mr A said in a drive.
The call-handler didnt ask the address of the drive. I think Mr A expected the call-handler to 
have access to the information hed given and the quote the previous day.
Later the call-handler asked the following:
what is your permanent and only address?
Im satisfied that this was a clear question. But it only invited one address in answer. In answer Mr A gave his mothers address in London. I havent seen enough evidence to say 
that  in April 2017  his mothers address wasnt his permanent and only address.
Ive thought about whether  in April 2017 - Mr A made a misrepresentation within the 
meaning of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and 
 if he did  whether that was through his failure to take reasonable care.
I find that Markerstudy has fallen short of showing either that Mr A made a misrepresentation 
or that he did so carelessly. 
Several months went by and Mr A had some changes in his life. In September 2017 he says 
he started a course at a university closer to his fathers address than to his mothers.
The accident occurred on 27 October 2017. Mr A was in hospital for some time. 
Markerstudy investigated several issues. It wrote to Mr A on 12 April 2018 saying that it was 
treating the policy as void from the start.
But Ive found that Markerstudy has fallen short of showing that in April 2017 Mr A either 
made a misrepresentation or that he did so carelessly. So I find that it treated Mr A unfairly 
by saying the policy was void.
Markerstudy told Mr A that it would have to deal with third party claims and that it might seek 
recovery from him. I can tell that he was distressed about this from the letters he had to write 
 at a time when he was still healing from his injuries. I find it fair and reasonable to direct 
Markerstudy to pay Mr A £500.00 for distress and inconvenience.
He was also concerned about the cost of getting motor insurance. But Mr A hasnt given us 
details of any later policies or their costs.
Putting things right
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Markerstudy not to treat the policy as void but to deal 
with Mr As claim. I will direct it to remove the cancellation or avoidance from internal and 
external databases. 
I will direct Markerstudy to write a letter to Mr A saying that it avoided his policy in error. He 
may show that letter to past or present insurers. He may ask them for written evidence of 
how much the unfair avoidance increased his premium and whether they will make a rebate. 
Insofar as he obtains such written evidence without a rebate, I will direct Markerstudy to 
reimburse him with interest at our usual rate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to:
1. not treat the policy as void; and
2. deal with Mr As claim;
3. remove the cancellation or avoidance from internal and external databases;
4. write a letter to Mr A saying that it cancelled or avoided his policy in error;5. reimburse Mr A insofar as his past or current insurers, without making a rebate, 
provide written evidence of how much the unfair avoidance increased his 
premium; and: 
6. pay Mr A simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on each amount it reimburses 
from the date Mr A paid it to the date of its reimbursement. If Markerstudy 
considers that HM Revenue and Customs requires it to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it must tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
7. pay Mr A £500.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman