DRN-2308887
The complaint
Mrs B complains Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) proportionately settled her claim 
following her falling ill abroad. And shes unhappy with the customer service provided. 
Mrs Bs complaint is brought on her behalf by her daughter, who is also Mrs B. For ease, Ill 
refer to all submissions as having been made by Mrs Bs daughter.
What happened
Mrs B and her mother travelled abroad on a cruise holiday. Unfortunately during the trip, Mrs 
Bs mother became unwell and was taken to hospital. She was treated for fluid on the lungs 
and congestive heart failure. 
Mrs B contacted URV about her mothers condition. After URV reviewed her medical 
records, it contacted Mrs B and said some of her mothers pre-existing medical conditions 
hadnt been declared. And because of this, it said it would have charged a higher premium 
for the policy, and would only cover 25% of the cost of the claim. 
Once Mrs Bs mother was deemed medically fit to fly, URV arranged an assisted repatriation 
back to the UK. And following the return, Mrs B made a complaint. She said she thought 
URVs decision to proportionately settle the claim was unfair. And said during the call where 
URV advised it wouldnt cover the claim in full, the call handler treated her poorly. 
URV responded to the complaint. It said it thought it had acted correctly towards Mrs B 
throughout the handling of the claim. And it said its decision to proportionately settle the 
claim had been right, due to several of Mrs Bs mothers pre-existing medical conditions not 
being disclosed when the policy was taken out.
Unhappy with URVs response, Mrs B brought the complaint to this service. An investigator 
here looked into what had happened and said she thought URV hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators view. She said she couldnt see how she could have 
been expected to declare conditions she was unaware of, and said she felt badly let down. 
URV didnt make any further comments on the view. 
As Mrs B disagreed with the view, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigator that this complaint should not be 
upheld. And Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is, what CIDRA describes as, a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA, depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. URV has said Mrs B 
failed to take reasonable care when she answered its questions about her mothers pre-
existing medical conditions online. The questions relevant to the complaint were as follows.
Have you or anyone to be insured under the policy ever been diagnosed or had 
treatment for:
Any type of heart or circulatory condition
Any type of stroke or high blood pressure
Any type of breathing condition (such as asthma)
Any type of irritable bowel disease
Any type of diabetes
In the last two years have you or anyone to be insured under this policy been:
Treated for any serious or re-occurring medical condition
Asked to take regular prescribed medication
Been referred to a specialist or consultant at a hospital for tests, 
diagnosis or treatment?
In response to these questions, Mrs B declared her mother had suffered with angina / heart 
attack and high blood pressure. However URV identified several other medical conditions 
within Mrs Bs mothers medical records, which it said should have been disclosed.
I think the questions Mrs B was asked were clear. She was asked whether her mother had 
ever been diagnosed or treated for any type of heart or circulatory condition and any type of 
stroke. And she was asked about treatment for any serious or re-occurring medical condition 
within the last two years. So Im satisfied she also needed to declare further conditions for 
her mother, including two prior heart conditions, a stroke and pneumonia; which was 
diagnosed just a couple of months before the policy was taken out. 
Because of the above, Im persuaded Mrs B failed to take reasonable care to answer URVs 
questions correctly. For URV to take any action, there needs to have been a qualifying 
misrepresentation. So I need to identify whether or not the misrepresentation made by Mrs B 
made a difference to URV. 
URV provided underwriting evidence about what it would have done had Mrs B declared all 
of her mothers pre-existing conditions when she took out the policy on her behalf. This shows URV would still have offered cover, but would have charged a significantly higher 
premium. And because of this, Im satisfied there was a qualifying misrepresentation.
URV deemed the misrepresentation Mrs B made to have been careless. She declared some 
but not all of her mothers pre-existing conditions when taking out the policy, so I think its fair 
that URV has classified the misrepresentation as careless, rather than deliberate or reckless.
As Im satisfied the misrepresentation made by Mrs B should be treated as careless, Ive 
looked at the actions URV can take in accordance with CIDRA. URV has evidenced it would 
have charged more for the policy, and because there has been a claim, the remedy available 
is a proportionate settlement. And so I think it was fair for URV to agree settle the claim 
proportionately, in line with the percentage difference in the premium it would have charged, 
had all of the relevant pre-existing medical conditions been declared when the policy was 
taken out.
Mrs B has said she didnt know of the other conditions contained within her mothers medical 
records. And has questioned how she can have been expected to declare something she 
didnt know about. However, in taking out the insurance policy on her mothers behalf, Mrs B 
had a responsibility to ensure she answered the insurers questions accurately. And could 
have discussed the questions with her mother before completing the online form. 
Ive reviewed the policy terms, and I think these give clear information about the importance 
of providing accurate information about pre-existing medical conditions. The following 
information is given on page five. 
You have a duty to take reasonable care to answer questions fully and accurately, 
and that any information you volunteer is not misleading. This applies both when you 
take the policy out and at any time during the policy period. If you do not do so we 
reserve the right to void your policy from inception. 
URV has provided evidence of the higher premium it would have charged if the additional 
medical conditions had been declared. And the premium Mrs Bs mother originally paid, 
equated to only 19.67% of the total amount she would have been charged. Because of this, 
in line with the industry rules, URV is only required to settle 19.67% of the claim costs. 
However, URV agreed to pay 25% of the costs of the claim  more than its required to - and 
I think this shows it has acted fairly. 
Other expenses claimed for
Mrs B also raised concerns about additional costs URV hadnt covered, such as taxi fares 
and food at the hotel where she was staying while her mother was in hospital. Having 
reviewed the policy, there is an exclusion relating to the cost of taxi fares, telephone calls, 
faxes or any expenses for food or drink. Im satisfied there isnt any cover for the food and 
taxi related costs, so URV wasnt required to meet these. 
Quality of hospital care
Whilst Im very sorry to hear of the circumstances of Mrs Bs mothers hospital stay abroad, 
the quality of care offered by the treating hospital isnt something I can reasonably hold URV 
accountable for. I understand Mrs B has made a direct complaint to the hospital about her 
concerns. Customer service
Ive listened to a recording of the conversation between Mrs B and URV, and understand 
Mrs B is unhappy with the way she was treated during the call. This call was made by URV 
to advise Mrs B it would only meet 25% of the claim costs. It was a difficult conversation due 
to the message being relayed, and Mrs B was understandably very upset. But nothing Ive 
heard leads me to think the call was inappropriately handled by URV. So I wont be asking it 
to take any action here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Union Reiseversicherung AG. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman