DRN-4422742
The complaint
Ms Y complains about how UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance (Churchill) 
has handled her motor insurance claim. 
What happened
Ms Y was sold breakdown cover as part of her Churchill insurance policy from 2017. Mr Y 
says it auto renewed each year since 2017. 
Ms Y needed to use her breakdown service for the first time in July 2023. She says when the 
tow truck arrived the driver wasnt able to advise her on what level of breakdown cover she 
had, or how she and her family would get back home. So, Ms Y made her own 
arrangements to get to a place of safety. 
Ms Y called Churchill to ascertain the nature of her breakdown cover and was told she 
needed to contact the breakdown assistance provider for that information. So she contacted 
her roadside assistance provider who told her she needed to contact Churchill. Churchill 
eventually told Ms Y she had roadside assistance and onward travel to take her car to a 
garage within 10 miles. 
Ms Y complained to Churchill since she felt she was mis-sold the breakdown cover. Churchill 
told her it had sent her a policy booklet detailing all the information regarding breakdown 
cover. Because of Ms Ys neurodivergence she prefers verbal communication and says she 
would have called Churchill when taking out the policy to discuss the breakdown cover. But 
Churchill told her it doesnt have those calls any longer. 
Ms Y says she was sold an important product and when she needed it the breakdown 
recovery service wasnt able to discuss her policy with her. She says when her car broke 
down it was 4.30am and she was unable to access any amenities. Ms Y wasnt happy with 
the service so she complained and cancelled her breakdown cover. 
Ms Y says when she took out the policy in 2017 she would have discussed the breakdown 
cover with Churchill. And being sent a booklet doesnt absolve Churchill of its responsibility 
to her. She says she wouldnt have been able to read or retain the information in the booklet. 
She was unable to use her breakdown cover when she needed it which left her distressed, 
feeling unsafe, humiliated, scared and having to engage with a man who she felt was a 
threat. 
Ms Y wants Churchill to refund her £44.35 for each year she paid the additional premium for 
the breakdown cover. Ms Y also wants a refund for the taxi fare of £26, together with £250 
she was charged by another breakdown provider which she had to pay to get her car taken 
to a garage. She also wants compensation for being mis sold the product and hurt feelings. 
In response to the complaint Churchill said Ms Y took her policy out online in 2017. Churchill 
said at the time it was a free level of cover. And since it was taken out online it wasnt mis-
sold. Churchill said it sent her renewal documents each year which outlines the terms of the 
policy, and if Ms Y had any questions about the level of cover she could contact Churchill. It 
said since Ms Y hadnt made any contact the level of cover didnt change. Churchill also said 
any complaints regarding the level of service from the breakdown provider needed to be 
directed to the provider. Churchill accepted the service provided to Ms Y on the night she 
broke down was poor and she should have been told about what her cover entailed. So 
Churchill transferred £100 into her account by way of an apology. Ms Y remained 
dissatisfied with the response from Churchill so she referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators looked into things for her. She said since she didnt have 
information on the renewals from 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020 she was persuaded these had 
been mis-sold. The investigator said the policy renewals in 2021 and 2022 werent mis-sold. 
She said Churchill should refund the premiums paid in 2018, 2019, and 2020 plus 8% simple 
interest from the date they were paid to the date theyre refunded. 
Following the view, Churchill provided the investigator with renewal information. On review of 
the new evidence she said the information for 2019 and 2020 was clear and showed the 
type of cover provided. So the information given was clear for those years. Churchill wasnt 
able to give information in relation to the initial sale and the 2018 renewal. But, having seen 
the subsequent renewals, she was satisfied the 2018 renewal was likely to have been 
similar.  Our investigator agreed it would have been frustrating not being able to get the 
information needed from Churchill when Ms Y called  but it didnt warrant compensation 
and overall Churchill had acted in the way she expected. And so, the complaint wasnt 
upheld. 
Ms Y didnt agree. She said the distress from the matter is significant; the vehicle broke 
down with passengers that were children. She said when she called Churchill for information 
about her cover it wasnt able to provide it. And she found making the numerous calls 
distressing. So, the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Before I do I think its clear how strongly Ms Y feels about her complaint. I want to assure her 
that Ive carried out an independent review and considered everything that both parties have 
submitted. We provide an informal complaints handling service as a free alternative to the 
courts and this is reflected in the way Ive approached this complaint. Its part of my role to 
identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order to reach a fair 
outcome  this means I might not mention everything Ms Y has said. But I will comment on 
anything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint.  
Ms Y has complained about the service she received from the breakdown provider but that 
forms part of a separate complaint against the provider, so I wont discuss that part of the 
complaint here. My remit here is to look at the complaint against Churchill; which is that the 
policy was mis-sold to Ms Y. And that when she called Churchill for information about the 
breakdown service it was unable to provide her with the information and she had to make a 
number of calls to try and ascertain what the level of her cover was. 
Telephone calls to Churchill 
When Ms Ys car broke down she contacted Churchill to ascertain what level of cover she 
had and what that entailed. Ms Y was told that in order to get that information she would need to contact the roadside assistance provider, and so thats what she did. But the 
roadside assistance provider wasnt able to tell her the level of cover either and referred her 
back to Churchill. 
I can see this would have been frustrating and distressing  to be passed from one business 
to another in a time of need would have been difficult. And I understand being broken down, 
during the night with her children, Ms Y was looking for some information and reassurance 
from Churchill. But it wasnt provided. 
When Ms Y complained to Churchill it accepted the service she received during the course 
of the calls was poor. The handler should have confirmed the policy entitlements and what 
should be expected. But they didnt. So, by way of an apology Churchill transferred £100 
directly into Ms Ys bank account. And I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of the complaint, and in line with the awards we make as a service. 
Ms Y has said she hasnt received any compensation from Churchill so I would expect it to 
evidence to Ms Y that payment has been made and when. 
Mis-sale
 
Ms Y says she was mis-sold her policy. 
Ms Y took her insurance policy out through a price comparison website in 2017. She wasnt 
advised about the product she was taking out, but she chose the company she wanted to 
purchase motor insurance from. 
Because the sale of the property was non-advised I would expect Churchill to provide Ms Y 
with detailed information about the policy including policy documents, terms and conditions, 
and the information product document (IPID) I can see from the evidence provided that 
Churchill provided this information to Ms Y each time the policy renewed. 
I would then expect Ms Y to check the details of the policy were accurate and provided the 
level of cover required for her needs. Ms Y has told us she is neurodiverse and isnt able to 
review and retain written documentation. But Churchill werent aware of this, and I cant see 
anything in the notes to say Ms Y told them. And so I cant say Churchill did anything wrong 
in sending Ms Y her documents; since it wasnt aware that wasnt the most suitable method 
of communication for her. 
The IPID that is provided with the policy documents provides an overview of the policy. It 
explains what is insured, what isnt insured, and whether there are any restrictions on cover. 
The 2022 IPID says, 
What is insured? Roadside  help at roadside, day or night, recovery to a local repairer.
What is not insured  costs incurred where you didnt contact us
Are there any restrictions on cover roadside assistance is only if your car is broken down  
mile or more from your home or where you usually keep it. 
From the evidence Ive seen Churchill sent Ms Y a copy of the IPID when she purchased her 
policy, and then again at renewal. And the information in respect of what level of cover she 
had and what the exclusions were was provided to her. So I cant say Churchill didnt make 
Ms Y aware of the nature of her cover, and I cant say it mis-sold her the policy.I know Ms Y will be disappointed with my decision. That is understandable given what 
happened, and I do empathise with the position she finds herself in. However, this doesnt 
mean Churchill has done anything wrong. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think Churchill has acted fairly in trying to resolve Ms 
Ys complaint. Therefore I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman