DRN-1718519
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited incorrectly applied an 
attachment of earnings order for debt they bought from his credit card provider. 
What happened 
Mr S had a credit card debt which Cabot bought in September 2015. Cabot wrote to him to 
let him know and asked that he contact them to set up a payment plan. They tried to contact 
him in writing on a number of occasions but were unsuccessful, so they instructed their 
solicitors to try to collect the debt. The solicitors wrote to Mr S on 18 January 2016 asking for 
contact, or they would proceed with legal action against him. They said that Cabot would 
consider reasonable offers of payment, based on what Mr S could afford to pay and asked 
for Mr S to return an income and expenditure questionnaire within 14 days.  
Mr S says he never received any letters from Cabot or their solicitors. As no contact was 
made with the solicitors, they issued legal proceedings on 5 February 2016  again 
no further response was received from Mr S so the court issued a judgement (CCJ) against 
Mr S and ordered payments of £50 per month. The solicitors again wrote to Mr S on 1 June 
2016 and asked him to contact them and if no contact was received, theyd be applying for 
an attachment of earnings. 
No response was received so the solicitors applied for an attachment of earnings. The court 
wrote to Mr S to get more details about his income and expenditure  Mr S responded to the 
court, he told us hed received this letter as he had set up mail redirect from his old address. 
Mr S sent the form back and also updated the court with his new address. On 9 December 
2016 the court made a suspended attachment of earnings order at Mr Ss request and asked 
for it not to be enforced as long as Mr S punctually paid Cabot £20 per month starting from 4 
January 2017. 
The solicitors wrote to Mr S on 23 December 2016 advising him of the court order and 
requesting payment be made by 4 January 2017. Again, no payment was received, so the 
solicitors sent a further letter chasing the payment on 10 January 2017  but both letters 
were sent to Mr Ss previous address as the solicitors hadn't updated the address details. 
The solicitors then asked the court to re-issue the attachment of earning due to the failure of 
Mr S to make payments in line with the previous suspended order. This was issued by the 
court in April 2017 and Cabot started receiving payment from May 2017 through Mr Ss 
employer. 
In September 2019 Mr S complained to the solicitors about the attachment of earnings order. 
The solicitors issued their final response in September 2019, they acknowledged they should 
have updated his address in December 2016. So they asked the court to remove the 
attachment of earnings order and revert it back to a suspended one. They offered Mr S £150 
in compensation, plus £30 fees hed been charged by his employer for administering the 
attachment of earnings. They also offered to return the payments they had taken from his 
employer but reminded him if returned, his outstanding balance would increase. Mr S asked for the return of the payments but remained unhappy so he complained to Cabot 
about this and about other matters such as his credit file and the actions of Cabot and their 
solicitors in recovering the debt. Cabot largely agreed with the findings of their solicitors. Mr 
S then referred the complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into it  he felt that the solicitors should have updated Mr Ss 
address and agreed this had caused him distress and embarrassment with his employer. He 
felt £150 compensation was sufficient  he said that Mr S would have known about the 
payments he needed to make, as this would have been on the court order sent directly to 
him. He said as the solicitors had also reverted the attachment of earnings order back to a 
suspended one, he wouldn't be asking Cabot to do anything further. 
Mr S didn't agree, he said the error had affected his credit file, and he felt that Cabot were 
being allowed to profit from their mistake. Mr S wanted his account settled due to the error. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr S is aware that hes liable for the debt. The CCJ was applied by the court, so I cant 
consider that. But I can look into whether Cabot acted reasonably and treated Mr S fairly in 
attempting to collect the payments he was expected to make.
Ive seen copies of numerous letters to Mr S from Cabot and their solicitors. Cabot say they 
wrote to Mr S on 16 September 2015 and explained theyd bought the debt and were 
seeking repayment. I've seen further letters sent on 22 October 2015, 26 November 2015 
and 14 January 2016. The January letter said as there had been no contact they were 
referring his account to their solicitors. Their solicitors also wrote to Mr S on 
numerous occasions, but Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr S contacted Cabot or their 
solicitors to discuss repayment following any of the letters they sent. So, their solicitors 
issued proceedings and obtained a CCJ from the court. 
Mr S said he didn't receive any of these letters because he had changed addressed, but hes 
also told us that he always arranged a postal redirect service to receive his letters; and this 
is how he received the letter from the court to which he responded. Having seen the letters 
from Cabot and their solicitors I can see they were correctly addressed albeit to his previous 
address. However, this would also have been the address the court wrote to him at - so I 
would have expected some of these letters to have been received by him 
But I dont think this significantly matters, I say this because Mr S has told us he received the 
suspended attachment of earnings order which detailed when and what amount he needed 
to pay. So, whilst I appreciate Mr S may not have received the previous letters from Cabot or 
their solicitors  the court order should have alerted him to what he needed to do. Mr S said 
he was only concerned about returning the information the court had requested  but this 
was an important document and I would have expected him to read it fully due to the serious 
consequences of not complying with it.
On 23 December 2016, Cabots solicitor wrote to Mr S, they explained that the court had 
issued a suspended attachment of earning order and asked for him to make arrangements 
for the payments to be made punctually as the court had ordered. Mr S may not have 
received this letter but as I've said he would have received the order from the court which set 
out what he needed to do and had he done so, I think it was reasonable to expect him to 
contact Cabot or their solicitors to start making the payment even if he hadn't heard from them. And he would have been aware of their involvement from the court documents, at the 
very least. 
I do think Cabot, or their solicitors should have checked they had the right address for Mr S 
especially after receiving the new address from the court. Had they done so, this may have 
helped resolve the situation sooner. Cabots solicitors have reverted the attachment of 
earnings to a suspended one and agreed to refund Mr S the payments they took from his 
employer together with the additional administration charge he had to pay his employer. I 
can see they have also offered to pay Mr S £150 for not updating his address and the 
inconvenience caused. Having considered all the circumstances I think that is reasonable in 
this case.
Mr S has suggested that Cabot and their solicitors were profiting from their mistake by 
adding further charges to the account, but I can't see that they have - no additional charges 
were applied when the solicitors re-applied for the attachment of earnings, so there was no 
additional loss for him.  
Mr S has also raised concerns about the affect this has had on his credit file, but lenders are 
required to report an accurate reflection of the account activity with the credit reference 
agencies. So, if payments are missed and further action is taken then I would expect a 
lender to record this accurately. As this is what has happened here, I wont be asking Cabot 
to remove this information from Mr Ss credit file.  
Overall, I think Cabot has acted reasonably  they ensured he was aware of the debt and 
asked for proposals for him to repay before passing it to their solicitors. The solicitors then 
gave Mr S further chances to reach an agreement, but none was reached.
My final decision 
For the reasons mentioned above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I am aware that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited via their solicitors have made an 
offer to pay £150 plus £30 in administration charges. I conclude that such an offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that this payment should be made to Mr 
S, if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman