DRN-2897945
The complaint
Miss C says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold 
her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Miss C took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2007. Miss C paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case of accidents, illnesses, 
or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Cs case. 
Ive decided that Miss Cs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Miss C signed and submitted an application form specifically for PPI. She also set up a direct 
debit specifically to pay for it, separately to the mortgage itself  the PPI was not part and 
parcel of the lending. Lloyds had recommended the PPI to her, and this was only a 
recommendation, not a requirement. Her mortgage offer reiterated she didnt have to buy 
any PPI from Lloyds if she didnt want to. Ive not seen any evidence which shows Miss C 
being told the PPI was compulsory, and Ive not seen any wider problems with Lloyds sales 
process from the time either. So I think its most likely that Lloyds made it clear for Miss C 
that the PPI was optional, and that she chose to buy it at the time  though I can understand 
if she no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss C, so it had to check it was right for her. And from 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like 
Miss C was eligible for the policy and was not affected by any of its key exclusions or 
limitations. The PPI would have paid out in addition to Miss Cs work benefits and offered her 
more comprehensive cover, especially for when her benefits reduced or ran out. It also 
meant she could effectively protect her savings and use them for other things, instead of 
potentially needing to sacrifice one asset to save another. Its worth keeping in mind that the 
mortgage was a very significant, long-term commitment, and if Miss C had fallen behind on 
the payments she couldve lost her home. So in her situation, it looks like the PPI could have 
been useful for her in protecting her home and providing some peace of mind.
It is possible that the information Lloyds gave Miss C about the policy wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Here, I can see Miss C chose to take out PPI, which indicates she 
wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Miss C wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case shed needed 
to claim. The policy was competitively priced given how much it could pay out in its benefit. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Miss C could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. So in this case, I dont think that better information was likely to have put 
Miss C off taking out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I set out, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman