DRN-1619794
The complaint
Mrs R complains that BUPA Insurance Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably in dealing 
with her request for a discount for private health insurance. She wants matters put right. 
What happened
Mrs R originally had a private health insurance policy covering the UK only with BUPA. In 
2009, she had to end it as she had moved abroad. Mrs R said that BUPA told her if she 
changed to international cover, the cover would be continuous and when she returned to live 
in the UK, she could have the UK policy on the same terms as before, including having the 
discount offered to those employed by a particular organisation as her original policy was a 
group policy.
Mrs R took out international cover; she returned to the UK in 2019. In the meantime, the 
discount was ended as the scheme was closed. When Mrs R asked for the discount on her 
return to the UK, BUPA apologised and said that it wasnt available. It offered £200 
compensation for not being clear enough in 2009, and explained that Mrs R had told it in 
2009 that shed return in a years time, not after a decade. It also pointed out that Mrs R no 
longer worked at the organisation and it had the right to change the products it offered. 
Mrs R said shed left in 2006, but BUPA was content to let her stay on the scheme up to 
2009.
Mrs R complained to us as she felt shed continued with the international policy on the belief 
she could one day return to the discounted UK policy. BUPA accepted that it couldve 
explained better in 2009 that its answer was based on Mrs R returning in a years time and 
that it depended on the availability of the policy. The investigators view was that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said that it was clear Mrs R had asked about a return to 
the UK in a years time, not a decades. The investigator didnt think it was fair or reasonable 
for Mrs R to be allowed to return to a closed scheme, but £200 compensation was fair and 
reasonable for the 2009 email not being clear enough about the position.
Mrs R disagreed. She said she initially moved abroad for four months and then decided to 
stay longer, but always intended to return to the UK. Mrs R said that she told BUPA on the 
phone that she didnt know when she would return, and only continued with the international 
policy to get the future discount on the UK policy. Mrs R was adamant that the scheme still 
existed for new employees of the organisation involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due to the passage of time, the calls from 2009 arent available. I do have the email 
exchange between Mrs R and BUPA, which starts with Mrs R asking about if she could have 
the discount if she returned to the UK in a years time. The email in response from BUPA to 
Mrs R says Following our telephone conversation today I am pleased to confirm that if you 
transfer your UK Bupa cover to BUPA International and keep your cover continuous you may 
return to the Bupa UK policy under the same terms as before therefore keeping your 
[redacted organisation name] discount. I note that the email talks about returning to the 
policy under the same terms and Mrs R keeping the discount. No time frame for the return 
was within the email, but it was a response to Mrs Rs initial email asking if she could return 
to her UK policy if she was abroad for a year. BUPA has said its email wasnt an indefinite 
offer, but a response to a query about being abroad for one year. Given the context of the 
emails, I think BUPAs offer was only to cover the scenario of Mrs R being away for one 
year, not ten years.
In any event, it isnt fair or reasonable in the circumstances to expect BUPA to allow Mrs R 
to re-join the scheme after ten years. The situation has changed in several ways, in terms of 
the insurance market, factual changes, and the original scheme itself (which allowed people 
to stay once theyd left the organisation).
BUPA has said the original scheme is now closed and its provided evidence that the exact 
scheme from 2009 no longer is offered to new members and once left, cant be re-joined 
because its closed. It isnt fair or reasonable for me to require BUPA to allow Mrs R to re-
join a closed scheme. Its offer was for a one year period, not a decade. Mrs R isnt an 
employee of that organisation and so cant be a new joiner to its current schemes. The 
scheme the organisation now offers isnt the same one as Mrs R had in 2009, according to 
the limited evidence before me, and Mrs R isnt entitled to access.
Ten years has passed since 2009, and its correct that insurance has changed a great deal 
in the meantime. But Mrs R has confirmed that shes more interested in the discount than 
the actual scheme. BUPA has confirmed that other schemes with a discount may be 
available to her, particularly as she had international cover. Mrs R also benefitted from 
continuity of cover and coverage for pre-existing conditions due to the continuation of the 
international policy for ten years. But its for Mrs R to discuss other options with BUPA; in 
terms of allowing her to return to the original, now closed, scheme, Ive found that this 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable. I would also make the point that it wasnt possible for Mrs R 
to continue the original policy as she moved abroad.
Im not persuaded that Mrs R has suffered financial loss. Theres no evidence of cheaper 
suitable international policies, and Ive explained above the benefits shes received from 
continuing the international policy. Compensation for trouble and upset never truly 
compensates, but I think £200 compensation for the 2009 email not making it crystal-clear to 
Mrs R that the time period covered was one year only, and was subject to the availability of 
the scheme on her return is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Mrs R to accept the 
£200 offer of compensation if not already paid. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman