DRN-3860748
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that a Home Owner Loan (HOL) was mis-sold by HSBC UK 
Bank Plc. Mr and Mrs C say that when they wanted to remortgage their main mortgage to 
another lender to secure a better rate, they were also required to repay the HOL, as a result 
of which they incurred an early repayment charge (ERC). 
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs C want HSBC to compensate them for their losses.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letter dated 25 October 2022. All parties have a copy of that letter, 
so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs C being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of 
what happened quite brief.
In December 2020 Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage with HSBC on which they owed 
approximately £225,000. This was on a fixed rate until October 2022 and if it was repaid 
before that date, it would incur an ERC.
Mr and Mrs C wanted to borrow some additional funds of about £100,000 and discussed 
their requirements with HSBC. In January 2021 HSBC offered Mr and Mrs C a HOL for 
£97,300, on a capital repayment basis over a term of 25 years. The loan was on a fixed rate 
until February 2023. If it was repaid before that date, an ERC would apply.
In the spring of 2022 Mr and Mrs C wanted to re-mortgage to another lender to secure a 
better interest rate. They wanted to pay back the main mortgage to HSBC, but not the HOL. 
Mr and Mrs C tried to apply online for a redemption statement for the main mortgage, but 
were only able to apply for a statement for both loans, which were shown on HSBCs portal 
as Part 1 (the main mortgage) and Part 2 (the HOL).
After querying the situation with HSBC, Mr and Mrs C say they learned for the first time that 
the HOL wasnt a second mortgage, but was part of the main borrowing and would have to 
be repaid at the same time as the main mortgage. They complained that this had never been 
made clear to them when they took out the HOL; they believed it was a second mortgage 
that would remain in place once the main mortgage was repaid.
Mr C, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, said that the HOL locked [them] into 
HSBC indefinitely unless [they] paid a significant penalty and so unfairly restricted [their] 
future options. As a result, Mr C thought the HOL had been mis-sold.
In June 2022 Mr and Mrs C repaid their mortgage and HOL to HSBC, paying the ERCs on 
both parts of the borrowing.
In July 2022 Mr and Mrs C raised their complaint with our service. Mr C says that, not only 
did he and Mrs C have to increase their borrowing to cover the HOL and pay the ERC on 
that, but while this was being sorted out their new lender increased the interest rate. Mr C 
says that this will cost approximately £15,000 in increased payments.
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She was satisfied that the HOL offer was clear that the borrowing would be covered 
by the first legal charge and that it wasnt a second mortgage. The investigator was also 
satisfied that the ERCs had been fairly applied.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings. Mr C said that HSBC owed him a duty 
of care to make sure he was fully informed of the implications of taking the second 
mortgage. Mr C says that if hed have been aware that the main advance and HOL were 
considered to be one mortgage, hed have acted differently when applying for a mortgage 
with the new lender. 
Mr C says HSBC has breached its regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly. Mr C also 
says that it is unfair that if he and Mrs C ever wanted to leave HSBC, they would have to 
incur a significant financial penalty. Mr C says that this breaches the FCAs requirement for 
HSBC to ensure that Consumers do not face unreasonable post-sale barriers imposed by 
firms to change product, switch provider, submit a claim or make a complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have disappointing news for Mr and Mrs C; Im not upholding their 
complaint. These are my reasons.
Mis-sale complaint: Im satisfied that during the call with Mr C on 19 December 2020 when 
he discussed the HOL with HSBC, it was explained that the further borrowing would be 
included in the first charge on the property.
The first page of the offer says:
This mortgage will be secured by a first legal charge over the property below
[address]
If you already have an HSBC mortgage on the property
If you have an existing mortgage from HSBC secured on the property which will 
remain in place, any part or parts of that mortgage that are to remain unchanged will 
also be included within this offer.
In the section headed Additional information about this Home Loan the first section 
says:
When your new Home Loan is added to your existing mortgage Loan, the total 
amount you owe will be £322,107.21.The section then goes on to explain that the mortgage will be in two parts  Part 1 being the 
original mortgage and Part 2 the HOL.
Following that theres an explanation of the monthly repayments for Parts 1 and 2, and how 
the monthly payments will change when Parts 1 and 2 reach the end of their (different) fixed 
rate periods, and that the length of the terms were different by about three months.
Im therefore not persuaded that HSBC didnt explain that the HOL would be included in the 
first legal charge. In the circumstances, Im satisfied the HOL was not mis-sold. 
Payment of ERCs: Mr C says that, because of the ERCs, he and Mrs C were indefinitely 
prevented from leaving HSBC without penalty. I totally agree with Mr C that if there was an 
indefinite ERC applicable either to the main mortgage or the HOL, this would, indeed, be 
unreasonable and unfair.
However, indefinitely means for an unlimited or unspecified period of time. The ERCs 
applicable to both the main mortgage and HOL were not unlimited, and had specified end 
dates that were known to Mr and Mrs C before they took out the loans. Mr and Mrs C were 
therefore free to repay their mortgage and HOL at any time, subject to any ERC that might 
apply.
Mr C refers to an ERC as a penalty. However, an ERC is not a penalty  which has a strict 
meaning in law (a charge levied for breach of contract). Repaying a mortgage early (either in 
full or in part) isnt a breach of contract; it is, in fact, specifically provided for in the contract, 
subject to any ERC that might apply. I note that section 7 of the mortgage offer says:
You have the right to repay this Loan early, either fully or partially. However, an Early 
Repayment Charge may apply if your repay the Loan, or part of it, early.
In the circumstances, I am satisfied that HSBCs ERCs are contractual terms which were 
agreed to by Mr and Mrs C. By borrowing money from HSBC, Mr and Mrs C agreed to pay 
an ERC if they repaid the money before the end of the fixed-term period. 
It follows that HSBCs ERCs were not unreasonable post-sales barriers as claimed by 
Mr C. The ERCs didnt prevent Mr and Mrs C from switching to a new provider. It was their 
choice to do so during the period when ERCs applied and so I find that it was only fair for 
Mr and Mrs C to pay the ERCs theyd previously agreed to pay when they did so. 
Im satisfied that the ERCs were applied in accordance with the terms of the contracts to 
which Mr and Mrs C had agreed to be bound when they borrowed the money from HSBC. In 
the circumstances there is no basis on which I can find that HSBC unfairly applied the ERCs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman