DRN-2346068
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) unfairly 
recorded mortgage arrears on his credit file. Hed like his credit file corrected.
What happened
Mr M has a buy to let mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. He applied to Birmingham 
Midshires for a mortgage on a different property in late 2018. The application was declined, 
due to his existing mortgage being in arrears. Mr M found out that his mortgage with 
Birmingham Midshires was showing as in arrears on his credit file.
Mr M says Birmingham Midshires failed to collect monthly payments under his direct debit. 
He says he changed his account in late 2017, which is with another bank, but the direct debit 
was still active. He said Birmingham Midshires had taken payments for several months after 
the change, before stopping in mid-2018.
Birmingham Midshires says it stopped taking payments under the direct debit when it found 
out the account was closed. It was unable to contact Mr M as hed moved and hadnt 
updated his address. Birmingham Midshires said it didnt have a phone number or up to date 
address until late 2018.
I sent a provision decision to the parties. I summary, I didnt think it was wrong for 
Birmingham Midshires to record arrears on Mr Ms credit file, as it hadnt received payments 
into his mortgage account and was unable to contact him. But once Mr M contacted it and 
explained what happened, it should have removed the adverse data. I didnt think this fairly 
reflected Mr Ms ability or willingness to pay.
Both parties agreed that Birmingham Midshires should remove the adverse data and pay 
compensation of £500 to Mr M for the upset this matter caused him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issued principles for the reporting of arrears to 
credit reference agencies. This requires lenders to report data that is fair, accurate, 
consistent, complete and up to date. Lenders have to report missed payments and arrears. 
ICO says the purpose of reporting arrears is to indicate at the earliest opportunity that a 
customer is showing signs of potential financial difficulty.
Ive taken this into account when considering what the parties have said here. Id also expect 
Birmingham Midshires to treat Mr M fairly.
Birmingham Midshires recorded information on Mr Ms credit file, that his mortgage account 
was in arrears. This was accurate information. Mr Ms account was in arrears and I dont 
think it was wrong for Birmingham Midshires to record this on his credit file.
However, there are circumstances in which it might be fair for a business to remove adverse 
information. Mr M says thats the case here, because the arrears were due to an error by 
Birmingham Midshires. So, he says, the information on his credit file isnt a fair reflection of 
his circumstances or how he manages his account.
What happened?
Mr Ms monthly mortgage payments were made by direct debit from a business account with 
another bank. Mr M asked his bank to transfer the direct debit to his personal account with 
the same bank in late 2017.
Birmingham Midshires received payments from Mr Ms personal account from December 
2017 to May 2018. It didnt receive a payment after this.
Birmingham Midshires didnt immediately write to Mr M about the unpaid direct debit as 
previous post sent to the address in its records had been returned. It did write to this address 
about the arrears, but these letters were also returned. Mr M had moved out of this property 
in 2015.
Birmingham Midshires tried to contact Mr M at the security property. A field agent visited 
both addresses (its possible the field agent didnt go to the correct address for the security 
property).
Mr M became aware of the arrears on his mortgage account in late 2018. He contacted 
Birmingham Midshires. He paid the arrears, updated his contact details and set up a new 
direct debit.
Did Birmingham Midshires make errors?
Mr M provided copies of his bank statements. I can see that direct debit payments, including 
to Birmingham Midshires, were made from Mr Ms personal account from December 2017 to 
May 2018. Most of these direct debit payments were made in June 2018  but not the 
payment to Birmingham Midshires. Mr Ms bank provided a list of active direct debits on 
Mr Ms account in December 2018, which includes the direct debit to Birmingham Midshires. 
I can also see the address on the statements, from December 2017, was Mr Ms current 
address.
Birmingham Midshires says it didnt make an error. It says it received a direct debit report 
that Mr Ms business account was closed and in view of this cancelled the direct debit. It 
says Mr Ms bank didnt transfer the direct debits correctly.
Mr Ms bank provided a letter saying this wasnt the case. It says Birmingham Midshires took 
payments from Mr Ms new account for several months. And then it didnt request a 
payment.
There was an error here that meant Mr Ms direct debit payment stopped being collected. 
But Mr M didnt make the error. Mr M believed  quite reasonably  that his direct debit 
payment had been transferred to his new account.
When Mr M became aware of the arrears he paid them promptly. Theres nothing to suggest 
that Mr M couldnt maintain payments, or that he didnt intend to do so. And so I understand 
why he says the information on his credit file is unfair.Of course, matters might have been sorted out sooner if Mr M had given Birmingham 
Midshires his new address. He didnt do this until December 2018. The email address and 
telephone numbers Birmingham Midshires had for him were also incorrect. Birmingham 
Midshires couldnt contact Mr M about the problem with the direct debit or the arrears. I think 
Birmingham Midshires made reasonable efforts to contact Mr M.
I dont think its reasonable to say that Birmingham Midshires should have asked Mr Ms 
bank for his contact details. I dont know if that bank would have provided them without 
Mr Ms consent.
Mr M might also have spotted the problem sooner if hed checked his bank statements from 
June 2018. But the direct debit payment had been successfully taken for six months before 
this, and I dont think Mr M had any reason to think there would be a problem.
I dont think Birmingham Midshires was wrong to record arrears on Mr Ms credit file. 
Payments werent received into his mortgage account and it was unable to contact him. But I 
think it should have considered whether it was fair to remove the adverse data after Mr M 
contacted it and explained what had happened.
Mr M could have managed his account better. He could have updated his contact details 
with Birmingham Midshires, and he could have continued to check his bank statements after 
June 2018. But I dont think this makes the arrears information on Mr Ms credit file fair. If the 
purpose of recording arrears is an early warning of financial difficulty, I dont think that 
purpose is well served here. Theres no suggestion that Mr M was in financial difficulty, that 
he was struggling to maintain payments or that he chose not to make them. Quite the 
contrary. He reasonably believed the direct debit had been transferred to another account. If 
there was an error with the direct debit, I dont think it was Mr M that made it. As soon as 
Mr M was aware of the problem he paid the arrears and put a new direct debit in place. I 
dont think the information about the arrears is a fair reflection of Mr Ms ability and 
willingness to maintain his mortgage payments. Its possible the adverse information will 
affect Mr Ms ability to secure credit, and his cost of credit, for some years. In the 
circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Birmingham Midshires to remove it.
Putting things right
I think Birmingham Midshires should remove the information about missed payments and 
arrears between June and December 2018 from Mr Ms credit files. Birmingham Midshires 
agreed to do this if Mr M accepts my decision. 
Mr M sent an invoice for mortgage advice in December 2018, when his mortgage application 
was declined due to his credit score. And hes said how upsetting it was for him and his 
family that his related purchase fell through as a result of the mortgage being declined.
I dont think I can fairly require Birmingham Midshires to pay compensation to Mr M for this, 
as this didnt result from Birmingham Midshires error. As Ive said, I dont think it was wrong 
for Birmingham Midshires to record the arrears. It didnt know this wasnt a fair reflection of 
Mr Ms ability and willingness to maintain his mortgage payments until after the mortgage 
was declined. 
However, I think Birmingham Midshires should have removed the adverse data once it was 
aware of the circumstance that led to the arrears. Not doing so has caused Mr M trouble and 
upset. Mr M didnt want to go through a mortgage application process until the adverse data 
was removed, which is understandable. His application could be declined, or his options 
might be limited meaning hed have to take out a more expensive mortgage. Without taking out a mortgage, Mr M cant buy a house for his family to live in, and theyve 
continued to live in his parents house. His parents have died and he cant pay his sibling 
their share of the value of his fathers house while his family live there. Mr M says this has 
caused him embarrassment and caused difficulties in his family relationships. I think Mr M 
should be compensated for this. 
Mr M sought legal advice to help with his complaint to this service. We offer an informal 
dispute resolution service and customers dont usually need legal advice to use our service. 
Mr M hasnt explained why legal advice was reasonably necessary for him to use our 
service. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair to require Birmingham Midshires to 
compensate him for his legal costs. And while Mr M says hes not been able to apply for car 
finance or credit cards he hasnt provided evidence this led to financial loss. I cant fairly 
require Birmingham Midshires to pay compensation for financial loss without this. 
Having considered what Mr M has said, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Birmingham Midshires to pay compensation of £500 for the upset caused, and which has 
gone on for nearly two years.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Birmingham Midshires) to:
remove the information about missed payments and arrears between June and 
December 2018 from Mr Ms credit files; and
pay compensation of £500 to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman