DRN-2315266
The complaint
Mrs O complains about AXA Insurance UK Plc handling of her Buildings Insurance claim.
Mrs O is being represented by Ms S  so I will refer to her in my decision.
All references to AXA also include their agents.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms S is unhappy with the amount of time she had to chase AXA for settlement. Ive 
reviewed emails and notes of the contact between AXA and Ms S during the claim 
however I cant see anything that persuades me AXA caused any avoidable delays 
It had been confirmed by the inspector asbestos would be of little risk to occupants. 
AXA said they told Ms S this during their visit but also accepted they couldve done 
more to make the low risk clearer to her
Ms S is unhappy AXA left Mrs O in the property  particularly given that she is 
elderly. Ms S says Ms O later became ill and believes it was related to this. AXA said 
Ms S told them Mrs O was staying with her. Ive listened to a call between AXA and 
Ms S from September 2019, in the early stages of the claim, and Im satisfied Ms S 
did tell AXA Mrs O would stay with her. So, because they were told Mrs O wasnt in 
the property, I dont think AXA acted unreasonably here.
I realise Ms S is unhappy with the amount of compensation recommended by the 
investigator as she doesnt think it goes far enough to recognise the impact this 
matter had on Mrs O. But, taking everything into consideration, I think an award of 
£100 compensation is fair and it reasonably reflects the inconvenience Mrs O has 
been caused
For the reasons above, I uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Putting things right
AXA should pay Mrs O £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I uphold Mrs Os complaint.
To put things right AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mrs O £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman