DRN-2944907
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Clarkewood Limited (trading as Financial Justice) 
charged them fees for a successful PPI claim, even though theyd never received any refund 
of PPI.  And, although, they said theyd cancel the invoice, that didnt happen.
What happened
In early 2021, Mr and Mrs G received a demand from Clarkewood for payment of £193.24.  
They didnt know what the payment was for, so they phoned Clarkewood.  They were told 
that the money was the fee due for successfully recovering mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) from a company Ill call B.
Mr and Mrs G had never received any money from B.  So they contacted B for more 
information.  B said theyd refunded PPI in late November 2018.  But, because Mrs G had 
been in an individual voluntary arrangement (IVA) at the time, and B was one of her 
creditors, theyd offset the refund against what they were owed.  B sent Mr and Mrs G a copy 
of the letter to they sent to Clarkewood in November 2018, explaining this.
Mr and Mrs G say that, when they next contacted Clarkewood, Clarkewood said theyd close 
the matter if B wrote to them again confirming the position.  B sent confirmation to Mr and 
Mrs G, which they forwarded to Clarkewood.  But, instead of closing the matter, Clarkewood 
continued to pursue the fee, and threatened to instruct debt collectors if Mr and Mrs G didnt 
pay.
Mr and Mrs G complained to Clarkewood.  But Clarkewood didnt reply, so Mr and Mrs G 
brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator contacted Clarkewood several times to get their business file.  Clarkewood 
didnt reply.  So the investigator came to his view on the complaint based on the information 
provided by Mr and Mrs G.
He said hed have expected a claims management company, such as Clarkewood, to check 
whether their client had been subject to an IVA or bankruptcy.  And if they had, hed expect 
Clarkewood to have explained the impact that would have on a claim, so the client could 
decide if they wanted to make one.  He thought it was unlikely Clarkewood had done that 
because he didnt believe that Mr and Mrs G wouldve agreed to pursue a claim from which 
they knew they wouldnt benefit.  
So our investigator concluded that it wasnt fair that Mr and Mrs G should pay Clarkewoods 
fee and should cancel their invoice.  And he said they should pay Mr and Mrs G £75 
compensation for the trouble and upset Clarkewood had caused them. 
Because Clarkewood didnt reply, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Like our investigator, Ive been limited in my consideration by Clarkewood not providing their 
business file, or any comments on his view.  But, like him, I think its unlikely that 
Clarkewood investigated Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances and explained to them the 
consequences of being in an IVA.  
I dont think its likely that, if theyd known they wouldnt benefit from any refund, Mr and Mrs 
G wouldve signed an agreement to pay fees to Clarkewood.  And, in the absence of any 
evidence from Clarkewood to contradict that, I think thats a fair conclusion to draw.
Putting things right
On the basis of the above, I agree with our investigator its unfair that Clarkewood should 
charge Mr and Mrs G for obtaining a refund from B.  So Clarkewood should cancel their 
invoice for £193.24.  
And its clear that being pursued for payment, and having to contact B themselves to get 
copy letters sent to Clarkewood put Mr and Mrs G to trouble and caused them upset.  I 
agree with our investigator they should be compensated for that.  And I agree the right 
amount of compensation for this is £75. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about Clarkewood 
Limited (trading as Financial Justice) and directing them to:
Cancel their invoice for £193.24; and
Pay £75 compensation for the trouble and upset they caused Mr and Mrs G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman