DRN-2841872
The complaint
Ms Cs complaint arises from a claim she made under her mobile phone insurance policy
with Assurant general Insurance Limited.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 20 May 2020, part of which is copied below: 
On 19 October 2020, Ms C made a claim under the policy after she lost her phone. 
Assurant sent her a replacement phone two days later. When she received the phone, Ms C 
realised it was a refurbished second-hand phone. She also says it was faulty, as she had the 
battery tested and it was not at adequate capacity. Ms C complained to Assurant and asked 
for a new phone.
Assurant told Ms C it is entitled under the policy to provide refurbished phones as
replacements and the phone it had provided her with came with a 12 month warranty.
Assurant offered to replace the faulty phone but said it would be with another refurbished
one. Ms C said refurbished versions of her phone were on the market for around £60, which
is less than the £100 excess shed paid to make the claim. Ms C therefore asked for the
claim to be cancelled and her excess to be refunded.
Assurant agreed to do so but told Ms C it could not process the refund until it had received
the phone back from her. It said it would send Ms C a pre-paid envelope so she could post it
back. Ms C was unhappy with this, so it was agreed it would send a courier to collect the
phone from her workplace. However, the courier didnt collect the phone as arranged on 23
October 2020 and Ms C had to chase this up with Assurant. It arranged for another
collection the next day but this collection didnt happen either. Assurant agreed to send
another courier out late that afternoon but after Ms C called to chase this again, she was told
the collection could not take place after all. Another arranged collection for 25 October 2020
also did not take please. Ms C says she had to work late to make up the time she spent on
the phone with Assurant trying to sort this out each time the collection didnt take place.
Ms C says she was then going away for several weeks, so collection was rearranged for
around six weeks later. Assurant agreed to refund the excess in the meantime and offered
Ms C £30 compensation.
Ms C is very unhappy with the way this was handled. She has made a number of
submissions in support of her complaint, which Ive summarised below:
Assurant said the refund would take up to five working days to go through, even after
it received the phone back. Money can be transferred almost instantly and she
shouldnt have had to wait just because of Assurants processes but it refused to
reimburse the money until it got the phone back.
This all added to the time that she was without a phone.
There was no written warranty provided with the replacement phone, even though
Assurant told her afterwards it came with a warranty.
If Assurant doesnt send anyone new phones, then it is making a profit on the
insurance excess.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend it be upheld as he
thought Assurant had acted in line with the policy terms.
Ms C does not accept the investigators assessment. She finds it unfathomable that the
investigator found in Assurants favour when its negligence in sending her a faulty phone
and then failing to collect it several times has been established.
As the investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The excess is a set amount that the policyholder has to contribute to the cost of the claim
before the insurance will operate. So if the cost of the claim is less than the excess, the
insurer would be obliged to refund the balance. Or a policyholder might decide that it isnt
worth making a claim if the claim is not worth more than the excess.
Its clear Ms C was expecting a brand new replacement phone, so she thought it was worth
going ahead with the claim and paying the excess. However, as with most (if not all) mobile
phone insurance policies, this one provides that any replacement phone may be provided
from refurbished stock. This is not inherently unreasonable, as it is a like-for-like insurance
policy, rather than new-for-old. So Assurant is entitled to send a refurbished handset and
any refurbished ones come with a warranty as well. However, they should not be faulty.
These terms should have all been presented to Ms C when she took out the policy. As the
policy was sold by Ms Cs bank as part of a package of benefits with her bank account, it is
her bank that should have done this. I cant therefore consider any failure to explain this at
the point of sale in this decision against Assurant.
However, Assurant like all insurers are also required to treat customers fairly and to provide
them at all times with information that is clear fair and not misleading. In the context of
Ms Cs case I think this means it should have told her when she claimed that it would provide
her with a refurbished phone, especially as the policy terms only say that it may provide a
refurbished phone. If it had done this, Ms C could have made an informed decision about
whether or not to go ahead with the claim. If she had been told this at the outset,
it seems likely to me she would have decided that it was not worth going through with an
insurance claim and would have opted to replace the phone herself.
Because she did not have this opportunity, Ms C was put to some unnecessary and
avoidable trouble, including waiting for a replacement to be delivered; arranging for it to be
returned to Assurant, which involved several missed collections and several phone calls.
Ms C was also out-of-pocket for the excess and was without a phone for longer than
necessary. I therefore think that some compensation for this is warranted. In my opinion, the
total sum of £100 compensation is appropriate. (This includes the £30 already offered but
not received.)
My provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and require it topay Ms C the total sum of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by
its handling of her claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information they 
want considered. 
Ms C has responded and confirmed that while I have not made the award she had wanted, 
she accepts my provisional decision. 
Assurant has also responded. It does not accept my decision. It says that it is Ms Cs 
responsibility to read the policy documentation and they clearly state that a replacement 
under the policy might be a refurbished one. Ms C ought therefore to have been aware of 
this and it is not responsible for her assumption that shed get a new phone. Assurant also 
says that any claims handler wouldnt be able to tell a policyholder if they will be provided 
with a new or refurbished phone; they would process the claim and order a replacement and 
would only know the IMEI number (and therefore the origins of the phone) when one has 
been picked probably the next working day. 
Assurant says the only error it made was one failed collection and the £30 offered for this is 
fair and reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says that replacement phones may be refurbished. Therefore it would be a 
reasonable assumption by any policyholder that they may also be brand new. Which 
replacement is being offered is relevant to a policyholders decision whether or not to go 
ahead with a claim and pay the policy excess. 
As set out in my provisional decision, Assurant has a regulatory obligation to provide its 
customers with clear, fair and not misleading information at all times. I remain of the opinion 
that this includes telling policyholders how it intends to settle a claim, especially when the 
policy provides that there may be different options. Just because the policy says a 
replacement phone may be refurbished that does not negate the need to tell the consumer 
at the relevant time in the process how their claim is actually going to be settled.  
Assurant says that its claims-handlers wouldnt be able to tell its customers this information 
at the relevant time. This appears to be because of the way it deals with its suppliers. Any 
claims-handlers inability to provide that information, because of the way the business 
operates, does not affect the responsibility on Assurant to do so. 
Whether Ms Cs claim was going to be fulfilled by providing a new or refurbished 
replacement phone was pertinent to her ability to make an informed decision as to whether 
to go ahead with this insurance claim or not. And, as set out in my provisional decision, as 
the cost of a refurbished phone was less than the excess, I dont think she would have gone 
ahead with the claim if she had known she was getting a refurbished phone. I therefore 
remain of the opinion that Assurant should compensate Ms C for the trouble this caused her. 
My final decisionI uphold this complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited and require it to
pay Ms C the total sum of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by
its handling of her claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman