DRN-2783141
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc has recorded a Cifas marker against his name. He 
disputes the transactions that took place on his account.
What happened
A cheque dated 26 April 2017 for the sum of £9,029.09 was credited into Mr As account on 
28 April 2017. Following this, several transactions took place until the account was blocked 
by HSBC in the early hours of 29 April 2017. HSBC eventually closed the account on 11 
May 2017 without notice.
Mr A told us around the same time as these events he lost his card, when he left his bag on 
a train along with his PINsentry device and his mobile. He says inside his bag he had his 
banking details. Mr A said he believed a third party then used these details to access his 
account and deposit a cheque and make payments.
HSBC has a call recording from 26 April 2017  two days before the cheque was deposited. 
During this call Mr A says he has lost his phone (although he doesnt mention he has lost his 
other banking details during this call) and asked to reset his secure key.
Mr A disputes the version of events detailed by HSBC. He says HSBC has not kept the 
CCTV footage which would have confirmed whether he made the payment. He feels HSBC 
has lied about the following:
The date of Mr A requesting a renewal for internet banking.
Following the fraudulent transactions there was a phone call made at a branch where 
Mr A reported all of this and HSBC says he ended the call; he didnt.
HSBC has no further record of Mr A disputing these transactions until 2020 despite 
the fact throughout this period he has attempted to raise this with them.
HSBC initially submitted the credit card payment that it made as evidence he was 
complicit in the fraudulent activity in an attempt to dupe this Service into believing 
HSBCs version of events.
He has never been to the branch the cheque was paid in - so again further incorrect 
details.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. And Ill explain why below.
The marker HSBC has filed with Cifas is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to record a 
marker like this, HSBC isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt (therefore it doesnt 
need to categorically show) that Mr A is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but it must show 
that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. Cifas says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and] 
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that either there was an 
attempt to put fraudulent funds into Mr As account or fraudulent funds have entered Mr As 
account and were either moved on or retained. And secondly, the bank will need to have 
strong evidence to show that Mr A was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent 
payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone who was unwitting. There 
should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. 
Im satisfied based on the information provided by HSBC it has sufficient evidence that the 
cheque paid into Mr As account on the 28 April 2017 was fraudulent. By this I mean it was 
unauthorised by the drawing account holder. Im therefore satisfied that HSBC have met the 
first pillar to load a marker. But this isnt sufficient on its own for HSBC to load a marker. I 
also need to be satisfied that Mr A was complicit in the fraud, so in summary was 
deliberately dishonest and knew the cheque was fraudulent. So, Ive moved on to consider 
this.
The relevant finding for me to make, is not specifically what I conclude was most likely to 
have been Mr As intentions and actions in relation to the funds. Rather, my role is to 
determine whether I think HSBC were entitled to escalate its concerns to Cifas based on the 
available evidence. I think, on balance, HSBC were entitled to do so. I say this because:
I cant see any benefit to a fraudster in paying a fraudulent cheque into a random 
unsuspecting account.
Mr A says he lost his card, mobile and banking details and that these details were 
used to access his account for the fraudulent activity on 28 and 29 April 2017. 
However, HSBC has provided a call recording from 26 April 2017 when Mr A 
mentions he has lost his mobile phone and asks to reset his secure key. It seems 
more likely than not that this was the date Mr A also lost all his other banking related 
details on the train. So, the fraudster would have needed to know the new details not 
the details he lost on the train.
I find it strange Mr A mentions he had actually lost his mobile for a second time in 
response to the investigators view. This isnt something he had previously mentioned 
to us or the bank and there is no record of this being reported. These inconsistencies 
undermine the credibility of Mr As testimony.
Mr A has not given us any plausible scenario where the new details were 
compromised. Whilst I accept it is possible, I think it would be unusual to lose a 
second mobile phone within two days of losing the first one.The banks records from the time show numerous attempts to contact Mr A during 
May 2017 via various communication methods. This was a serious matter and the 
bank would have urgently wanted to make contact with Mr A. The account was in 
overdraft and Mr A owed the bank money - so I really cant understand why a bank 
would make up these attempted contact logs and simply just not make any attempt to 
contact Mr A.
Mr A knew there was a bad debt associated with the account from his call with the 
bank in October 2017 but there is insufficient evidence to indicate Mr A made any 
further contact with the bank until 2020. Again, I can see no reason why the bank 
would not log details or ignore Mr As attempts to contact it when he owed them 
money.
Due to the passage of time, HSBC no longer has any CCTV footage, but I dont think this 
would necessarily help Mr A - as a known third party could have deposited the cheque on his 
behalf.
I understand that Mr A told the investigator that he didnt make the credit card payment on
12 May 2017, which HSBC originally raised as a reason the fraudulent activity couldnt have 
been anyone else. I agree Mr A didnt make this payment, as his account was blocked 
before this. In the letter sent to Mr A advising of account closure, it also advises him his 
credit card account will be closed, so I agree with the investigator that it seems likely this 
payment was made by HSBC to settle the credit card balance. This finding has no impact on 
the overall outcome here.
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think HSBC had sufficient evidence to conclude it 
was likely Mr A was complicit in receiving the fraudulent funds. So, I think HSBC has met the 
requirements to record the Cifas marker and I wont be asking it to remove it. Ive also 
thought about whether HSBC closed Mr As account fairly, and Im satisfied it did. On 11 
May 2017 HSBC sent Mr A a letter saying that his account would be closed immediately. Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of Mr As account and Im satisfied that HSBC acted 
within these terms when closing his account. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr A but for the reasons above, I cant fairly say that 
HSBC acted unreasonably in registering the fraud marker against Mr A or closing his 
account, and I wont be asking them to remove the fraud marker it has registered.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman