DRN-3011996
The complaint
Miss F complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement
with N.I.I.B. Group Limited, trading as Northridge Finance (Northridge).  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Miss F took receipt of a used car in January 2019. She financed the deal through a hire
purchase agreement with Northridge. At the point of supply the car had already completed
13,324 miles and was about two and a half years old.
The car was serviced by the dealership before supply.
In June 2020 a warning light illuminated on the dashboard telling Miss F to stop using the
car. It was taken to a manufacturers franchised dealership and they noted the damage to
the engine and said, we suspect the wrong oil has been used.
It was established with the dealership that they had used the wrong oil, but the dealership
refused to strip the engine and diagnose the fault in more detail as they said Miss F had
been driving the car for about 16 months and they could not therefore be held responsible.
Miss F eventually had the car repaired by the franchised dealership and the cost was
covered by the supplying dealership. But she explained that the car didnt seem the same
so she part exchanged it for another vehicle and her finance agreement with Northridge was
settled in full on 9 September 2020.
Our investigator supported Miss Fs complaint. He thought there was evidence that the
wrong oil was in the car when it was supplied to Miss F and that she had therefore
demonstrated the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. He said in those
circumstances wed usually ask the business to take back the car and unwind the agreement
but as that had now been done, he considered what the most appropriate course of action
should be. He thought Northridge should refund the £1,000 negative equity that was left on
the finance agreement when Miss F sourced her new car and that they should refund one
monthly instalment as Miss F had been without her car for a month whilst it was being 
repaired. He didnt think it was fair for Miss F to have paid for a £319 service plan that hadnt
been carried out correctly and he thought Northridge should refund that. He also thought
Miss F had been inconvenienced by matters so he suggested Northridge pay her £300
compensation.
Northridge disagreed with the investigators view. They said there was no evidence that the
wrong oil had caused the problems with the car and they disagreed with the remedy the
investigator had suggested. They didnt understand why they were being asked to pay the
negative equity when it was Miss Fs decision to part exchange the car and it seemed to be
working well at that point. They said they would be prepared to pay Miss F one monthly
instalment of £214.49 and £300 compensation. But Miss F didnt accept that offer and the
complaint was referred for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that there is sufficient evidence this car was not of satisfactory
quality when supplied but I dont currently agree with the redress he proposed. Please let me
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss F acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Northridge, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss F. The car here was about two
and a half years old and had already completed about 13,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable
person would expect it to show some limited signs of wear. But I dont think a reasonable
person would think a car was of satisfactory quality of its engine needed replacing after only
about 27,000 miles. I think they would consider the car not to have proven to be suitably
durable.
The relevant legislation says we should consider whether a car has been suitably durable
when we think about whether it was of satisfactory quality. So, I dont think this car was of
satisfactory quality.
And even if Im wrong about the car not being suitably durable I think there is evidence that it
was faulty when it was supplied, when Northridge were responsible for its quality. Thats
because Im persuaded by the franchised dealerships comments that the wrong oil was
used. The supplying dealership explained that type 5w-30 was used but the technical 
specification sheet says the right type is Ow-30. The franchised dealership, who I think its
fair to say are experts on this model of car, have explained that they think the faults with the
car are a result of the wrong oil being used.
The supplying dealership dont think there was that much difference in the oil. In an email
they sent to Northridge in April 2020 they said:
the different grades relate to a slight thickness in viscosity and a difference in temperature
tolerances, and in our managers opinion would not have led to an engine failure as
diagnosed. This Peugeot Engine has a weakness at manufacturer and it is our opinion has
not been caused by OIL GRADE used (sic).Im not persuaded by those comments as I think the experts on this car are the
manufacturing franchised dealership. They are better placed to decide on what oil should be
used, are more independent of this matter, and theres no dispute that the technical
specification does not call for the use of 5w-30 oil.
I note that the supplying dealership suggest the problem is caused by the Peugeot engine
having a weakness at manufacture. Ill not consider that any further as I think there is
already significant evidence this car was not of satisfactory quality. But, if there was a
weakness in this type of Peugeot engine at manufacture that would be further evidence
something was wrong with the car when it was supplied and yet another reason why
Northridge should take some action.
So, I agree with the investigator that this car was not of satisfactory quality, but I dont
currently agree with the resolution he suggested.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a car that is faulty when
supplied. Whilst there was a delay before the repair was authorised the car was repaired at
no cost to Miss F.
Miss F has explained that after the repair was completed she part exchanged the vehicle as
it didnt seem the same but I dont think shes provided evidence that the repair was
unsuccessful and there was anything wrong with the car that forced the sale.
Im therefore persuaded that Northridge have done what the legislation required of them as
they have completed a repair at no cost to Miss F.
But Miss F was unable to use her car for a month and wasnt provided with a courtesy car.
So, its not fair she was paying to finance the car during that period. Northridge should
therefore refund the monthly finance instalment Miss F paid in June 2020 when the car was
being repaired and they should add 8% interest to that refund as Miss F has been deprived
of that money.
Miss F has clearly been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to demonstrate that the
car was of unsatisfactory quality and argue the point with the business when the dealership
refused to consider the complaint any further. Shes also had to escalate her complaint to
this service, and shes explained that she had to arrange alternative forms of transport when
her car was off the road. In those circumstances I think Northridge should pay her £300 in
compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
Miss F paid for servicing upfront. The cost of £319 was included in the finance agreement
and, as the service she received was clearly not what was specified by the manufacturer as
the wrong oil was used, I think the business should refund the service cost and add interest
as, again, Miss F has been deprived of that money. But I dont think Northridge need to 
refund the negative equity Miss F incurred when she settled the agreement early. It was 
Miss Fs decision to trade in the car and Ive not seen sufficient evidence that the repair 
wasnt satisfactorily completed.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above I am expecting to uphold this complaint in part and to tell
N.I.I.B. Group Limited to:
refund Junes monthly finance instalment in respect of the lack of use Miss F has had
from the car. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement;pay Miss F £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced;
refund the cost of the service agreement (£319) and add 8% simple interest per year
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F and Northridge accepted my decision.  
Putting things right
As both parties accepted my provisional decision Ive seen no need to change it. My 
provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and to tell N.I.I.B. Group 
Limited to:
refund Junes monthly finance instalment in respect of the lack of use Miss F has had
from the car. Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of
settlement;
pay Miss F £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes
experienced;
refund the cost of the service agreement (£319) and add 8% simple interest per year
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman