DRN-2773766
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited hasnt offered a fair amount to 
settle a claim he made on his home insurance policy, following a blocked drain.
What happened
Mr B had an issue with a drain overflowing. He contacted a drainage company and it carried 
out repairs for £2,400. The drainage companys report explains a collapsed pipe was found, 
which was repaired. Three photos were included with the report. These were of a lined pipe, 
the open excavation, and the resurfaced excavation.
Mr B went on to make a claim on his home insurance policy, for his costs. Lloyds appointed 
its own drainage contractor to assess the claim. In respect of the photos, Lloyds contractor 
noted there was no mention of a lined pipe in Mr Bs report; and it said when it contacted 
Mr Bs contractor about this, it confirmed the collapsed section was excavated. Lloyds 
contractor also said Mr Bs contractor was to provide further images, but nothing was 
forthcoming.
Due to a lack of evidence in respect of the damage, Lloyds contractor recommended the 
claim be declined. However, it also said its costs for replacing an isolated section of pipe 
would have been £391, so the claim could be settled on that basis. As a result, Lloyds 
offered Mr B £391, less his £150 policy excess. Mr B was unhappy about this.
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. Mr B remained unhappy, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the overflowing drain, I dont doubt that Mr B did what he felt was right at the time, by 
going ahead with the works. However, the onus is still on him to substantiate his claim. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr B, but based on the information Ive seen, I cant reasonably decide 
Lloyds needs to increase its claim settlement offer. Mr Bs contractors photos dont show 
damage; and its invoice far exceeds Lloyds estimated costs for the repairs it can, in my 
view, reasonably conclude were undertaken. 
I acknowledge there is some dispute about whether Lloyds or its contractor had contacted 
Mr Bs contractor for further information. I also understand that Lloyds compensated Mr B 
£125 under a separate complaint, for delays in chasing information. However, importantly 
here, Ive seen that Lloyds asked Mr Bs contractor for CCTV footage and photos of the 
damage, and for a site plan. In its email, Lloyds also told Mr Bs contractor that it was 
advised a small section of pipe was replaced, so its £391 was based on an isolated 
excavation. Mr Bs contractor responded, confirming it couldnt provide any further 
information.
Mr B has prejudiced Lloyds position by going ahead with his own repairs, without giving it an 
opportunity to investigate. I appreciate that wasnt his intention, but under the policy terms, 
Mr B is required to notify Lloyds of a potential claim before incurring costs. In my view, the 
invoice costs havent been sufficiently substantiated, or explained. So, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds acted unfairly.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman