DRN-3215992
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) declined her claim 
for damaged sofas.
What happened
Mrs N purchased a warranty in December 2019 to cover her sofas for leather stains, 
accidental damage and structural issues. 
In August 2021 she submitted a claim to Acasta as she had noticed the seams were coming 
apart, the leather was peeling and fading and there was a loss of padding in parts.
Acasta arranged for a furniture technician to inspect the sofas. His report says in his opinion 
the damage was caused through the use of the items and not a manufacturing fault.
Based on this report Acasta determined the damage was in relation to wear and tear and 
therefore wasnt covered under the policy.
Mrs N referred her concerns to this service, our investigator felt Acasta had declined the 
claim fairly, but Mrs N disagreed. She said the sofas are well looked after with only two 
people using it most of the time. She also said the sofas were only 20 months old at the time 
so doesnt understand how it could be wear and tear, her last sofa lasted several years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I'm not upholding Mrs N's complaint. I know this isn't the 
outcome she hoped for, but I'll explain my reasoning below.
The policy terms and conditions clearly set out what is and isnt covered under the policy. 
And whilst the policy may refer to various scenarios that would be covered such as cracking, 
fading and general upholstery issues it also specifies what is excluded. 
The exclusion Acasta have relied on says:
What is not covered - stains & damage that is consistent with wear and tear,
stains & damage or anything that happens gradually including dye transfer
The technicians report concluded that the damage to the sofas wasnt due to a 
manufacturing issue but due to the general use of the them. Having reviewed the report and 
the photos I dont think it was unfair of Acasta to decline the claim for the reasons they did.
Given how long Mrs N had the sofas, I can understand her concern with this conclusion. 
However, its my understanding that some leather sofas can last between 2-5 years 
depending on varying factors such as cleaning, the way its used and the type and quality of 
the leather. 
I appreciate Mrs Ns sofas were younger than this at 20 months at the time of inspection, 
and I have taken account of Mrs N view that the areas of damage couldnt have been due to 
wear and tear. But based on the technicians report, I think its possible the damage could 
have occurred over time. The technician is more equipped to assess the damage and has 
concluded its due to use over time and I have found his report to be persuasive.
Overall, Im satisfied Acasta reviewed Mrs Ns claim fairly, they appointed an independent 
expert to assess the sofas and declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions. 
My final decision
For reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman