DRN-3819643
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. 
Background
In February 2022, Mr Hs account received two credits of £100. The funds were immediately 
withdrawn from a cash machine. Monzo subsequently received a notification from the third-
party bank, responsible for sending the payments to Mr Hs account, stating that the payee 
of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Monzo decided to block Mr Hs account 
pending a review. As a result of the review, it decided to close to close the account and also 
record a fraud prevention marker against Mr H.
Mr H Was unhappy with this and complained. Monzo looked at Mr Hs complaint and didnt 
uphold it. As Mr H remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr H is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Hs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr H was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr H allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Hs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Hs account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Monzo did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Hs 
account in February 2022, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr H was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Mr H has said that he knows nothing about the activity which took place on his account 
because he lost his phone and his card, with the personal identification number (PIN), was 
in his phone case. Mr H said that he wasnt able to stop his card because he didnt have his 
phone to access the Monzo app to be able to do this. He said the first he realised anything 
about the activity was when he received a visit from the police.
Ive thought about what Mr H has said. But Im afraid that what hes said simply isnt 
plausible for a number of reasons. Firstly, Mr H never mentioned anything about leaving his 
PIN with the card in his phone case when he first spoke to Monzo about this matter. This is 
despite being questioned on how might it have been possible for a third-party t have 
withdrawn the funds at a cash machine. 
Secondly, I find it somewhat odd that Mr H would leave a card and PIN, for an account he 
didnt really appear to be using and he didnt have funds in, in his phone case. This is 
especially the case as Mr H says he had other accounts, which he presumably, used more 
regularly and which he doesnt appear to have been carrying the cards for in the same way. 
Furthermore, Mr H has been asked to evidence the discussion that hes said he had with the 
police. But hes not been able to provide any police reports or reference numbers. And this is 
despite the fact that given the sums involved here, it would be highly unusual for the police 
to visit someone in this way without the bank concerned having made a report in the first 
place. 
Finally, even if I were to accept that Mr H did lose his card in the way he says he did, for the 
avoidance of doubt I wish to make it clear that I do not, I would have expected Mr H to have 
taken steps to have reported the loss. This is especially as he would have lost his phone as 
well as his card and he would have known that he left his PIN with his card if this is what he 
did. Im afraid that there a number of discrepancies which mean that Mr Hs version of 
events simply isnt credible.    
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available evidence is 
sufficient to conclude that Mr H was not an unwitting participant in fraudulent funds being 
received into his account and then being withdrawn. So I dont think that Monzo acted 
unfairly towards Mr H when recording a fraud marker against him. And Im therefore not 
upholding Mr Hs complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope Mr H will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman