DRN-4068279
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited declined a claim made on a private 
health insurance policy (the policy).
Miss P is being represented in this complaint, but, for ease, Ive referred to all submissions 
made on her behalf as being made by her.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has an obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim. For the reasons set out below, I dont think AXA has 
unfairly or unreasonably declined Miss Ps claim.
The policy doesnt cover treatment that isnt medically necessary or that can be 
considered a personal choice. Nor does it cover cosmetic treatment, surgery or 
products.
Miss P had experienced hair loss/a bald patch which had worsened over time. 
She was referred to a dermatologist by her GP in 2022. 
The dermatologists report dated November 2022 reflects that Miss P had a large 
patch of alopecia areata and that this was likely to be a stress-related reaction. 
She was advised of treatment options, and its reflected that she was going to 
manage by applying a topical ointment (to the affected areas). I dont think AXA 
has acted unfairly by relying on the advice of its chief medical officer to conclude 
that the lotion was to improve the appearance relating to hair loss rather than 
treat the underlying cause of hair loss. And, so, the referral was for cosmetic 
purposes and not medically necessary.  
Ive taken into account what Miss P says about the cause of her hair loss and that 
its impacted her mental health, leading her to miss several days of school. Im 
very sorry to hear this. But I dont think AXA has unfairly concluded that the aim 
of seeing a dermatologist would be restore the appearance of the hair rather than 
dealing with any underlying condition causing the hair loss such as stress and 
anxiety. 
Miss P has recently said that that the hair loss was likely caused by an auto-
immune disorder, but the medical evidence provided doesnt support this or 
establish why, if this was the case, the referral was made to a dermatologist 
rather than another medical specialist  as AXA has said. The initial referral letter 
from her GP simply asks for a review of Miss P and notes that she was iron 
deficient and taking iron supplements.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman