DRN-2510010
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that National House-Building Council, trading as NHBC, has 
declined a claim under their Buildmark policy for damage to their home. 
What happened
In February 2019, Mr and Mrs B made a claim under section three of their Buildmark policy 
for damage to their home relating to an issue with their flooring. In March 2019, NHBC 
accepted the claim following an initial investigation, but following a further investigation 
which took place in September 2019, NHBC changed its position and declined the claim. 
NHBC said the main cause of the damage wasnt a failure to meet technical requirements 
but rather a lack of ventilation in the sub-floor void, which it believed had led to dry rot 
forming around the timbers. It said the air bricks used in the walls had been blocked, but that 
these werent a load-bearing element of the wall, as the property would remain fully 
supported if the air bricks were removed. It said the air bricks werent therefore covered and 
that a lack of ventilation wasnt a defect covered under section three of the policy.
NHBC recognised it shouldve arrived at the decision to decline the claim sooner, and for 
that reason it offered Mr and Mrs B £5,000 in compensation. Mr and Mrs B were unhappy 
with this, so referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the case and recommended that it should be upheld. She said 
the NHBC technical standards hadnt been met during the build, due to a lack of adequate 
ventilation. And that as there wasnt anything in the policy excluding defective air blocks or 
inadequate ventilation, NHBC should accept the claim. 
NHBC disagreed with our investigators assessment, so the complaint has come to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
In order for me to determine whether NHBC must accept Mr and Mrs Bs claim, I have to 
consider whether theres been damage to an area covered by the policy and caused by a 
defect as defined in the policy terms.
So Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs Bs policy says. It states, under section three, that NHBC 
will pay for and put right: any physical damage to your Home which is caused by a Defect in 
respect of any of the following parts of your house, bungalow, maisonette or flat, or its 
garage or other permanent outbuildings:
a) foundations;
b) load-bearing walls;
c) non load-bearing partition walls
Defect is defined in the policy booklet as The breach of any mandatory NHBC 
Requirement by the Builder or anyone employed by or acting for the Builder.  
NHBC further defines NHBC Requirement as The mandatory Technical Requirements that 
we publish in the NHBC Standards and the Standards for Conversions and Renovations 
which are in force either:
a. in the case of a Home with newly built foundations, when the Builder begins the 
construction of the foundations; or
b. in any other case, when the Builder begins construction, conversion or renovation of the 
Home.
The damage to Mr and Mrs Bs converted property is extensive. The evidence shows dry rot 
which has affected the ground floor timbers of the home and significant fungal decay, which 
came to light after NHBCs initial investigation. 
Ive considered first whether the damage was caused by a defect as defined by the policy. 
The mandatory Technical Requirements include at R1: Work shall comply with all relevant 
Building Regulations and other statutory requirements relating to the completed construction 
work and its this Technical Requirement which I think has been breached here. 
The requirements include, among other things, a stipulation that building work will be carried 
out in accordance with the relevant "Approved Documents" - which include government 
guidance on how to comply with the Building Regulations. Proper account must be taken of 
the "use and location of materials, products and building systems". And materials, products 
and building systems will usually be acceptable if they comply with NHBC standards or 
British Standards (where used for critical functions, including services) or (if used for non-
critical functions) either those standards or the manufacturer's recommendations. I would 
think NHBC regard ventilation as a critical function. But in any event, the builder was 
required to comply with NHBC standards or British Standards - or if not, with the 
manufacturer's instructions when it came to ventilation systems throughout the property. I 
appreciate there is no apparent requirement for ventilation to a sub-floor void, but as I 
explain below, I do not think the defect in this case applies only to the sub-floor void area. 
The reports by Britannia Preservations and Peter Cox state that the defect has been caused 
by a lack of ventilation. But having considered both reports carefully, I dont think I can safely 
conclude that the lack of ventilation isnt a result of something else which may be covered by 
the policy. 
By NHBCs own admission in its letter dated 15 April 2020 to Mr and Mrs B, the air bricks 
are installed within the load-bearing wall. And its not disputed by either party that the defect 
relates to the air bricks, which NHBC says have been blocked. NHBC suggests this is 
sometimes carried out by the home-owner. However, I have no reason to think Mr and Mrs B 
blocked them, as I find their testimony that theyve had no access to the area persuasive. So 
I think its more likely that the air bricks were blocked at some point during the build. And as 
the issue with ventilation stems from the blocking of the air bricks  which have been 
installed within the load-bearing wall, Im satisfied that the defect is within an area covered 
by the policy.
NHBC has said that because the air bricks dont provide a load-bearing function, the part of 
the home thats affected doesnt fall under load-bearing walls or any other part of the home 
defined in the policy and for which the policy provides cover. And that for this reason, 
together with the fact that the expert reports say the cause of damage is a lack of ventilation 
which isnt covered, NHBC says the claim cannot be accepted.
Im not convinced by NHBCs argument. Firstly, the policy doesnt specifically exclude ventilation issues. It also doesnt say that the defect to a load-bearing wall must involve an 
element of the wall which is essential in order for the wall to carry out its load-bearing 
function. I note the policy also provides cover for damage caused by a defect to non load-
bearing partition walls, the load-bearing part of the floors and retaining walls necessary for 
the structural stability of the home. So I think NHBCs restrictive interpretation is unfair in this 
case and I think its most likely that the intention of the wording was to cover any aspect of 
the load-bearing wall with which there is a defect  not just those parts of the wall which 
provide a load-bearing function.
It follows therefore, that Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Bs claim is for damage to an area covered 
by the policy and caused by a defect as defined in the policy terms.
NHBC has said it wont pay for Mr and Mrs Bs legal fees because the policy says 
professional fees are excluded unless reasonably incurred with NHBCs written consent. 
While I note what NHBC has said about this, I dont think its fair for Mr and Mrs B to be out 
of pocket in pursuing this claim. So I think would be fair for NHBC to cover the cost of their 
legal fees, which I think were reasonably incurred.
Mr and Mrs B have also said that the claim has caused them a great deal of stress, and 
theyve highlighted some personal and health reasons that have exacerbated the level of 
trouble and upset theyve experienced as a result of NHBC unfairly declining the claim. So Ill 
require NHBC to pay Mr and Mrs B compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Putting things right
NHBC should do the following to put things right for Mr and Mrs B:
Deal with Mr and Mrs Bs claim in line with the terms and conditions of their policy.
Pay Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors fees of £2,379 plus 8% interest on this amount from 
the date Mr and Mrs B paid their fees to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £1,500 compensation for trouble and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct National House-Building Council 
to put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman