DRN-4016582
The complaint
Mr E complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) unfairly registered a fraud marker against 
him. 
What happened
In May 2021, Santander received a fraud report from a third-party bank relating to one of its 
customers accounts, for a payment made from it into Mr Es account. Santander placed 
Mr Es account under review and asked him for proof of entitlement to several payments 
made into his account. 
After speaking to Mr E about this, Santander wrote to Mr E and told him it was closing his 
account down immediately. Around the same time Santander also applied a CIFAS (Credit 
Industry Fraud Avoidance System) misuse of facility marker against him. Mr E says he 
found out about this several months later, after which he complained. 
In its final response, Santander said it acted properly in closing Mr Es account and in 
applying the CIFAS marker. Unhappy with this, Mr E referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigator looked into it. Initially they said the complaint should be upheld as 
they thought Santander had not applied the marker fairly.   
In short, they said this because - based on the information available at that time  they 
thought Mr E had naively trusted someone theyd known for long time to use their account. 
So, they thought Mr E had been the unwitting victim of receiving funds from an illegitimate 
source. They also recommended Santander pay £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter caused him. 
Mr E accepted this, but Santander did not. It made further representations on which our 
Investigator changed their mind and said Mr Es complaint shouldnt be upheld. In other 
words, Santander had applied the marker fairly. 
In summary the key points they made were: 
- Santander has provided a call recording when it called Mr E to ask where the funds 
came from and what they were intended for. Mr E informed Santander the funds 
were intended to pay his rent and were from his sponsor, via a friend of his sponsor. 
Mr E also stated he borrowed money from his friend to pay his rent and then 
transferred the funds he received to pay her back. Mr E told our service he received 
the funds for his friend
- But Mr E had told this service hed received a large payment from his friend, Miss O, 
as theyd lost their bank card and wanted him to hold it for safe keeping until they got 
a new card. And that the same friend, during this time, asked him if they could get 
someone to send him money from their family. This money of around £14,000 was 
then sent back to the friend three days later when theyd sorted their banking issue 
out 
- Out Investigator found Mr E had given conflicting information about the funds to this 
service and Santander. So they didnt think Mr E was being honest about where the 
funds came from and what they were intended for
Mr E did not agree with what our Investigator said. Id like to assure Mr E that Ive carefully 
read everything hes said in response to our Investigators view, even if I dont expressly set 
it out here. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking this approach. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Some of the key point Mr E has made are: 
- Their third-party bank statement shows they transferred £1,000 to their friend 
account on the same day it was received. All funds hed received were from his 
friend, Miss O. To the best of his knowledge all the funds he received were legitimate 
 and were intended for Miss O
- As the call with Santander happened around two years ago, he cant recall details of 
it. But it was unscheduled and was the only time Santander contacted him about this 
matter. His bank apps were frozen wo he couldnt refer to the transactions, nor 
reference his statements, which made his responses understandably unsatisfactory
- His answers show he was unsure about the transactions referred to, and such lumps 
sums are normally sent by his educational sponsors  which at times meant he 
received from unknown individuals given the difficulties with sending international 
payments from his home country
- There are several transactions with Miss O  and they have borrowed and lent 
money to each other on many occasions. So they assumed it was one of these 
transactions Santander was asking about on the phone call
- He is a law-abiding, honest and hardworking citizen and has always lived on 
legitimate funds. And he has shown beyond reasonable doubt that the funds were 
intended for Miss O, and they came into his account because of a security issue with 
her account after which he quickly sent the funds back
- He agrees the information he initially provided Santander about the source of funds 
was inaccurate, but he has since made several attempts to correct this by sending 
evidence related to messages, account statements and a letter from Miss O 
- Mr E said the funds were from his educational sponsor, via an unknown friend of the 
sponsor, for his rent because he was asked why he was receiving large sums of 
money from people he didnt know. Both his accounts were frozen, and he didnt 
want to get into trouble. Nor did he think the funds were from a questionable source, 
and he assumed the issue was with the size of the transactions and people unknown 
to him sending them
- His reluctance on the phone with Santanders agent was not an attempt to conceal 
illicit activity, he was simply trying not to get into trouble for the volume of funds 
entering his account. And he came clean and put forward evidence supporting his 
innocence as soon as Santander mentioned there was an issue with his funds 
As Mr E hasnt agreed with what our Investigator said, his complaint has now been passed 
to me  an Ombudsman  to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint. I know this will disappoint him, 
so Ill explain why.
The marker Santander have filed with CIFAS is intended to record theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. 
In order to file such a marker, Santanders not required to prove beyond reasonable doubt 
Mr E is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but they must show there are grounds for more 
than mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show fraudulent funds have 
entered Mr Es account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. Having 
looked at the information Santander have given me; Im satisfied fraudulent funds entered 
Mr Es account. 
Secondly, Santander will need to have strong evidence to show the consumer was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payments and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment.
A marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be 
enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. So, I need to consider whether Santander 
has enough evidence to meet the standard of proof and load a marker for a misuse of facility 
with CIFAS.
Mr E says he has always acted in good faith and has effectively been an unwitting victim 
here as he allowed Miss O to use his account whilst she sorted out her debit card issue. The 
crux of this complaint therefore falls on whether Im persuaded Mr E was most likely 
deliberately complicit or whether he was unwitting. 
Having listened to Mr Es conversation with Santander when questioned about payments 
into his account, and what he told this service happened, Im satisfied that they are 
substantially inconsistent. Because of this Mr Es credibility is called into question. 
I note Mr E accepts he was contradictory and has put forward mitigation for this. Namely, 
that he wasnt trying to obfuscate the truth, but that he was trying not to get into trouble for 
the size of transactions entering his account. He adds that he was receiving large sums from 
unknown individuals due to problems with getting money sent over internationally and as his 
account was frozen, he couldnt check the transactions. 
Ive carefully considered everything Mr E has said but having done so Im not persuaded 
Mr E was unwitting to the fraud. I say that because I find it difficult to accept he had only 
given Santander inaccurate and misleading information as he was worried about getting into 
trouble.  If Mr E had nothing to hide, he had no other reason than tell the truth when Santander spoke 
to him. The fact he has been inconsistent, and somewhat evasive lends to the conclusion 
that he was deliberately concealing something he knew was improper or illicit. 
I note what hes said in mitigation but given the evidence, Im persuaded to put more weight 
on him being deliberately inconsistent  and that he was most likely therefore concealing 
something he knew was wrong, and therefore he was witting. After all, if your account is 
frozen, and youre being asked questions about transactions, you would naturally 
understand the importance of being honest. 
So it follows that Im persuaded Santander applied the marker fairly. 
Mr E says Santander didnt do enough by way of contacting him to carry out its investigation 
fairly. Ive seen a letter Santander sent to him in May 2021 in which it told Mr E his account 
had been blocked and for him to contact it. Santander also called Mr E to ask about the 
transactions. Given Mr E accepts he wasnt telling the truth here, and having heard the 
content, Im satisfied that at that point Santander had enough information to have applied the 
marker.  What Mr E said was implausible and evasive  and as it wasnt the truth, its not 
difficult to see why Santander had cause for concern and applied the marker. 
Mr E hasnt complained about his account being closed, so this isnt something Ive 
considered here. Mr E has suggested in one of his representations that he has been treated 
differently by Santander due to a protected characteristic. But I havent seen anything that 
shows he was treated differently because of a protected characteristic. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman