DRN-3645933
The complaint
Mr Z and Ms G complain about the quality of a car supplied by Close Brothers Limited 
(CBL) trading as Motor Finance.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr Z and Ms G entered into a conditional sale agreement with CBL for a 
used car. The car was just under nine years old, had travelled approximately 111,000 miles, 
and had a cash price of £12,990. It came with an additional warranty provided by R, a 
company that specialises in warranty and breakdown services. 
Around two months later the car broke down. Mr Z and Ms G say theyd only travelled 
around 900 miles in this time. They took the car for an inspection by a manufacturers 
garage, who said more diagnostic work would be needed to find the cause of the problem. 
Mr Z and Ms G say they contacted the dealer about getting this issue resolved but found 
them unhelpful. On 17 May 2021 they complained to CBL, saying they wanted to reject the 
car.
CBL arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. The engineers report said: 
clearly further investigation of the condition will need to take place, with regards to a 
potential timing and fuel low pressure issue. This will require dismantling to take place if 
further diagnostics do not reveal the condition. 
Following this inspection, CBL told Mr Z and Ms G the dealer had agreed to carry out a 
repair. As the car wasnt driveable, arrangements needed to be made to transport it back to 
the dealers premises. 
Mr Z and Ms G say that, after a lot of confusing messages, R advised them to take the car to 
a local independent garage. They say they understood this was to get the fault properly 
diagnosed, so a warranty claim could be submitted. 
On 29 July 2021 the car was recovered to an independent garage, E, who attempted to 
submit a warranty claim to R so the car could be repaired. But the claim was declined 
because R considered the fault to have been present when the car was supplied. 
E sent CBL a report and estimate for repair. The report confirmed:
Timing chain has failed. Valves have impacted on all pistons, cylinder head damage & 
damage to engine block. Engine is beyond economical repair.
E told CBL theyd incurred the following costs, which needed to be paid before the car would 
be released:
Transportation of the car: £300
Diagnostic: £375
Estimate preparation: £150.
E said storage costs would also be incurred on a daily basis until the car was collected. 
CBL agreed to cover the cost of the diagnostic. They told Mr Z and Ms G to pay the rest of 
Es costs by 16 August 2021, so the car could be collected. But Mr Z and Ms G say they 
couldnt afford to pay this due to their worsening financial situation. 
On 25 August 2021 CBL issued their final response to Mr Z and Ms Gs complaint. CBL said 
they hadnt been able to collect the car because Es costs hadnt been paid  and that this 
meant they couldnt agree to rejection or repair. CBL said theyd credited one monthly 
instalment for a missed payment in August 2021, and paid Mr Z and Ms G £150 for any 
distress and inconvenience theyd been caused. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought CBL should have made 
appropriate arrangements to recover the faulty car instead of leaving it with E, accruing 
storage charges. So she said CBL should arrange for its recovery. 
The investigator said CBL should cancel the agreement and collect the car with nothing 
further for Mr Z and Ms G to pay - and refund their deposit of £1,299. She also thought CBL 
should refund the last seven months repayments Mr Z and Ms G had made, with interest, 
because theyd had no use of the car during that time. And she said CBL should pay £250 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
CBL agreed Mr Z and Ms G should be able to reject the car. They also agreed to refund the 
repayments Mr Z and Ms G had made during the time they hadnt been able to use it - and 
to pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
But CBL said theyd provided evidence showing theyd instructed Mr Z and Ms G that the car 
needed to be delivered to the dealer. CBL said that, by authorising the car to be taken 
elsewhere, Mr Z and Ms G had caused additional charges to be incurred. CBL said theyd 
recently paid Es charges of £2,400 so the car could be collected. They felt this cost should 
be deducted from any refunds due to Mr Z and Ms G. 
The investigator said Mr Z and Ms G werent liable to pay Es charges. She said the dispute 
about who should cover this cost was a matter for CBL to raise with the dealer and R. 
CBL said they wouldnt be able to pursue this with the dealer or R. They said they hadnt 
received any evidence showing R had advised Mr Z and Ms G to have the car delivered 
elsewhere. And in any event, they felt Mr Z and Ms G would still be liable for the costs 
incurred because theyd chosen to follow Rs advice instead of CBLs. They asked for an 
ombudsman to review the case. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Z and Ms Gs complaint is about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. 
Entering into consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity. So, Im 
satisfied I can look into Mr Z and Ms Gs concerns about CBL.The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, it seems likely that 
the relevant circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age 
and mileage at the time of sale, and the cars history.
CBL accept the faults with this car were very likely to have been developing at the time it 
was supplied to Mr Z and Ms G - and that they should therefore be able to reject the car. So, 
it doesnt seem in dispute that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied. But for completeness, Ive considered whether this was the case. 
The car broke down after around two months and 900 miles. The engine had suffered 
substantial damage due to failure of the timing chain, which I consider to be a significant 
fault. Taking into account all the relevant circumstances, Im satisfied that the fault was 
present or developing at the time the car was supplied. It follows that Im satisfied the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
The main area of dispute in this case relates to the outstanding garage bill that needed to be 
paid before the car could be collected. Ive reviewed how that situation arose. 
CBL say they provided clear instructions to Mr Z and Ms G about the collection of the car, 
but they chose not to follow them. They say they have records of conversations in which Mr 
Z and Ms G said they didnt want the dealer to carry out repairs. Ive given careful thought to 
these points. But having reviewed all the evidence in detail, Im not persuaded Mr Z and Ms 
G have acted unreasonably. Ill explain why.
The case notes say that on 7 July 2021 CBL told Mr Z and Ms G the dealer would repair the 
car  and that Mr Z and Ms G informed them it wasnt driveable. Over the weeks that 
followed, Ive seen there was lots of communication between the dealer, CBL and Mr Z and 
Ms G about how and when the car would be collected. 
The case notes show Mr Z and Ms G told CBL they wouldnt be able to use their own 
breakdown cover with R to get the car to the dealer, as theyd already used this service once 
to recover the car. This information was relayed to the dealer, who sent a recovery truck to 
collect the car. But the recovery truck was sent to the manufacturers garage that had 
inspected the car several weeks earlier  and the car was no longer there. 
Ive seen no evidence to suggest the car had been moved since the independent engineer 
inspected it outside Mr Z and Ms Gs home on 2 June 2021. So, Im satisfied that CBL knew 
the address from which it needed to be picked up.
CBLs notes show they called Mr Z and Ms G on Monday 19 July 2021. Mr Z and Ms G said 
theyd been told the car would be collected over the weekend, but this hadnt happened. 
CBL promised the car would be collected that day. The notes go on to record an agreement 
between CBL and the dealer that the car would be collected by mid-day on 22 July 2021. 
On 22 July 2021, CBLs notes record a suggestion from the dealer that the car could be 
transported more quickly  and repairs started sooner  by instructing R to collect the car. 
The dealer said Mr Z and Ms G would need to contact R to provide their current address, 
because the information R held was out of date.Ive listened to the recording of CBLs phone call to Mr Z and Ms G the following day. CBL 
repeatedly asked Mr Z to contact R to confirm the address for collection. Mr Z expressed 
reluctance to do this, initially saying Not my job, thats the dealers job, Im not going to do 
that. Mr Z explained that the dealer and R both had his home address - and that R had 
previously delivered the car there. He expressed concern about the number of broken 
promises to collect the car and asked what would happen if they didnt collect this time. But 
despite his obvious concerns about this, Mr Z clearly agreed to call R, as CBL requested. 
Following this, Ive seen a copy of an email Mr Z sent CBL on 2 August 2021. He said hed 
contacted R, but theyd refused to recover the car free of charge. Ive seen that CBL replied 
on 3 August 2021. Their email said thered been crossed wires - and that the car could be 
recovered without charge to Mr Z and Ms G using the dealers account with R, instead of Mr 
Z and Ms Gs personal account. 
The evidence Ive seen shows the car had been taken to E on 29 July 2021. Mr Z and Ms G 
have explained that, after a lot of confusing messages, R had advised them to take the car 
to a local independent garage. They understood this was to get the fault properly diagnosed 
so a warranty claim could be submitted. Ive seen nothing in the evidence to contradict the 
account theyve given here. 
All things considered, I think its clear that confusion was created about the arrangement for 
R to collect the car, and I dont think this was the fault of Mr Z and Mrs G. In particular, I think 
there was likely to have been confusion as to whether the collection was to be requested 
under Mr Z and Ms Gs own breakdown service, under the warranty supplied with the car, or 
as a separate arrangement at the dealers request. 
I take into account the added complication of R being instructed by the dealer, who 
explained the arrangement to CBL, who explained it to Mr Z and Ms G, who were then 
expected to confirm the arrangements with R.
Ive seen a suggestion that a previous collection attempt was unsuccessful due to an 
incorrect address being given. But Ive seen no supporting evidence to show Mr Z and Ms G 
were in any way responsible for that error. 
I find the car to have been available for collection from 2 June 2021  when the independent 
engineer inspected it outside Mr Z and Ms Gs home - to 29 July 2021. I consider this ample 
time for it to have been collected and returned to the dealer for full diagnosis of the fault, with 
a view to either repair or rejection of the car. By this point I note Mr Z and Ms G hadnt been 
able to use the car for more than three months. 
Thinking about all of this, Im not persuaded that Mr Z and Mrs G acted unreasonably by 
arranging for the car to go to E.
Ive seen the outstanding charges owed to E related to recovery of the car, diagnosis of the 
fault, preparation of a written report to support the request to reject the car, and storage 
charges. Im satisfied these charges wouldnt have been incurred if CBL had been more 
proactive and arranged for the car to be returned to the dealer, rather than bringing R into 
things which ultimately led to delay and confusion. A significant amount of the charges 
related to storage - which could have been avoided if CBL had been more proactive once 
the car had been taken to E.
Overall, I find these charges flow from confusion and miscommunication following a breach 
of contract by CBL. I also note CBLs obligation under the CRA to ensure a repair is carried 
out within a reasonable timeframe and without significant inconvenience to Mr Z and Ms G  
and Im not satisfied that was achieved here. So, I dont think it fair to hold Mr Z and Ms G responsible for any of the costs incurred. 
Putting things right
CBL agree that Mr Z and Ms G should be able to reject the car. This means the agreement 
will come to an end with no further payments due, and Mr Z and Ms G should receive a 
refund of the £1,299 deposit they paid.
Ive seen evidence showing Mr Z and Ms G told the dealer the car broke down on 18 April 
2021  and Im satisfied that they havent been able to use it since then. So, I think they 
should receive a refund of the repayments theyve made under the agreement from this 
date.
Mr Z and Ms G say they were put in a very difficult financial position due to having to pay 
travel expenses as well as meeting their regular monthly payments for the car - and theyve 
been recorded as having defaulted on the agreement. Im satisfied that they were put in this 
difficult situation because CBL had supplied them with a car that wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. So, I think its fair that any adverse information about this agreement should be 
removed from their credit file. 
Mr Z and Ms G have told us that the problems with the car caused them a great deal of 
stress. They say theyve been paying for a car they havent been able to use, whilst also 
having to pay for public transport for themselves and their children. I can appreciate that the 
dispute over whether they should also pay Es outstanding bill of £2,400 would have added 
to their stress. 
Mr Z and Ms G feel CBLs representative was rude and abusive towards them on a number 
of occasions. I havent heard any evidence of this, but I havent had access to recordings of 
all the phone conversations theyve had about this issue. Ive seen a copy of an email CBL 
sent Mr Z following a phone conversation on 4 August 2021, which says: I apologise if you 
feel threatened by my tone this wasnt my intention. So, I think it likely that Mr Z was upset 
by at least one of the conversations hed had with CBL. 
CBL paid £150 to Mr Z and Ms G for any distress and inconvenience theyve been caused. 
Ive seen CBL have agreed to increase this to £250. Based on the information Ive seen so 
far, I think this fairly reflects the impact this situation has had on Mr Z and Ms G.
I said I intended to uphold this complaint and direct CBL to:
End the agreement at no further cost to Mr Z and Ms G. For the avoidance of doubt, 
this means CBL should not pass on any charges they incurred from E.
Refund the £1,299 deposit.
Refund the payments Mr Z and Ms G have made under the agreement from 18 April 
2021.
Interest should be added to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Z and Ms Gs credit 
file.
Pay Mr Z and Ms G a total of £250 for the distress and inconvenience theyve been 
caused, if this hasnt been done already.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Z and Ms G said they accept my provisional findings.CBL said they believe it would be reasonable for them to withhold the storage costs from the 
refund to Mr Z and Ms G. Ill summarise the points CBL made:
Although they agree there was confusion about when the car would be collected and 
possibly who it would be collected by, they feel it was clear from the evidence that 
the last instruction to the customer was to use the recovery service to have the car 
transported to the supplying dealer. No instruction was given at any point to have the 
car taken to a third party garage.
Theres evidence to show the customer was given a specific instruction from the 
dealer, but a lack of evidence to confirm they were given a contradictory instruction 
by R. CBL feel the reasonable conclusion would be to give more significance to the 
point for which there is evidence. 
R was only acting as a collection agent. If the customer was confused about what to 
do it would be reasonable for them to make an attempt to clarify this.
As the dealer had an account with R allowing a vehicle to be transported without 
charge, CBL wouldnt refuse this and elect to incur the cost of making arrangements 
themselves. Delivery arrangements like this are very common. The only reason for 
the issue here was that the customer didnt follow the dealer/CBLs instructions. 
It isnt reasonable for CBL to be held responsible for Es costs on the basis that these 
costs wouldnt have been incurred if CBL had done things differently. They said Mr Z 
and Ms G had a responsibility to collect the vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given careful thought to the additional points CBL have raised. Im not persuaded that I 
should depart from my provisional decision, so I adopt that reasoning here. But Ill expand on 
some issues for clarity.
First Ill address CBLs point about who collected and transported the car. CBL say they 
expect the supplying dealer to arrange the collection - and that they wouldnt make 
arrangements themselves where the dealer already has a facility in place to do this at no 
cost. I dont consider the arrangements between CBL and the supplying dealer to be 
relevant here - Ill explain why.
The car was supplied to Mr Z and Ms G by CBL. So, if it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
time it was supplied, responsibility for providing a remedy rests with CBL. I note that, in the 
first instance, the proposed remedy was to return the car to the supplying dealer for a repair. 
The CRA says a repair must be carried out within a reasonable time and without significant 
inconvenience to Mr Z and Ms G. So, Im satisfied that CBL had an obligation to ensure the 
collection arrangements werent causing unreasonable delays or inconvenience. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that the car was available for 
collection from 2 June 2021 to 29 July 2021. I consider this more than enough time for CBL 
to have collected and returned it to the dealer for full diagnosis of the fault, with a view to 
either repair or rejection. 
CBL say the only confusion caused related to when, and by whom, the car would be 
collected. They feel strongly that the evidence shows the last instruction Mr Z and Ms G 
were given was to use the recovery service to have the car transported to the supplying dealer. They feel more weight should be given to this evidence, due to the lack of supporting 
evidence to confirm Mr Z and Ms Gs version of events. Im not persuaded of this  Ill 
explain my reasoning in more detail. 
Ive reviewed the evidence of the last instructions CBL gave Mr Z before R collected the car. 
Ive listened again to the recording of their phone conversation on 23 July 2021 about the 
arrangements. I heard Mr Z say: whatever you say I follow that, but Im 100% sure they let 
me down, which they done for the last three months. CBLs representative acknowledged 
that thered been issues with collection, but assured Mr Z that R can collect it at no cost to 
yourself and no effect to any future breakdowns. 
CBLs contact notes show they contacted Mr Z again on 2 August 2021 to find out why the 
car hadnt been delivered to the dealer. The notes show Mr Z told CBL hed contacted R but 
theyd told him the dealer would need to arrange the collection. 
CBLs notes show they then contacted R, who confirmed theyd quoted Mr Z and Ms G £250 
to recover the car to the dealer. So Im satisfied that Mr Z had contacted R, as instructed, but 
they hadnt agreed to transport the car to the dealer free of charge, as hed been promised 
by CBL. I think this would be confusing, frustrating, and stressful for him. 
So I remain satisfied that, when Mr Z and Ms G confirmed the arrangements with R for the 
car to be collected on 29 July 2021, there was confusion as to whether this was being 
requested under Mr Z and Ms Gs own breakdown service, under the warranty supplied with 
the car, or as a separate arrangement at the dealers request. And I remain of the view that 
Mr Z and Ms G didnt act unreasonably by arranging for the car to go to E.
And as I dont consider Mr Z and Ms G to be responsible for the confusion that resulted in 
arrangements being made for the car to go to E, I remain of the view that it wouldnt be fair 
to hold them responsible for any of the costs incurred. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Close Brothers Limited to:
End the agreement at no further cost to Mr Z and Ms G. For the avoidance of doubt, 
this means CBL should not pass on any charges they incurred from E.
Refund the £1,299 deposit.
Refund the payments Mr Z and Ms G have made under the agreement from 18 April 
2021.
Interest should be added to each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date 
of each payment until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year.
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Z and Ms Gs credit 
file.
Pay Mr Z and Ms G a total of £250 for the distress and inconvenience theyve been 
caused, if this hasnt been done already.
If CBL consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they should 
provide Mr Z and Ms G with a tax deduction certificate so they can reclaim the tax, if theyre 
eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 Corinne Brown
Ombudsman