DRN-2740788
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited dealt with his 
home insurance claim for damage to his laptop, hard drive, docking station and other items 
relating to his music hobby.
What happened
In December 2019 Mr B put in his claim to Lloyds. He explained that the laptop and docking 
station were specialist pieces of equipment. Lloyds asked him to obtain quotes. It then 
obtained the damaged laptop from him and sent it to its specialist suppliers for examination. 
They determined that the laptops nearest equivalent was a certain model number and 
specification. In February 2020 Lloyds offered a payment of £7,648.65 in full settlement of all 
his items, which Mr B accepted.
However he didnt realise the offer was in full settlement and continued to ask Lloyds and its 
suppliers about the specifications used to price the laptop and docking station, and a 
breakdown of the figure between the items. Lloyds provided the breakdown but there were 
delays and a lack of communication in getting the necessary information across to him. 
Because of those delays Lloyds agreed to pay Mr B £125 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him. It said the payment made was based on what its suppliers told 
it about the cost of replacement of the items. It said it was willing to review the payment if 
Mr B did not feel it was suitable for his needs or couldnt replace with the settlement it had 
provided and would welcome his providing it with an alternative to be reviewed. Mr B 
provided details of a suitable laptop and Lloyds agreed to consider this.
Mr B felt that he didnt have enough information about the specifications Lloyds suppliers 
had considered. He also pointed out that the docking station wasnt suitable for the laptop.
On referral to this service our investigator said she couldnt consider how Lloyds had dealt 
with Mr Bs complaint. With regard to the claim, she thought that Lloyds had acted 
reasonably and provided Mr B with sufficient information. She pointed out that though he had 
accepted a final settlement Lloyds was willing to consider further evidence.
The matter has been passed to me further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr Bs laptop was a bespoke one designed to work with his musical 
instruments. I think in those circumstances Lloyds was entitled to send the laptop to its 
specialist suppliers to consider what a suitable replacement was. I appreciate that at first, 
due to an error, it gave the wrong laptop number but Mr B was able to correct that. And I 
understand that Mr B felt he wasnt given a sufficient breakdown of the costs before being 
offered a final settlement. That said, the offer of £7,648.65 clearly set out that it was in full 
settlement and Mr B accepted it. Lloyds would have been entitled to consider the matter 
closed at that stage.
But I appreciate that Mr B didnt fully understand the offer was made in full settlement so I 
dont think it would be reasonable to expect Mr B to have to accept that settlement without 
Lloyds considering further evidence (as it has offered to do).
I can see that Mr B had some trouble getting out of Lloyds the exact specifications its 
suppliers were working to, but these were eventually supplied and Mr B was paid £125 
compensation for that delay which appears to me to be reasonable. In respect of the screen 
size Lloyds says the model its suppliers checked was 15.6 and not 17 as Mr B asserted. 
Regrettably it appears that Mr B has now disposed of the laptop but if he has any further
evidence about screen size, Lloyds is willing to consider it.
So I think that Lloyds has acted reasonably in respect of the claim. Moving forward it has 
offered to consider further evidence from Mr B. I think it was reasonable for it to offer a cash 
settlement since it doesnt appear to be able to supply the model Mr B wants. In that case it 
should pay sufficient to enable Mr B to replace, as new, his old laptop and docking station. I 
have to bear in mind that it is for the person making the claim to provide sufficient proof of 
loss. So if Mr B can show that his laptop was of a higher specification than that Lloyds based 
its costing on, then he should be entitled to a further payment. I appreciate that might be 
difficult but he might be able to contact the retailer he originally bought it from. At present 
Lloyds is considering Mr Bs further evidence, if hes not satisfied with its response it will be 
up to him to decide if hes able to provide any evidence.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman