DRN-3335407
The complaint
Ms T complains she was given unsuitable investment advice by Landmark Financial 
Planning Limited. She particularly feels that one of the funds it recommended carried too 
much risk and that she should have been advised to switch out of it sooner. So, shed like 
the related loss repaid, along with a pro rata refund of Landmarks fees.
What happened
In 2017 Ms T approached Landmark for investment advice. She was in her mid-50s and 
looking at retirement planning. In April 2017 Landmark recommended she transfer her 
deferred pension, valued at just under £360,000, to a Self-invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP). It was recorded that she had a lower to medium attitude to risk  defined as being 
relatively cautious but with an acceptance of some risk. And she was seeking increased 
flexibility with an overall objective to protect the value of her existing benefits, rather than 
achieve significant capital growth. 
The structure Landmark recommended within the SIPP was around £200,000 in cash and 
fixed term deposits along with four investments totalling £160,000. Of this, £80,000 was in a 
FTSE index tracking fund that guaranteed the return of the initial investment after five years. 
The remaining £80,000 was split across three equity-based funds, of which £20,000 was 
invested in the Woodford Equity Index Fund (WEIF). Its this fund thats at the heart of the 
complaint. 
In February 2018 Ms T queried some aspects of the recommendation with Landmark, 
including related charges and a couple of the funds, including the WEIF. She highlighted its 
poor performance, noting it had lost around 14% of its value since shed invested. 
Landmarks adviser acknowledged this and said that it would be kept under review.  
Shortly after, in May 2018, an annual planning report was produced for Ms T as part of 
Landmarks ongoing service and a meeting took place to discuss the report. Again, it was 
noted that, among other things, the WEIF would be kept under review. 
By the time the next annual review came around, in May 2019, Ms T had become far more 
concerned about the situation with her SIPP. The notes of the review meeting show that she 
was still worried about the impact of the charges and the performance of the WEIF on the 
overall value of the SIPP. Her adviser again acknowledged the situation but pointed out that 
the WEIF investment represented a very small proportion of her whole portfolio. It was left 
that Ms T would decide how she wished to proceed, as shed indicated that she might prefer 
to manage the portfolio herself in future. 
Shortly after, on 26 May 2019, Ms T instructed Landmark to sell her holding in the WEIF. By 
this point it had reduced in value to just under £15,000. She then confirmed that she did 
want to manage the investments herself, citing the cost of the advice and the performance of 
the WEIF as the main reasons for her decision. 
Ms T then complained to Landmark about the advice shed received. She felt she should be 
compensated for investment loss based on the value of her holding in the WEIF in February 
2018 (around £17,000)  the point at which shed first raised concerns about it  and also 
refunded a proportionate amount of the fees to reflect what she saw as the unsuitable advice 
to invest in the WEIF. 
Landmark didnt uphold the complaint. In brief, it said that the investments that formed the 
SIPP portfolio had been intended to be held for the long term. So, it wasnt reasonable to 
have expected the adviser to anticipate or act upon short-term price movements. He had 
considered risk management in the context of the whole portfolio, of which the WEIF had 
represented only 5.5.%. By the 2019 review the adviser would have recommended the sale 
of the WEIF holding but held back doing so because of the uncertainty around what Ms T 
wanted to do with management of the investments going forward. In short, as Landmark 
didnt feel it had acted incorrectly in respect of the WEIF investment it didnt consider it was 
responsible for any loss or that any refund of fees was due.  
Ms T referred her complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as Landmark. He acknowledged that the WEIF was higher risk, so in isolation 
would appear unsuitable for her needs and circumstances. But he accepted that it should be 
considered as part of the overall portfolio and investment strategy, which was generally low-
risk because of its heavy reliance upon fixed-interest and structured products. The 
investigator noted that Ms Ts objective had been to maintain her pensions value and 
benefits but highlighted that it had been agreed at the outset in 2017 that, while cautious, 
she recognised the need to accept an element of risk. 
The investigator acknowledged the poor performance of the WEIF, and that Ms T had raised 
this with Landscape in February 2018. But he said that while Landscape had made changes 
to its view of the fund in 2018 in respect of making new recommendations to clients, there 
hadnt at that time been a pressing need to sell. Thered been nothing that made it clear the 
funds performance wouldnt improve. 
Ms T didnt accept the investigators view. She said, in brief: 
She was generally accepting of the need to accept some risk and the benefits of 
doing so, as she had other investments. But the WEIF was unsuitable because of the 
way in which it changed over time. 
She hadnt been provided with fund factsheets with the original recommendation as 
the investigator had indicated. These had only been made available to her in 2018. 
But in any event, she wouldnt have been able to interpret them. That was the job of 
her adviser. 
She hadnt been aware that Landmarks view of the fund had changed in July 2018 
and if she had been, she wouldve sold sooner. Although the change happened after 
her 2018 annual review, she felt she shouldve been contacted by Landmark and 
updated on the situation. 
The investigator noted Ms Ts comments but wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. So, 
the matter was referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I recognise Ms T will be very disappointed, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. I dont think the complaint should be upheld and Ill explain 
why.The crux of the complaint is that Ms T considers Landmark shouldve recommended she sell 
her holding in the WEIF when she first raised concerns about its performance in February 
2018. I can understand that given what happened after this  a continued fall in the funds 
value, prompting her to give the instruction to sell just prior to the funds suspension  it now 
looks like that the adviser should have recommended Ms T sell the holding at some point 
during 2018.
But its important to avoid using hindsight when considering the matter. I must look at 
whether the adviser acted incorrectly or unreasonably based on what was known at the time. 
In that respect, its clearly documented that Ms T had concerns about the fund in 2018 and 
its also not in dispute that its performance was poor, and that several changes were made 
to the fund in that year. For example, it was recategorised as an All Companies fund to 
reflect a reduction in the level of income it was producing. And it was also investing 
increasingly in unlisted securities.
These issues and the performance had prompted Landmark to put the fund under review, as 
was communicated to Ms T in response to her initial concerns and in the report of her 2018 
review. But they werent deemed sufficient by Landmark to recommend that Ms T sell her 
holding. As noted, this is the key issue. Landmarks reasons for not making such a 
recommendation are, in essence, that the holding had to be viewed in the context of the 
portfolio as a whole. It was the smallest holding, representing just 5.5% of the total value. 
And it was there, alongside two other equity funds (together representing a much larger 
proportion) to add an element of risk to the portfolio, that Ms T had acknowledged she was 
prepared to accept as she understood the need for it. 
Further, the fund manager was generally recognised for good performance, noted for ups 
and downs but with a propensity for bouncing back. While its always stressed in the 
context of investment that past performance is not a guide to future performance, I think it 
was nevertheless reasonable for Landmark to consider this record when reviewing the fund. 
So, given those specific circumstances, Im satisfied it was reasonable that Landscape didnt 
recommend Ms T sell when she raised her initial concerns in February 2018. I note what 
shes said about not being informed about the changes that took place with the WEIF during 
the rest of the year, after shed had her review. And I accept that Landscape could have 
been more proactive in keeping her informed. But, on balance, Im not sure the outcome 
wouldve been any different. I think Landscapes view would still have been to remain 
invested during 2018  particularly given the size of Ms Hs investment and the short time for 
which it had been in place  and I dont think the changes would, in themselves, have been 
sufficient to prompt Ms T to issue her sell instruction earlier. I think that would most likely 
always have been driven by performance and the impact on the value of her pension.
The position was clearly beginning to change in 2019 and I think it likely that a point would 
have come when Landscape recommended a switch. Indeed, this was mentioned in the 
letter sent to Ms T following her May 2019 review. It was noted that Landscape was awaiting 
a decision from Ms T about how she wished to proceed generally before it would act on what 
was now its sell view of the WEIF. But Ms T then issued an instruction to sell in any event. 
In conclusion, I do sympathise with Ms Ts situation as its clear this matter has caused her a 
great deal of concern and over quite a length of time. But looking at the specific 
circumstances of the situation Im not persuaded that Landmark acted incorrectly. It follows 
therefore that I wont be making any direction in respect of either investment loss, or the fees 
that were changed to Ms T.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman