DRN-2517940
The complaint
C complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) have unfairly declined a claim 
under its Buildmark policy. 
Any reference to C or NHBC includes that of respective representatives or agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
C represents several flat owners at a single property built in 2008. C holds an NHBC 
Buildmark policy which provides ten years of cover after it is built. C made a claim 
under Section 3 of the policy  which covers damage arising from defects occurring 
between years three and ten. C reported water ingress affecting three flats to NHBC, 
saying this ingress damaged furniture and fittings inside the homes, as well as 
impacting their ability to efficiently heat the homes.
NHBC considered the claim and declined it. It said the water ingress was caused by 
the frames of the respective window and doors  and this isnt covered by the policy.
C disagreed and complained. C said they had spent around £10,000 on works upon 
NHBCs advice which hadnt resolved the problem, and they had instructed a 
surveyor to investigate at their own cost. C also complained about the handling of the 
claim. NHBC didnt change its position but agreed its level of communication fell 
short of expectation and apologised. 
Our investigator said the policy covered defects and defined these within an 
exhaustive list. As window and door frames werent listed, the claim wasnt covered. 
While he agreed NHBCs communication couldve been better, he didnt think this 
impacted the claim. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
C disagreed, saying that the damage in question hadnt been limited to the windows 
and doors (and included a lack of weather detail to weatherboarding and framing, a 
lack of damp-proof courses amongst other issues) and highlighted the relevant 
building regulations to support this. C also said it was irrelevant whether the windows 
and doors were classed as a particular type of wall as NHBC standards required the 
design to comply with building regulations  which in this case it didnt. 
NHBC didnt dispute defects present that had caused the water ingress, but said the 
defect in question wasnt included within the exhaustive list of cover. NHBC said its 
claims investigator had given their opinion on cause of damage which the surveyor 
had agreed with. And it questioned what evidence there was to show weather proof 
detailing may contribute towards water ingress. Following some back and forth, 
NHBC reiterated the water ingress had been caused by poor maintenance of the 
woodwork to the windows and doors with evidence of rot. It also said any 
consideration to weathering fell outside of the scope of this service.
Having reviewed the relevant reports again the investigator was persuaded, on 
balance, that the water ingress was caused by the window and door frames. And he 
said hed considered whether the windows and doors formed an integral part of the 
external load-bearing wall as this may be covered. But having done so, he didnt 
believe they were as these could be removed from the property without 
compromising the structural integrity of the building structure. 
C disagreed, saying it didnt agree the water ingress was only occurring via windows 
and doors, saying there was water leaking through a second-floor flat ceiling so the 
windows and doors could not be the cause. It agreed the windows and doors in 
question did not form part of a load bearing wall. C said a non-load bearing faade or 
curtain wall must be covered under the warranty. And C said the joints between the 
elements of the curtain wall may be where the leaks have occurred - between 
window sills and spandrel panels (which it says are not windows). C also listed a 
number of reasons it thinks the build did not meet the correct building standards. C 
also suggested NHBC may have selectively tested and defined building elements to 
avoid paying a valid claim.
C provided further commentary in January 2021. Within this it made various points, 
concluding the cause of water ingress was due to defective building elements, other 
than windows and doors. It said damage to other building elements was caused by 
the longstanding, continued water ingress. And NHBC had failed in its duty of care 
to ensure that their warrantied building complies with their own standards.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
C has made a claim under Section 3 of the NHBC Buildmark policy. It says NHBC will pay:
The full Cost, if it is more than £1000 Indexed, of putting right any actual physical 
Damage caused by a Defect in any of the following parts of the house, bungalow, 
maisonette or flat and its garage or other permanent outbuilding, or its Common Parts:
Foundations
Load-bearing walls
Non load-bearing partition walls
Wet-applied wall plaster
External render and external vertical tile hanging
Load-bearing parts of the roof
Tile and slate coverings to pitched roofs
Ceilings
Load-bearing parts of the floors
Staircases and internal floor decking and screeds where these fail to support normal 
loads
Retaining walls necessary for the structural stability of the house, bungalow, flat or 
maisonette, its garage or other permanent outbuilding
Double or triple glazing panes to external windows and doors
Below-ground drainage for which you are responsible
The policy defines the words damage and defect.
Damage
Physical damage to the Home caused by a Defect.Defect
A breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement by the Builder or anyone employed 
by him or acting for him. Failure to follow the guidance supporting the NHBC 
Requirements does not in itself amount to a Defect, as there may be other ways 
that the required performance can be achieved.
This means, the policy will only cover physical damage resulting from a defect (as defined) 
within a part of the house that is included within the exhaustive list above. 
Given the nature of this case and NHBCs objections, Ive started by looking at whether any 
of the damage in question is caused by a defect within any of the listed parts of the property. 
And if it doesnt, then the claim will not succeed whether or not theres a defect. 
C has agreed that the problems that have occurred with the window and door frames do not 
fall within the scope of a load-bearing wall or retaining wall necessary for the structural 
stability of the property. I also agree with this, so I see no reason to go over this topic again.
But C has said that the external walls of the property should be considered a curtain wall. 
And in turn these should be considered as non load-bearing partition walls for the purposes 
of the policy. C has said to not do so would mean the external faade of their building (and 
many others) would be without cover under this Buildmark warranty. 
So, Ive asked myself whether the external faade of this property should be considered a 
non load-bearing partition wall. And having done so, Im not persuaded it should be. While 
its clear it isnt load-bearing, I dont agree its reasonable to consider it as a partition. I say 
this as it is an external wall that separates the property and the outside. Partition isnt 
defined within the policy, and Im not persuaded an everyday use of the word would extend 
to meaning an external wall.
For these reasons, Im satisfied any damage that is caused by the window and door frames 
is not covered under this policy. In terms of any wider issues C has about the Buildmark 
policys scope, this is simply not within the scope of this service to determine what it should 
cover.
While I understand C has raised a number of concerns about the curtain walling and panels 
between them  I cant see any of these points fall under any of the listed items covered by 
the policy. So, it doesnt change anything, even if I were to agree the building standards 
werent met.
C has also said that leaks may have occurred the joints between the elements of the curtain 
wall and has specified this is between the window sill and spandrel panels. Again, even if it 
was proved the damage originated from the spandrel panels alone, I dont see this falls 
within any area mentioned in the exhaustive list above. Nor have I been given enough to 
persuade me that any of the reported ceiling damage was caused by a defect in any of the 
areas within the same list.
C has also said NHBC has failed in its duty of care to ensure that their warrantied building 
complies with their own standards. But these considerations are all outside of the scope of 
the claim Im considering. And so, any complaint about NHBCs alleged negligence in 
inspecting the design and build of their property would not fall within the scope of this 
decision or this service. So, these points dont change my mind.
My final decisionFor the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman