DRN-4252578
The complaint
Mr S complains that the amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) has offered 
to settle his motor insurance claim is too low. 
Reference to Admiral include its agents. 
What happened
Mr S has comprehensive car insurance with Admiral. The policy renewed in September 
2022.  
Unfortunately in October 2022 Mr S was involved in a road traffic accident after which his car 
was deemed a total loss. Admiral initially offered £92,000 in settlement of the claim, but it 
increased this to approximately £95,000 following Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S wasnt happy because he believed the market value of his vehicle was around 
£107,000, and he provided evidence of this to Admiral. Mr S says Admiral ignored the points 
he raised in the final response letter and he wasnt offered the option of an independent 
assessment. 
Mr S says his car had a number of optional extras which added to its value. He says the 
valuation guides which Admiral referred to related to the basic specification of his car rather 
than his actual vehicle. The closest one in terms of specification was listed for over 
£105,000. 
Mr S believes £107,000 is a fair valuation for his car and wants Admiral to pay this in 
settlement of his claim. So he complained to Admiral. 
Admiral said the terms of Mr Ss policy defines market value as the cost of replacing the car 
with one of a similar make, model, year, and mileage based on market prices at the time of 
loss. Admiral explained it uses recognised industry guides to obtain a vehicles valuation. 
Admiral said it provided a valuation settlement based on the average of two guide valuations 
and so it didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the response from Admiral and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him.  He said he didnt think Admiral had 
acted fairly. He said given the type of vehicle and the optional extras, plus the fact the car 
increased in value between 2014 and 2018, he thought it would be reasonable to give a 
value outside of the guides. The investigator felt a fair valuation would be £107,000 and so 
Admiral should pay the difference. 
Admiral didnt agree and said the vehicles referred to by the investigator werent of the same 
specification. It said it would increase the settlement to approximately £103,000 but didnt 
agree to the investigators valuation so the matter was passed to me for review.
My provision decision
I recently issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the key complaint points 
and how I thought matters might best be resolved. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far I intend to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Valuation of the vehicle 
Our service relies upon the expert trade guides when checking whether or not an insurer has 
made a fair offer for a vehicle. Unfortunately those guides dont cover Mr Ss vehicle, and we 
have to determine his complaint according to what we think it the most likely value from 
other sources. 
I understand that Mr Ss vehicle is unique; the valuation isnt a simple standard process. 
Admiral accepted the original valuation of approximately £95,000 was too low and increased 
their offer to £103,750.
Mr Ss policy says, if we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of 
the vehicle. 
Market value is defined in the policy as, the cost of replacing your vehicle with one of a 
similar make, model, year, mileage, and condition based on market process immediately 
before the loss happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was 
purchased. This value is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides. 
Mr S says his car was worth significantly more than the amount Admiral have offered. When 
calculating market value, our long-standing position is that the main motor trade guides are a 
reliable way to decide a valuation rather than adverts. Due to the specification of Mr Ss car 
the investigator found market values from two trade guides. These give values for the car of 
£99,000 and £103,430. So while the initial valuation was lower than the guides the increased 
offer is within this range. 
But I think using the trade guides as the sole indicator of the value of the car could lead to an 
unfair outcome. Mr Ss car is a sports car with approximately £10,000 of additional 
specification from new with some desirable options. And given the specification it would be 
difficult for the trade guides to get a reliable value. I think this is the case here because the 
adverts Ive seen for similar cars have a wide range of values. 
The investigator looked at the market value of the vehicle, spoke to the manufacturers sales 
garage, and looked at the likely cost of the additions, in order to achieve a market value. I 
think hes used the correct methodology and arrived at a fair sum. The investigators 
valuation of £107,000 differs from Admirals because I dont think it took into account Mr Ss 
additions. 
 
Response to my provisional decision
Neither party has raised any additional points or queried my findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the fact that neither Mr S nor Admiral had anything to add to the findings set out in my provision decision (which Ive reproduced here and which forms part of this final 
decision), Im satisfied it represents an appropriate way to resolve the dispute. For the 
reasons Ive set out above Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Putting things right
I think a figure of £107,000 is a fair settlement in the circumstances and takes into account 
the additional optional extras on the vehicle. So the valuation is £3250 more than the 
increased offer from Admiral, and £11,215 more than the initial offer.  
So I think Admiral should settle the claim based on a valuation of £107,000 less the excess 
and any amount already paid in settlement of the claim. 
I also think Admiral should pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per year on the additional 
amount from the date of the original offer to Mr S to the date of the settlement. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to do what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman