DRN-3628985
The complaint
Mr R complains about the suitability of the advice provided by WPS Financial Group Limited 
(WPS) in September 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the British 
Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in her
assessment which she provided to both Mr R and WPS. I dont intend to repeat here what 
our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
safeguarded and guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members 
referred to possible outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a 
transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to 
provide compensation to members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes 
insolvent. Tata Steel closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
The details of Mr Rs safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as follows:
He had accrued 30 years and 3 months qualifying service between December 1986 
and March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, qualifying service and 
benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme in March 2017, his annual 
scheme pension was £18,641.40. The scheme pension would be revalued by a 
prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, 
once in payment, would also escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
Payment of benefits before age 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction 
on a sliding scale   in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60. If retiring early due to incapacity, the pension from date of leaving would be 
revalued to date of payment and paid without the usual early retirement reduction;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS at age 65 was 
£29,481 or a reduced pension of £19,538 plus tax-free cash of £130,255. And if paid 
early from age 55 it was £15,921 or a reduced pension of £11,259 plus tax-free cash 
of £75,063;
In the event the BSPS fell into the PPF, the estimated revalued annual scheme 
pension payable by the PPF at age 65 was £23,805 or a reduced pension of £18,423 
plus tax-free cash of £122,421. And if paid early from age 55 it was £16,775 or a 
reduced pension of £13,768 plus tax-free cash of £91,493;
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £469,521.52. 
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
Following the announcement, Mr R was contacted by the BSPS as part of the Time to 
Choose communication exercise. This explained that scheme members had three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr R to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS.  Members had to decide which option they wanted 
by 22 December 2017  those that didnt choose an option remained in the BSPS and were 
ultimately transferred to the PPF.
Mr R wanted advice on what to do regarding his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He had an 
existing relationship with WPS and so contacted it for advice.
On 19 September 2017, WPS issued its suitability report to Mr R recommending that he 
transfer the value of his preserved benefits in the BSPS to a PPP. At that time his 
circumstances were recorded by WPS as follows:
He was aged 47 and not in good health following a serious injury at work many years 
ago which led to a disability and restricted mobility. He was able to continue working 
and intended to do so for as long as possible but thought it likely he would retire 
before age 65 due to the impact of his disability on his health;
His wife was aged 46 and in good health. 
They had two financially dependent children aged 12 and 16;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£38,000;
His marital home was valued at about £500,000. He had investable assets of about 
£1m. This was made up of about £600,000 held on deposit and about £400,000 in 
investments. The source of this money was the result of a compensation payment he 
received following his serious injury at work;
He didnt have any debts or liabilities;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the full State pension at age 67 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since April 2017. The contribution rate 
paid into his DC plan was 16% of his gross annual salary of £38,000; andOn a scale of 1 to 10 with 1 as lowest risk and 10 as highest risk, his risk profile was 
determined to be a 6 which was described as High Medium risk.
WPSs suitability report confirmed that Mr R had the following objectives and priorities:
You intend to retire at age 55 with an income of around £15,000 per annum
Your current employer is winding up their final salary pension scheme and have 
offered you the option to transfer to an alternative arrangement
You wanted me to limit my advice to this area only
You do not wish to stay with your current employers scheme, which will either be 
transferred into the PPF or into BSPS2.
WPS recommended that the transfer value in the PPP be invested 70% into the Flexible 
Guaranteed Cautious Fund and 30% into the Vanguard Lifestyle 60% Equity fund to align 
with Mr Rs High Medium risk profile. 
Mr R accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed.
This complaint
During 2021, Mr R contacted this Service to raise a complaint about the suitability of WPSs 
pension transfer advice in September 2017. In summary, he said he was concerned that the 
pension transfer wasnt in his best interests bearing in mind his state of health and his view 
that he would need to retire and access his pension benefits earlier than age 65 due to ill-
health. Details of Mr Rs concerns were forwarded to WPS to give it the opportunity to 
respond.
After considering the matter, WPS didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it was satisfied 
that its pension transfer advice was suitable in the circumstances and enabled Mr R to 
achieve the flexibility he required.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. This 
was because she thought that WPSs recommendation to transfer wasnt clearly 
demonstrated to be in Mr Rs best interests. To put things right, our investigator 
recommended that WPS carry out a redress calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers on the basis that Mr R opted for the BSPS2, took benefits at the scheme normal 
retirement age of 65 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, she 
recommended that WPS pay Mr R £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
its unsuitable recommendation.
WPS didnt agree with our investigators conclusion and provided substantial comments in 
response. Our investigator considered these but wasnt persuaded to change her mind. 
Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was placed in the queue to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
While waiting for this complaint to be allocated to an ombudsman, WPS carried out a loss 
assessment using third party actuarial software which showed that Mr R hadnt suffered a 
loss based on the FCAs FG17/9 redress methodology. It sent a copy of the calculation 
output to Mr R and stated that the no loss outcome was evidence its pension transfer advice 
was suitable. The loss assessment calculation was on the basis that Mr R would take benefits early from the BSPS2 at age 55 and in the form of a reduced pension and the 
maximum tax-free lump sum available.
Mr R didnt accept the loss assessment outcome. He said that it was incorrect to assume he 
would take reduced benefits early at age 55 because of he had access to significant capital 
outside of his pension which wouldve enable him to defer taking benefits from the BSPS. 
And he also commented that, due to his wider wealth, it was unlikely he would opt to take 
the maximum tax-free cash.
In May 2023, our investigator wrote to WPS and Mr R to tell them that the FCA had 
developed a BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate redress due under the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme, as set out in PS22/13. And that the FCA was encouraging 
businesses to use that calculator for non-scheme cases, such as this complaint made by             
Mr R. Our investigator stated that in my final decision I may direct WPS to use the FCAs 
calculator and invited any comments that the parties wanted to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role, as set out in DISP 3.6.1R, is to decide this complaint by reference to what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. And when considering whats fair and 
reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the 
Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to take into account relevant: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Where 
the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, Ive made my decision based on the balance 
of probabilities. In other words Ive looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding 
circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Ive carefully considered all the available evidence afresh including WPSs substantial 
comments in response to our investigators assessment. Id like to make clear that the 
purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single point raised by Mr R and 
WPS. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected 
what I think is the right outcome.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
WPS was authorised and regulated by the FCA at the time it provided its recommendation to 
Mr R. This meant that when it advised him it was required to follow the rules and consider 
the guidance in the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) section in the FCAs 
Handbook.
Primarily, WPS was required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client in its dealings with Mr R. The suitability rules 
and guidance that applied when WPS provided its recommendation to Mr R were set out in 
COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance are to ensure that businesses take 
reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure 
theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objectives and 
risk profile. To ensure that this is the case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 
9.2.2R, the business must gather the necessary information for it to be confident its
advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a
regulated advisory business to undertake a fact find process.There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving
safeguarded benefits, as was applicable to Mr Rs case  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension
scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client
to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with
safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.
In assessing the suitability of WPSs recommendation, its necessary for me to have due 
regard to the FCAs rules and guidance set out above at the time it advised Mr R in                     
September 2017.
Mr Rs situation
The situation for Mr R wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options, as set out in the Time to Choose pack issued to him 
by the BSPS:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for scheme members. Many of these 
individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future of the 
BSPS and because the value of their benefits represented their sole or main retirement 
provision. In Mr Rs case, following a serious accident at work, he had a disability and 
restricted mobility  while he wanted to continue working for as long as possible, he thought 
it likely he would retire before age 65 due to the impact of his disability on his health and was 
unsure what this might mean in terms of his pension benefits.
I think the uncertainty surrounding the BSPS only served to emphasise the need at that time 
for a balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable 
advice. Its my view that any concerns Mr R had about the security of his safeguarded 
benefits shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in 
the transaction, WPS.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr R to retain guaranteed income, albeit at a lower level 
than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the BSPS2. For 
deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr R, the PPF would 
provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a 
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued 
pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative 
pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date, if then deemed suitable.
So, while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr R still had the option to retain guaranteed 
benefits in either the PPF or BSPS2.  
In response to our investigators view, WPS stated that it wasnt appropriate for her to 
consider the BSPS2 as a comparator scheme because it didnt exist at the time it advised  
Mr R in September 2017. I disagree. I think that the risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had 
receded by a large extent by that point, as the RAA had been approved and the BSPS2 was 
being proposed primarily because it could provide benefits in most situations that were 
higher than PPF benefits. The whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a 
new long-term DB scheme for former members of the BSPS which is why it was stated as an 
option in the Time to Choose communication. So I think its reasonable for me to decide this complaint on the basis that the BSPS2 was an 
option for Mr R. Based on his circumstances its my view that he wouldve been better off 
choosing the BSPS2 instead of the PPF.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that WPS shouldve started its advice process 
by assuming the BSPS2 was likely to be the most suitable option for Mr R and to only 
recommend a transfer to the PPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best interests, 
as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Transfer analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction. 
The transfer value analysis system (TVAS) rules applied at the time WPS advised Mr R. 
This required it to carry out a transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield applicable 
to the proposed transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on 
the invested transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits 
offered by the DB pension scheme on the assumption that the value of the alternative 
pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age (or other 
selected age)  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative pension will 
achieve sufficient investment growth to match the revalued pension payable by the DB 
pension scheme.
WPS calculated the following critical yield figures for Mr R on the basis he invested a 
transfer value of £454,694.53 in the recommended PPP:
Scheme At age 65 taking 
a full pension 
onlyAt age 65 taking a 
reduced pension 
and maximum tax-
free cashAt age 55 taking 
a full pension 
only At age 55 taking a 
reduced pension 
and maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS 7.17% 5.89% 12.45% 9.49%
PPF 4.15% 3.75% 7.7% 6.94%
The critical yield figures for the BSPS2 werent calculated. But it was known at the time WPS 
advised Mr R that the BSPS2 would, at age 65, pay a higher level of benefits than the PPF 
but lower than the BSPS, so the critical yield figures for the BSPS2 at age 65 likely fell 
somewhere in between the figures above.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and it
was 4.4% per year for the period to the scheme normal retirement age of 65. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year. I've taken this into account, along with 
the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Rs Medium High attitude to risk and also 
the term to age 65. Based on these considerations, I think Mr R was likely to receive benefits 
of a substantially lower overall value than the BSPS2 (even if that scheme moved to the 
PPF). I think its highly unlikely Mr R couldve achieved returns above the regulators middle 
projection rate every year until he retired, particularly as he would likely reduce his 
investment risk the closer he got to retirement.
There would usually be no point relinquishing safeguarded benefits in order to stand still, 
given the risk that the transfer might underperform. So, from an economic point of view, its questionable whether there was a reasonable prospect that Mr R would be financially better 
off by transferring on a like-for-like basis when compared to the scheme pension. And it 
seems WPS agrees because in its suitability report it stated, in reference to the critical yield 
figure of 5.89% applicable at age 65, that This, in our opinion, is not an achievable return 
based on your retirement time horizon and potential returns from the recommended fund 
portfolio. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and, conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this in the context of Mr Rs recorded 
objectives.
Mr Rs objectives
WPSs suitability report confirmed that Mr R had the following objectives and priorities:
You intend to retire at age 55 with an income of around £15,000 per annum
Your current employer is winding up their final salary pension scheme and have 
offered you the option to transfer to an alternative arrangement
You wanted me to limit my advice to this area only
You do not wish to stay with your current employers scheme, which will either be 
transferred into the PPF or into BSPS2.
Based on this, it seems to me that Mr R had two key objectives relating to the value of his 
preserved benefits in the BSPS: (1) having the flexibility to retire early from age 55 onwards 
and receive annual income of about £15,000; and (2) transfer away from the BSPS to a new 
private arrangement to obtain control of his benefits to avoid a transfer to the PPF or BSPS2. 
Ive considered these two objectives under separate headings below.
Flexibility and early retirement objective
It was recorded that Mr R wanted to retire at age 55 and receive annual income of about 
£15,000. Theres no reference to the income need increasing in payment to counter the 
effects of inflation. Its unclear how this figure was determined. It appears it was a notional 
figure put forward by Mr R rather than being based on a proper analysis carried out by WPS 
taking into account his expected expenditure in retirement  and, therefore, the required 
income need to cover this. 
Due to Mr Rs disability and his concerns about what impact this might have on his ability to 
continue working, I think its understandable that he was attracted to a flexible arrangement 
that would enable him to draw the value of his BSPS benefits as and when he required 
them. However, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and control of income 
outweighed the guaranteed and escalating income offered by the BSPS2. Ill explain why:
Mr R had suffered a serious injury at work that led to his disability many years before 
WPSs pension transfer advice in 2017. During that preceding period, despite his 
restricted mobility, Mr R had been able to continue working. Ive not seen any 
evidence that indicated his circumstances in 2017 were such that it was reasonably foreseeable that he would likely qualify for unreduced early retirement benefits due to 
incapacity either then or some point in the future. Rather, discussions centred around 
Mr Rs desire to continue working for Tata Steel for as long as possible until his 
normal retirement age of 65, but he was clear that he didnt think this would be likely 
given his disability. And so advice was on the basis that hed likely take benefits 
early, probably from age 55 which is reflected in his stated objective.
Mr R was aged 47 at the time of the advice. A key point here is that, following the 
pension transfer, he couldnt access the money in the PPP until age 55 at the 
earliest. And so, in my view, there wasnt any pressing need to transfer at that time 
given that Mr R wouldve retained the option to transfer at a later date under the 
BSPS2, if then deemed suitable and, more importantly, when his retirement income 
need could be determined with greater accuracy than at age 47. 
Mr R had been an active member of the Tata Steel DC pension scheme since                  
April 2017. The contribution paid into his DC plan was 16% of his gross annual salary 
of £38,000, which was about £6,080 in monetary terms. This would change in line 
with increases in his salary. As noted above, Mr R was aiming to continue working for 
as long as possible. But if it turned out that he did retire at 55, then over that eight-
year term to age 55, he would invest about £48,600 into his DC pension plan. This 
ignores likely increases linked to his salary and investment returns. So, I think its fair 
to say that by age 55, Mr R would have access to enough DC pension savings to 
cover about three years worth of his annual income need of £15,000  suitable 
advice wouldve been to use this money in the first instance. And if it turned out that 
he was able to continue working beyond age 55, then his DC pension savings would 
continue to grow in value with additional contributions and likely growth, until such 
time as he needed them.
In addition, Mr R had investable assets of about £1m. This was made up of about 
£600,000 held on deposit and about £400,000 in investments. So if Mr R retired at 
age 55 and exhausted his DC pension savings within a few years, I think its fair to 
say that access to this significant, liquid capital of about £1m wouldve comfortably 
met his annual income need of £15,000 until he reached the BSPS2 normal 
retirement age of 65.
Then from age 65, he could draw unreduced benefits from the BSPS2. The 
estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS at age 65 was 
£29,481 or a reduced pension of £19,538 plus tax-free cash of £130,255. And for the 
PPF, the estimated revalued annual scheme pension at age 65 was £23,805 or a 
reduced pension of £18,423 plus tax-free cash of £122,421. The estimated revalued 
scheme pension payable by the BSPS2 at age 65 wasnt calculated but, as explained 
above, was likely to be somewhere between the BSPS and PPF figures. And so, 
based on this, I think it was likely the BSPS2 would provide guaranteed and 
escalating income from age 65 in excess of Mr Rs annual income need of £15,000 
until his death. 
Finally, Mr R was on course to receive a full State pension from age 67, which 
wouldve provided another source of guaranteed and escalating income until his 
death. Any excess income from the BSPS2 and State pension could be re-invested 
for future use.
So, from age 65 onwards, Mr Rs core retirement income needs couldve been met 
by guaranteed and escalating pensions which wouldve offered some inflation 
protection unlike the recommended PPP.Based on the above considerations, I dont think there were any compelling reasons at that 
time for Mr R to relinquish the guarantees attached to his safeguarded benefits given the 
critical yields attached to the transaction and that I think his income need from age 55 
couldve been met by other sources in the first instance. This wouldve enabled him to retain 
benefits in the BSPS2 and draw these unreduced from age 65.
The alternative, blended approach Ive suggested likely wouldve enabled Mr R to achieve 
the same income objective but with significantly less risk. And it seems that WPS understood 
this at the time. In its suitability report it stated that the critical yields werent achievable and 
the following regarding when Mr R should draw benefits:
In your instance, as mentioned previously, you have substantial other assets which 
can (and likely will) be used to help generate income as and when required. When 
you reach age 55, your income requirements will be reviewed and the most suitable 
method of providing that income will be assessed, whether through your pension, 
investments or a combination of the two.
It is our recommendation, therefore, that you do not take benefits earlier than the 
normal retirement age of the scheme. Should you take early retirement, your pension 
would be greatly reduced, and this is not an advisable course of action. Your 
occupational scheme would offer much better benefits if you did retire at this earlier 
age. However, this would not provide the flexibility you have requested in how these 
benefits are taken.
So, on one hand, WPS recommended that Mr R transfer to a PPP to provide the flexibility to 
draw benefits early from age 55 onwards but then, as part of the same recommendation, 
advised him not to draw any benefits earlier than age 65 because it wasnt in his best 
interests to do so. This doesnt make sense to me. In my view, the transaction resulted in all 
the investment, inflation and longevity risk being transferred from the BSPS to Mr R for no 
clearly defined advantage. 
The available evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why future flexibility 
wouldve been a sufficiently compelling reason for Mr R to relinquish valuable benefit 
guarantees at that time, especially when it was clear his income need could be met by other 
means and the fact that the basis of WSPs advice was that he should avoid withdrawing the 
value of his safeguarded benefits flexibly before age 65.
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that shows the pension transfer to the PPP 
served any actual need, or that Mr R gained any clearly defined advantage compared to the 
alternative option of transferring to the BSPS2. And so Im not persuaded that a pension 
transfer was clearly demonstrated to be in his best interests in meeting his flexibility and 
early retirement objective.
Control objective
It was recorded that Mr R wanted to transfer away from the BSPS to a new private 
arrangement to obtain control of his benefits to avoid a transfer to the PPF or BSPS2. In the 
suitability report it was noted, You now wish to take greater control of the pension yourself 
to allow you to access the fund as and when you see fit.
I think its fair to say that Mr R was concerned about the risk that the value of his preserved 
benefits would be transferred to the PPF. I accept that such concerns were common among 
steelworkers at the time, and that it wouldve been a major motivation behind many of them transferring out. So I can understand why Mr R wanted to have control and security over his 
benefits by transferring to a PPP. 
That being said, I think that by September 2017 the risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had 
receded by a large extent by that point, as the RAA had been approved and the BSPS2 was 
being proposed primarily because it could provide benefits in most situations that were 
higher than PPF benefits. But, in any event, I dont consider a transfer to the PPF was an 
outcome for Mr R to avoid at all costs. Ill explain why.
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits.
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the
PPF, Mr R could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrasted
with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits
payable. At the time of WPSs recommendation, the PPFs financial position remained 
robust. So there wasnt any reason at that time to question the financial viability of the PPF 
to provide benefits in the future.
Had WPS advised Mr R to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained safeguarded 
benefits and retained the option to transfer to a PPP at a later date, if then deemed suitable, 
when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his retirement income 
and lump sum needs with far greater accuracy than at age 47. 
A transfer to the BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mr R had about the 
PPF. And if it was the case, in the future, that the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to 
the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly to the BSPS, members would be given the 
opportunity to transfer out to a PPP before any transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think 
that there was any immediate concern about options disappearing for Mr R or that there was 
an urgency to transfer to a PPP at that time to avoid a transfer to the PPF. In my view, Mr R 
was reliant on WPS to provide a fair and balanced assessment of the BSPS2 and PPF and 
to act in his best interests in this regard. This ought to have involved discussing with Mr R 
the features, risks and benefits of those alternative options and allaying his 
misapprehensions. 
If Mr R was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why he would accept 
the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him to unlimited downside risks where the 
loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This simply doesnt make sense to me and 
suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to understand the features, risks 
and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer.
In summary, I think that WPS failed to adequately allay Mr Rs misapprehensions and that 
he therefore made the decision to transfer to the PPP from an uninformed position regarding 
the BSPS2 and PPF options.
If properly informed, would Mr R have transferred anyway?
In potential mitigation of WPSs advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr R, if placed in a 
fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to a PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr R, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view that he was heavily 
reliant on WPS, as the professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into 
account and provide suitable, balanced advice. Mr R might have chosen to transfer against advice on the basis of his concerns regarding 
the BSPS. However, bearing in mind that many members transferred to the BSPS2 even 
though such concerns were widely held, I dont think, on balance, he wouldve insisted on 
transferring. Given Mr Rs reliance on WPS, I think its likely he wouldve accepted a 
recommendation for the BSPS2 had it advised him to take that course of action. As a result, 
I think its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for WPS to put Mr R, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. My view is
aligned with that of our investigator.
Our investigator concluded that, if properly advised, Mr R wouldve transferred to the BSPS2 
and his benefits would now be preserved in that scheme. In response, WPS stated that was 
an unfair comparison because, in its view, the BSPS2 didnt exist at the time of its advice 
and was merely a proposal and not guaranteed to go ahead. It also said that there isnt any 
evidence Mr R has suffered a financial loss.
While some information on the benefits of the BSPS2 were still to be confirmed, its my view 
that by September 2017 the risk of the BSPS falling into the PPF had receded by a large 
extent, as Ive explained above. So I think WPS shouldve considered the BSPS2 as a viable 
option. Notwithstanding this point, the FCA has stated that for redress purposes, the BSPS2 
should be used as the comparator scheme unless theres evidence the member wouldve 
chosen the PPF.
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. For the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly advised, Mr R wouldve 
envisaged accessing his substantial investable assets of about £1m and DC pension 
savings in the first instance to meet any flexible income and lump sum needs before starting 
to take his safeguarded benefits at age 65. And so its the case that I think benefits offered 
by the BSPS2 from age 65 which should be used for comparison purposes.
WPS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
WPS should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress rather 
than using third party actuarial software. This is because in its  Dear CEO letter of                   
19 May 2023, the FCA expressed its concerns about businesses using such software. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to the Mr R and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of this final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, WPS should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum;
if Mr R accepts WPSs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented; 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, WPS may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss can been taken as tax-free cash and 75% taxed according to              
Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, WPS should pay Mr R £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
its unsuitable recommendation.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require WPS Financial Group 
Limited to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I would 
additionally require WPS Financial Group Limited to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in 
full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would 
only require WPS Financial Group Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
WPS Financial Group Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R. 
If Mr R accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on WPS Financial 
Group Limited. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can 
accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman