DRN-1120756
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
What happened
This complaint is about 44 loans Sunny provided to Mr B between October 2016 and May 
2019. The amounts borrowed ranged between £50 and £850  with most of Mr Bs 
borrowing falling somewhere between these amounts. Not all the loans have been repaid 
and Mr B still owes an outstanding balance to Sunny.
Heres a table showing the first ten loans: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 13/10/2016 21/10/2016 6 £150.00 £41.03
2 18/01/2017 20/01/2017 6 £100.00 £33.35
3 10/02/2017 21/02/2017 6 £300.00 £86.60
4 18/02/2017 21/02/2017 6 £150.00 £136.51
5 28/02/2017 03/03/2017 6 £300.00 £94.05
6 07/04/2017 12/06/2017 6 £650.00 £193.42
7 27/05/2017 12/06/2017 6 £400.00 £322.26
8 24/06/2017 22/07/2017 6 £850.00 £278.32
9 16/09/2017 27/11/2017 6 £300.00 £100.00
10 07/10/2017 21/11/2017 6 £200.00 £159.12
 
Mr B said that the lending wasnt affordable and Sunny shouldnt have continually issued 
loans to him so frequently and over such a long period.When he first complained to Sunny, it made a goodwill offer to write off the outstanding 
balance. Mr B didnt feel this went far enough and so he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator investigated and came to the overall view that whilst loans 1-5 hadnt been 
unfair, the pattern of lending itself showed that from loan 6 onwards the borrowing was 
unsustainable  so Sunny shouldnt have given Mr B loan 6 or any of the loans that followed. 
Our adjudicator set out the steps he felt Sunny should take to put things right for Mr B.
Sunny didnt agree with everything in our adjudicators view letter  but it offered to uphold 
the complaint from loan 19 onwards. Sunny sent details showing how it would work out the 
refund it was willing to pay to settle Mr Bs complaint. 
We passed this information on to Mr B  but hes told us he doesnt want to settle the 
complaint on this basis and hed like a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Looking at the repayments that Mr B needed to make on loans 1-5, the amounts wouldve 
seemed relatively affordable compared with the disposable income hed declared. Given 
these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Bs circumstances at the time, and 
his borrowing history with Sunny, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to 
ask Mr B for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable before agreeing the first five loans. So I agree with our adjudicator about 
these loans  and as it seems Mr B hasnt objected to what our adjudicator has said, then 
I don't think I need say more about loans 1-5. 
But given the particular circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think by loan 6 Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. I say this because at this point Sunny ought to have 
realised:
Mr B was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. Since October 2016 he had 
taken out 6 loans in around 6 months or so. 
 
I appreciate that he repaid his loans earlier than the agreed term. But successfully 
repaying his loans doesnt mean Mr B managed to do so in a sustainable way. And 
borrowing and repaying this number of loans early suggests to me that Mr Bs 
finances were not in a stable position.
 
the loan amounts went up and down  but overall Mr B wasnt making any real 
inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 6 was the biggest loan hed taken out 
and more than four times as much as hed first borrowed from Sunny. 
 
So it wasnt reasonable of Sunny to think his situation had improved and he was now 
asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan rather than an ongoing 
problem.
 
Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr B was borrowing further 
to cover the hole repaying each previous loan was leaving in his finances and that 
Mr Bs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
 Ive carefully considered everything Sunny has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. I dont think the gaps in lending between loans 1 and 2, and loans 12 and 
13 were long enough for me to say they make any overall difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. For the reasons Ive explained, I think Sunny shouldve seen that Mr Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably by the time he took out loan 6  and it shouldve 
realised then that it was unfair to continue to lending to him. 
I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
the number of loans which Mr B borrowed was likely to have negative implications on 
Mr Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans. By that point Mr B had already borrowed six loans in a row. And any 
further borrowing was likely to be detrimental to his credit rating.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 through to 44 and Sunny should put things 
right. 
Putting things right
 If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr B as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr B having made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny 
should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr B. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr B.
 
E. The number of loans taken from the point of loan 6 means any information recorded 
about these is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 - 44 should be removed from 
Mr Bs credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
 My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans 6 - 44. Elevate 
Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) should pay Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman