DRN-3593994
The complaint
Ms O complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse money she lost as a result of a scam. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Ms O met someone online who was helping her converse in a new language she was 
learning. After a while they introduced her to investing in cryptocurrency. So she 
opened an account with Binance. 
Between December 2020 and February 2021, Ms O sent over £36,000 to her 
Binance account and then on to the investment. Although she was able to make one 
withdrawal from her investment, when she tried more she started to experience 
issues which led her to discover she had been scammed. 
Ms O asked HSBC to reimburse the funds, but it declined to do so as she had 
transferred the funds to her own account and so it said it wasnt the point of loss. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) didnt apply to the transactions as Ms O had been 
sending money to her own account; and she didnt think the payments were so 
unusual they ought to have triggered HSBCs alerts and security procedures. 
Ms O has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. Although she has 
made fairly substantial submissions, I summarise those to be that she thinks the 
payments are unusual and so HSBC should have taken action, particularly as she 
hadnt paid a cryptocurrency provider before. In doing so, she has referred to extracts 
of the CRM, the BSI guidance, and it appears published decisions from our website.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out above the key points of 
the complaint, I have read and considered whats been provided. Having done so, I agree 
with the conclusions reached by the investigator, for the following reasons. 
Under regulations and in accordance with banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting 
position is that liability for authorised payments rest with the payer even where they 
are duped into making payments. There is no dispute that Ms O authorised the 
payments. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice (such as 
that referred to by Ms O), a bank has a duty to protect its customers against the risk 
of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank 
fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to 
potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses incurred by its customer 
as a result. 
Ms O has referred to extracts of the CRM code. However, the investigator is right, the 
code doesnt apply to the transactions in question. Thats because the code only 
applies to payments made to another person; Ms O was making payments to herself, 
as the crypto account was held in her name and was in her sole control. 
I have looked at the operation of her bank account. And I agree that Ms O has made 
similar sized transactions in the months leading up to those in question, and quite 
often after money had been transferred in from another savings account. Ms O also 
made payments to new payees and international payments from her account. Whilst I 
accept these were the first payments Ms O had made to a crypto exchange, buying 
cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise which thousands of people do every day. Im 
not persuaded that, of itself, means HSBC ought to have intervened. 
But even if I thought the bank ought to have done more, and I make clear here I 
dont, Im not persuaded it was the transfer of money from Ms Os account at HSBC 
(or its alleged failure to intervene in those transactions) that has ultimately caused 
her loss. Ms O has explained that although some onwards transfers were done the 
same day, her funds were largely held in her Binance account for a couple of days 
before onward transmission. Whilst those later transfers out of her genuine 
cryptocurrency account were all part of the scam, it was those transfers that were the 
actual cause of Ms Os loss. 
I accept Ms O has lost a lot of money. But Im not persuaded HSBC has done 
anything wrong and so I wont be making an award against it or asking it to pay 
compensation. 
Overall, having considered the matter carefully, I dont find HSBC has treated Ms O unfairly 
or unreasonably by not reimbursing her losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman