DRN-1455965
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Bella Cars Limited has failed to refund the deposit she paid towards a 
car after she cancelled its delivery. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs M decided to purchase a used car from Bella Cars. Bella Cars arranged 
a credit agreement for Mrs M with a lender to finance the purchase. Mrs M signed some 
paperwork and paid a £500 deposit to Bella Cars.
The lender sent Mrs M the finance agreement via the post a few days later. Unfortunately, 
before Mrs M had collected the car and signed the finance agreement there was a 
communication breakdown between her and Bella Cars. Mrs M informed both the lender and 
Bella Cars that she now wanted to cancel the agreement. The lender confirmed in writing to 
Mrs M that it had no further interest in the car as she had cancelled the financial agreement.
Mrs M contacted Bella Cars and requested the deposit of £500 was refunded. She says she 
didnt get a response. Bella Cars says it told Mrs M that as it had incurred costs for having 
the car delivered to it and also for making some modifications so that it was ready for her to 
collect it would only refund the difference which was £57.
Mrs M complained to this service that she hadnt received her deposit back. Our investigator 
recommended that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld and that she should be reimbursed 
the full £500 deposit together with a £100 compensation caused by the distress and 
inconvenience of having to chase for the refund.
Our investigator said she was satisfied that there had been a prospective credit agreement 
in place for the car. And that the £500 deposit paid by Mrs M had been a part of the 
application and the prospective credit agreement. Under the provisions of The Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 any sum paid by the debtorunder or in contemplation of the 
agreementshall become repayable. (Section 70). Therefore, Mrs M was entitled to be 
reimbursed the full £500.
The situation had also caused Mrs M unnecessary distress and inconvenience by having to 
chase Bella Cars seeking information and a reimbursement of her refund. Mrs M had had to 
make contact with the credit provider to see if it had heard from the Bella Cars when she had 
heard nothing. And, because of this, our investigator said she thought it was fair and 
reasonable for Bella Cars to pay Mrs M £100 compensation in addition to the reimbursement 
of her deposit.
Bella Cars disagreed with the view of our investigator. It says that it incurred costs having 
the car delivered as well as making some modifications to it so that it was ready for Mrs M. It 
says the car was bought for Mrs M and it had told her these costs would apply. Bella Cars 
says it will reimburse the balance of the deposit which amounted to around £57 once these 
costs have been deducted.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I accept on the evidence before me that Mrs M was going to acquire the car with the use of 
a finance agreement. Mrs M was accepted for a credit agreement by a credit lender which 
had been sent the paperwork by Bella Cars. The credit lender sent the finance agreement to 
Mrs M later in the post.
Looking at the credit agreement I can see the cost of the car is recorded as £17,500, the 
amount of credit agreed is £17,000 and an advance payment has been received of £500. I 
have also seen proof that it was Mrs M who paid this £500 to Bella Cars when she first 
visited it.
On the evidence that I have seen I am satisfied that Mrs M had been proposed and accepted 
for a credit agreement. And that the negotiations had reached a stage where the next step 
would have been for the car to be collected by Mrs M and for her to sign the credit 
agreement. So, if Mrs M no longer wanted to go ahead, she would have to tell Bella Cars 
that she did not want to proceed, cancel the transaction and seek the return of her deposit. I 
think its reasonable to say that there was something in place that Mrs M had to withdraw 
from meaning there was a prospective credit agreement in place.
As set out the £500 paid by Mrs M had been included into the credit agreement and I think 
its fair to think that the credit application from Mrs M had been accepted based on there 
being a sum paid by her towards the overall cash price of the car. The deposit had been paid 
by Mrs M to Bella Cars in anticipation of the finance agreement and I think its reasonable to 
say that this payment was part of the credit application and the prospective agreement.
Bella Cars says its reasonable for it to deduct from this deposit the costs it had incurred 
arranging to have the car ready for Mrs M to collect. But I disagree with this view. The 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (The Act) sets out what is to happen when cash deposits are 
paid in transactions involving prospective credit agreements which is what I think the position 
is here.
Section 57 of the Act says that the withdrawal of a party from a prospective credit agreement 
will be treated as though the agreement had been made and then cancelled under section 
69. So as Mrs M had notified Bella Cars by email, prior to collecting the car, that she did not 
want to proceed she had given the required notice of her intention to withdraw from the 
prospective credit agreement.
Section 70 of the Act then says that on the cancellation of a regulated agreement (here 
thats the prospective credit agreement) any sum paid by the debtor or hirer,under or in 
contemplation of the agreement .shall become repayable.,
So, I think Mrs M paid Bella Cars a deposit to secure a car under a credit agreement, a 
finance agreement was arranged, and the stage was reached where a prospective credit 
agreement was in place. Mrs M then decided to withdraw and having regard to The Act I 
think Mrs M is entitled to her full deposit back and that it would be fair for her to receive that. 
I appreciate Bella Cars says it has incurred costs, but I havent seen anything that would 
suggest the deposit Mrs M paid wasnt an integral part of the prospective credit agreement. 
So, I think its reasonable she is refunded the full £500 that has been kept by Bella Cars. 
Ive also seen that Mrs M has tried to resolve this matter with Bella Cars, I havent seen any evidence that it responded to her enquiries. I think Bella Cars could have reasonably been 
expected to assist Mrs M when she made contact. I think this has caused Mrs M 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience and £100 compensation from Bella Cars to reflect 
the impact this has had on her is fair.
Im therefore upholding Mrs Ms complaint.  
Putting things right
Im asking Bella Cars to do the following:
Refund Mrs M her deposit of £500 together with interest at the annual rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement
Pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused by its mishandling of her cancellation of the prospective credit agreement
My final decision
  For the reasons given above Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Im asking Bella Cars 
Limited to do the following:
Refund Mrs M her deposit of £500 together with interest at the annual rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement
Pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience 
caused by its mishandling of her cancellation of the prospective credit agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman