DRN-4426239
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim she made under her travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms B held a travel insurance policy through her packaged bank account. The policy provided 
cover for various pre-departure and post-departure risks.
Whilst holding the policy Ms B was due to go on a trip abroad, with her due to take a flight 
from the UK on 14 March 2023. 
Ms B got to the airport as planned. But, at this stage realised she had lost her passport. As 
Ms B didnt have her passport, she wasnt able to board her flight  and the trip didnt go 
ahead. 
Ms B said she tried to rearrange her holiday with both the trip provider and the airline. But 
this wasnt successful. It meant she lost around £4,000  this being the cost of the holiday 
itself, and the relevant flights. 
Given Ms Bs loss, she made a claim under the travel insurance policy she held with Aviva. 
Aviva considered Ms Bs claim and declined it. Aviva said this was because:
Under the lost baggage and personal money section of the policy cover was only 
provided if the policyholders passport was lost outside of the UK. It said as Ms Bs 
policy was lost in the UK, this section therefore didnt provide any cover.
The cancellation section of the policy provided cover where a trip didnt go ahead. 
But only in certain circumstances. It said that loss of a passport wasnt one of those 
circumstances. So, this section didnt provide cover either.
Ms B didnt think this was fair. She said that when she was at the airport she was suffering 
from challenges in relation to her mental health. Ms B said she had no memory of how she 
lost her passport, couldnt process what had happened, how to get the passport back, or get 
home. Ms B therefore felt the reason she couldnt travel was because she was poorly, and 
her claim should be settled as a result.
Aviva then told Ms B to provide some medical information, evidencing she wasnt fit to fly. 
But Ms B said when she then tried to give medical information to Aviva, it ignored this, and 
didnt change its mind.
As Ms B was unhappy with Avivas position, she raised a complaint with it. Aviva responded 
and was satisfied it had dealt with Ms Bs claim correctly. 
As Ms B remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to this service to decide.
Our investigator considered this complaint. They thought that Aviva had acted fairly, and in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy by declining Ms Bs claim. 
But the investigator said Aviva had asked Ms B for medical information, and when she 
supplied some, told her it didnt need it any longer. Our investigator considered this to be 
unfair, as Ms B had to pay £30 to obtain the medical information on its request. And this 
caused Ms B distress and inconvenience. So, they recommended that Aviva reimburse Ms B 
for the cost of gaining the medical information. As well as £200 compensation.
Aviva agreed with our investigators outcome. Ms B didnt agree and remained of the opinion 
her claim for her lost holiday costs should be paid under her policy.
As Ms B didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to the parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint in part. 
I do appreciate that Ms B is likely to be disappointed with my intended outcome. But Id like 
to reassure the parties that I have considered all information submitted to me when arriving 
at my intended decision. However, when detailing my decision, Ive only referred to that 
which is necessary to explain my reasoning. This isnt intended as a discourtesy  but 
reflects the informal nature of this service.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Aviva acted in line with these requirements when it declined to 
settle Ms Bs claim.
Ive also reviewed Ms Bs policy, to see what cover it provided. On doing so, Im aware the 
relevant section of the policy would be the Cancelling your trip or coming home early 
section  as this provides cover for irrecoverable travel and accommodations costs, where a 
policyholder can no longer go on their trip, or has to cut it short.
But, as is common in policies of this nature, for these costs to be covered, the reason for 
cancelling or cutting short the trip must be one of those reasons listed in the section as 
covered. If the reason for cancelling or cutting short the trip isnt listed, then the loss isnt 
covered, and the policy wont respond.
The section lists situations such as being injured or falling ill, being made redundant or 
adverse weather stopping you from leaving your home. Ive considered whether any of the 
things listed here apply in Ms Bs situation. But Im satisfied they dont. The reason Ms B 
couldnt fly abroad was because she lost her passport. This isnt one of the reasons listed as 
covered in this section. So, Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly in declining to settle Ms Bs claim. 
It acted in line with the terms of the policy.
Ms B has said that she was taken ill  which is something this section provides cover for. 
And shes provided medical information she feels shows this to be the case. But having 
considered this, I dont agree this shows the reason Ms B couldnt continue travel was due to 
her falling ill. 
Whilst I appreciate what Ms B has said about how she was feeling, before being due to 
travel, the doctor says Ms B lost her passport and suffered from an acute stress reaction following loss of the passport. It doesnt suggest she was ill prior to losing the passport, or an 
illness was the reason she couldnt travel. So, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong by not 
settling the claim under this section.
Ive reviewed all other areas of the insurance policy to see if any of those provide cover for 
the incident Ms B is claiming for. But Im satisfied they dont provide cover for the situation 
Ms B found herself in. The section that provides cover for lost travel documents only applies 
when these are lost abroad, and not when in the UK. So, this section isnt relevant here.
Given the above, Im satisfied Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in declining to settle Ms Bs 
claim. It isnt covered by the policy terms. 
I do however think Aviva could have provided a better service to Ms B. It told Ms B she could 
get some medical information, and it would consider this. But Ms B says when she later 
gathered medical information, she was told this wasnt needed. 
Having looked at the claim notes provided to me; I can see this was the case. A claim note 
on 28 April 2023 says that the claims team shouldnt have requested medical information. 
As Aviva has accepted it shouldnt have asked for this information, it follows it should 
reimburse Ms B for the cost she incurred to get the unnecessary medical documents. Ms B 
provided evidence to show the cost of this was £30, and Aviva has accepted it should 
reimburse this amount to Ms B. 
Aviva has also agreed to pay Ms B £200 compensation. Ive thought about this too  and am 
satisfied its fair for Aviva to pay this to Ms B as well. I say this as I can see how being led to 
get medical documents, and then being told they shouldnt have been requested, would 
have been distressing and inconvenient for Ms B. It raised her expectations and led her to 
take actions she otherwise wouldnt have needed to do. Im satisfied £200 fairly recognises 
that upset and inconvenience.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision with additional comments or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. 
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Ms B the £30 she paid to get medical information. Plus, eight per cent 
interest on this amount, from the date Ms B paid to gain the medical information, until 
the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible. If HM Revenue & Customs 
requires Aviva to deduct tax from this interest, Aviva should give Ms B a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
Pay Ms B £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, as noted above.
I dont require Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman