DRN-3128339
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) 
mismanaged his credit card account. 
What happened
Mr H had a Barclaycard. He had a limit of £11,550. In January 2020, Bank B sent two 
transfers of £7,000 to Mr Hs account with Barclaycard. In July 2020, Barclaycard returned 
two payments of £7,000 to Bank B. Mr Hs Barclaycards account was then £14,001 debit 
against a limit of £11,550. In August 2021, Bank B returned one payment of £7,000 to 
Barclaycard.
Mr H complained. He said Barclaycard had made errors in returning two amounts of £7,000 
to Bank B. As a result, he had gone over his Barclaycard limit and was paying more interest 
and fees than he should have. The wrong information was advised to credit reference 
agencies and so his credit rating had gone down. He didnt have enough credit  and so 
missed out on some investment opportunities. He wanted his Barclaycard statement for July 
2020  but he hadnt received this, despite many requests. He spent a lot of time on the 
phone and emails trying to sort things out with Barclaycard without any success. They 
couldve helped him but didnt.
Barclaycard said theyd received a request from Bank B to recall two amounts of £7,000. So 
they transferred £14,000 to Bank B as requested by them. Mr H needed to speak to Bank B 
about what had happened to find out why.
Mr H brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said that Bank B were responsible for the 
issues that had arisen. This service was looking at that complaint also. Bank B had sent two 
amounts of £7,000 to Barclaycard in January 2020  this was an error by Bank B. Hed seen 
evidence that in July 2020, Bank B had asked for two amounts of £7,000 to be sent back to 
them by Barclaycard  when it shouldve been one amount. So  everything stemmed from 
the actions of Bank B. So  Barclaycard wasnt responsible.
Mr H asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
 I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Looking at what happened here, it was Bank B that caused the problems on Mr Hs account 
with Barclaycard. Bank B made the first error. Theyd agreed a balance transfer of £7,000 in 
January 2020  but sent two amounts to Barclaycard instead of one. When the issue came 
to light  in July 2020  Bank B asked for two amounts of £7,000 to be sent back to them  
not one. The evidence for this is shown in an internal email between the two banks in May 
2020 which references Amount £7000+£7000 and also remitting bank wants to recall 
both amounts of £7,000 total amount £14,000..
And  it took until August 2021 for Bank B to then send back the overpayment of £7,000. 
This clearly caused Mr H the problems hes outlined  but they were largely caused by Bank 
B  and this services investigation of Mr Hs complaint about Bank B reflects that.
However  Ive also seen that Mr H spent a lot of time contacting Barclaycard about what 
had happened. His account with Barclaycard was over its limit  the balance was £14,001 
against a limit of £11,550. And  Barclaycard had contacted him about that. And here - he 
was asking for help in sorting out the problems. To be fair to Mr H  he wasnt to know what 
had happened or who was responsible  he just wanted things to be resolved. But 
Barclaycard said that theyd simply complied with a request to return funds to Bank B  and 
so he should speak to Bank B. Thats what their final response says  and that approach 
was taken on all the messages and call notes Ive seen. Strictly speaking, Barclaycard were 
correct in what they said to Mr H  but Id have thought that given that Mr H had raised the 
problem with Barclaycard, they couldve done more. Between 10 August 2020 and 23 
August 2020, there were many calls and messages between Mr H and Barclaycard. I can 
see that some of Mr Hs language was aggressive and didnt help either party to get to a 
resolution  but also, here was a customer who had flagged a problem which had arisen, 
and needed help  and I think they couldve reacted and raised the issue with Bank B. This 
may well have got things sorted out much quicker, and reduced Mr Hs frustration. So - 
Barclaycard had the chance to help sort things out, but they didnt.
Mr H also complained he didnt get a copy of his statement for July 2020. Barclaycard said 
theyd sent this to him twice, but Mr H says he didnt get these. Also  Ive seen from 
Barclaycards records that they say that the July 2020 statement is unavailable. So  I 
agree with Mr H that this looks odd. But also  I can see that Mr H accessed the July 
statement online. So  he wouldve got the information he needed that way. So, on this 
aspect of his complaint  Im not going to take any further.
And so  while the main responsibility for what happened lies with Bank B, I do think that 
Barclaycard could have handled things better  and I think that a payment of compensation 
of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its poor customer service is justified 
and reasonable here. I understand the strength of feeling Mr H had at the time. But the 
aggressive and foul language used by Mr H isnt acceptable and wont have helped his case. 
That said, Ive outlined areas where Barclaycard might have been more helpful to Mr H in 
trying to resolve his problems and think that a nominal amount of redress to reflect those 
failings in service is appropriate.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr H said (in summary):
He said that we should force Barclaycard to correct his credit file. Hed started legal 
action against Barclaycard, who had said theyd remove the entries from Mr Hs 
credit file (as a gesture of goodwill) if he withdrew his complaint with us  he said this 
was blackmail.
He said that Barclaycard were obstructive, were difficult to contact and didnt help. 
His language was a result of the frustration he felt at Barclaycards poor service.
Barclaycard should pay more compensation.
On the matter of refund of interest (to be paid by Bank B), he questioned whether the 
award was enough.
Barclaycard said (in summary):The fault here lies with Bank B, and its for them to initiate the changes to Mr Hs 
credit file. Mr H can either pursue a legal action, or his complaint with the service, but 
not both.
When dealing with Mr H, because the fault originally lay with Bank B, theyd asked Mr 
H to contact Bank B  as it was Bank B that had to sort the transfers out. Barclaycard 
couldnt debit Mr Hs account with Bank B.
They accepted there were long wait times on the phone  which was caused by staff 
disruption due to Covid 19. But they repeated that Mr Hs language wasnt 
acceptable.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 The main fault here lay with Bank B  and Mr H should also refer to our decision regarding 
his complaint about them. It includes compensation, refund of interest and the necessary 
changes to Mr Hs credit file. In terms of the process of how matters are sorted out, the 
initiative must come from Bank B  who will need to work with Barclaycard to find out how 
much interest Mr H is due to receive; and Bank B will need to ask Barclaycard to change Mr 
Hs credit file. I will also deal with the Mr Hs comments about the amount of interest to be 
refunded in that related decision.
Barclaycard said theyd done all they could to help Mr H  as the fault lay with Bank B. But I 
still think they couldve done more  for example, by contacting Bank B to explain what had 
happened, and what was needed to sort matters out  even though I accept it wouldve been 
necessary for Mr H to authorise Bank B to return the funds to Barclaycard. So  I do think 
that Barclaycard should pay a nominal amount of compensation. I accept the reason for the 
long wait times  which weve seen from many businesses through the pandemic.
On the matter of Mr Hs legal action  I want to clarify our position. If Mr H accepts the 
decision of this service by the deadline shown, it is binding on Barclaycard to do what it says 
 in this case, pay compensation of £100. If Mr H wishes to pursue a separate legal action, 
thats for him to take advice on.
I wont comment any further on Mr Hs language  doing so doesnt help in bringing matters 
to a conclusion, but our view on what he said is recorded in the provisional decision.
(continued)
My final decision I uphold this complaint.  Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must:
Pay compensation of £100 to Mr H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman