DRN-3938937
The complaint
Ms R complains about Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and the service they 
provided after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms R held a motor insurance policy underwritten by AIC. In August 2022, Ms R contacted 
AIC to make a claim on this policy, after she was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident 
with a foreign driver. 
AIC instructed a third-party company, who Ill refer to as E, to manage the claim on their 
behalf. Part of Es involvement included providing Ms R with a hire vehicle while her car was 
being repaired. But due to the damage Ms Rs car sustained, it was deemed a total loss. So, 
AIC raised a pre-accident value (PAV) payment which was received by Ms R on 22 
September. And Ms R was taken out of hire on 23 September. But Ms R was unhappy with 
this value, as she felt her car was worth more. AIC considered Ms Rs challenge, and paid 
an additional amount on 26 September, taking the total PAV payment to £6,345 less any 
applicable deductions. Ms R remained unhappy with this, and the overall service she 
received, so she raised a complaint on two separate occasions.
Ms Rs complaints included, and were not limited to, the valuation placed on her car 
alongside delays during the claim process, the way AIC had communicated with her and the 
fact shed been removed from hire only a day after shed received her interim PAV payment. 
So, Ms R wanted to be compensated for the impact shed been caused, which included but 
is not limited to her need to take seven days annual leave as she had no vehicle to commute 
to work.
AIC responded to Ms Rs complaints and upheld them in part. They accepted there had 
been avoidable delays during the claim process and that they couldve communicated with 
Ms R with more clarity, in a timelier manner. So, they paid Ms R a total compensatory 
amount of £150 to recognise the inconvenience and upset this caused.
But AIC thought the valuation of Ms Rs car was a fair one, in line with motor trade guides 
and standard industry approach. And they thought theyd acted fairly when instructing E to 
off-hire Ms R, as the interim PAV payment had been raised. So, they didnt think they 
needed to offer anything more. Ms R remained unhappy with this response, so she referred 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought the PAV Ms R 
received for her car was a fair one and that it had been calculated in line with industry 
guidelines. And he thought the £150 AIC had already paid was a fair offer to recognise the 
impact Ms R had been caused by the delays in the claim process, and the communication 
issues during this time. So, he didnt think AIC needed to do anything more.
Ms R didnt agree, providing several comments explaining why. These included, and are not 
limited to, her continued unhappiness with the PAV payment she received. She also 
reiterated her belief that shed been removed from her hire car unfairly, and this had caused 
her to take time off work. And she maintained her belief that, due to the number of service 
issues she experienced, the compensation of £150 wasnt enough to recognise the impact 
this caused.
Our investigator considered these comments, but their opinion remained the same. Ms R 
continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. I want to reassure Ms R I have considered all of the points shes raised throughout 
the process at length when reaching my decision.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms R. I appreciate the road 
traffic accident has now been settled as non-fault. So, its not in dispute that Ms R was 
placed in a situation where her car was written off through no fault of her own.
I recognise Ms R wouldve taken out the insurance policy, underwritten by AIC, to help assist 
her in circumstances such as this. And as part of this, I recognise Ms R would have an 
expectation of AIC to ensure the process was as easy and as convenient as possible. So, 
when Ms R encountered avoidable delays and communication issues which have already 
been accepted by AIC, I can understand why Ms R would feel unfairly treated.
But for me to say AIC should do something more than the £150 payment theyve already 
paid, Id need to be satisfied that this offer of compensation didnt adequately compensate 
Ms R for the impact shes suffered. Or, Id need to be satisfied AIC have made errors, or 
acted unfairly, when valuing her car and removing her from hire. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. My decision focuses solely on the actions taken by 
AIC regarding the claim up until the date of their final response to Ms Rs complaint. So, any 
issues, or events, that have occurred afterwards havent been considered as they fall outside 
of our services jurisdiction. Im also unable to consider the service AIC provided to Ms R as 
part of their complaints process, as complaint handling is an unregulated activity and so 
again, falls outside of our jurisdiction. Instead, this decision focuses solely on the actions 
taken, and service provided, by AIC in their role as Ms Rs insurer regarding the claim she 
made on her insurance policy.
Ive first focused on the valuation of Ms Rs car, as I recognise this is a crucial aspect of Ms 
Rs complaint. Ms R doesnt think this valuation is fair. And Ms R doesnt think AIC followed 
a fair and reasonable process when coming to the valuation. 
Industry guidelines state a business such as AIC should base their valuations on the market 
valuations supplied by approved motor trade guides. And within the terms of the policy Ms R 
held, within the Market Value definition it explains AIC would use motor trade guides to 
calculate this. 
Ive seen the motor trade guide valuations AIC considered when arriving at the final 
valuation. And Ive seen the additional guide valuations our investigator sought, to corroborate AICs valuation. Having considered these, Im satisfied the final PAV payment 
Ms R received falls in line with these trade guides. And so, I think the final valuation Ms R 
has received for her car is a fair one and that it was calculated fairly, in line with industry 
guidelines and the policy Ms R held.
I appreciate Ms R feels AIC failed to follow their own internal three tier valuation approach 
she was informed about. But this three-tier approach is a business process AIC have put in 
place as part of their own commercial decision making. And our service is unable to 
comment upon the fairness of these processes, or direct a business to change them, as this 
falls under the remit of the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority. So, Im unable 
to comment upon this approach any further.
But what I can say is Id expect AIC to consider any dispute in valuation raised by Ms R. And 
I can see AIC considered Ms Rs dispute to the original PAV she was offered and increased 
the PAV payment. So, I think this is evidence of AIC acting fairly and reasonably towards Ms 
Rs dispute, and this is all Id expect them to do.
Ive then turned to Ms Rs complaint regarding the return of her hire car. It's not in dispute 
that Ms R received the interim PAV payment the day before her hire car was taken back. So, 
Ive thought about whether I think AIC were fair to arrange this, considering the terms of the 
policy Ms R held.
The terms and conditions of Ms Rs policy state that Ms R wont be eligible for a 
replacement car if stolen or considered to be a total loss/write off. So, once Ms Rs car was 
deemed a total loss, I dont think Ms R was entitled to remain in the hire car under the terms 
of the policy AIC provided.
But Ive seen within the total loss documentation AIC sent to Ms R, it explains that you may 
be entitled to a hire car for up to seven days after the payment has been raised. But 
crucially, it explains this would only be applicable if we get admission of liability from the 
third party and I recognise at this time, liability hadnt been accepted.
And even if it had been accepted, I think its made reasonably clear that the hire car would 
be available for up to seven days, not that it had to be provided for that complete length of 
time. And the wording also states this would be from when the payment has been raised 
which I think is different to when Ms R received the funds.
On this occasion, I can see the interim payment was raised on 16 September and this is 
confirmed in an email sent to Ms R by AIC. And I can see the following working day, Ms R 
received a text confirming the payment had been sent, with it being received four days later 
and crucially, within the five working day time frame explained to Ms R in AICs email sent on 
16 September.
So, I dont think I can say AIC were unfair to deem 16 September as the date the payment 
was raised. And based on this, Ms R did receive hire for the seven days she feels she was 
allowed. And even if I was to take the following working day, 19 September, as the date the 
payment was raised, I dont think AIC were obliged to provide Ms R with hire for the full 
seven days based on the policy they provided. So, I dont think I can say AIC have acted 
unfairly.
I appreciate Ms R doesnt, and wont, agree with this. And I want to reassure Ms R Ive 
considered the terms and conditions Ms R was provided by E when she took out the hire 
car. But crucially, by accepting a hire car from E, Ms R entered into a separate credit hire 
agreement. So, while E were acting as an agent of AIC, I dont think this means the terms 
and conditions of the hire agreement they put in place overrule the terms of the policy underwritten by AIC. 
And as Ms R took out a credit hire agreement, she accepted to be liable for any hire costs 
that couldnt be reclaimed from the third-party insurer. So, in this instance, Id expect AIC 
and E to ensure Ms R was removed from hire within a reasonable time frame to mitigate any 
risks of unrecoverable hire charges. Had Ms R remained in hire for longer than she did, I 
think its possible the third party wouldve disputed these charges and if these werent 
recovered, this may have placed Ms R at risk of a financial loss. So, I think AIC were acting 
in Ms R's best interest.
I also want to note that, from the date Ms R received the full PAV payment amount, it took 
her longer than seven days to source a replacement car and add it to her insurance policy. 
So, I think Ms R would always have been in a position of being without a car at some point. 
And although I appreciate why Ms R chose to take time off work due to her difficulties 
commuting, I think this was Ms Rs own choice to make. I think Ms R still had several travel 
options available to her, such as taxis and public transport, and while I appreciate these 
wouldve come at a cost to her, I think it was Ms Rs decision not to incur these costs. So, for 
all the reasons Ive noted above, I dont think AIC need to do anything more for this aspect of 
the complaint.
Ive then turned to the overall service AIC have provided when progressing Ms Rs claim. 
AIC have accepted there were avoidable delays during the claim process. And theyve 
accepted they couldve communicated with Ms R better at times, paying Ms R a total of £150 
to recognise this. So, Ive thought about whether this payment is a fair one. And I think it is.
I think it fairly recognises the delays in inspecting Ms Rs car, while also taking into account 
the fact Ms Rs claim took a total of just over six weeks from notification to Ms R receiving 
payment, during which time Ms R did have a hire car available. I dont think this is an 
unreasonable amount of time, considering the fact Ms Rs accident involved a foreign driver, 
which I think is likely to have created additional complexity to the claim.
I also think it fairly recognises the fact AIC couldve been clearer when communicating with 
Ms R. But I do think it was fair for AIC to expect Ms R to engage with the claim process and 
to hold direct communication with themselves and E where necessary. I appreciate Ms R 
feels as though she provided AIC with the information they later requested to help assist 
them recover costs from the third party. But whether or not Ms R felt it was unnecessary for 
her to provide further information, Id expect AIC to return to Ms R if they required additional 
information, or clarification on information they already held. So, I dont think this means AIC 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. Even so, I can see AIC have accepted they couldve 
explained their reasoning for needing further information with greater clarity, so I think AIC 
were fair to include this aspect within the compensation they paid.
I can also see AIC did engage with the salvage agents to try and assist Ms R in recovering 
her lost items. But again, I dont think AIC were unfair to provide the contact details of the 
agent to Ms R, nor do I think AIC can be held responsible for any party to the claims 
decision to contact Ms R directly, rather than themselves.
So, considering all of the above, while I recognise their have been aspects of AICs service 
that couldve been better and that this has been accepted, I think the £150 AIC have already 
paid is a fair one, that falls in line with what I wouldve directed had it already been made. 
So, I dont think AIC need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms R was hoping for. And I recognise Ms R has made 
several comments regarding a multitude of issues within her complaint to AIC and then while 
engaging with our process. I want to reassure Ms R I have considered all of these points and comments, even if I havent discussed them directly within this decision. As I explained 
earlier within this decision, I have only commented on the points that I feel have impacted 
the decision Ive reached. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Rs complaint about Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman