DRN-3541895
The complaint
Mr B complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund money he lost as a 
result of a scam. 
What happened
After watching an online video in which a well-known investor was apparently advertising 
cryptocurrency, Mr B left his details on a website. Shortly afterwards he received a message 
over a popular instant messaging service from someone whom he believed was the investor. 
They began to discuss making an investment. Unfortunately, Mr B wasnt dealing with the 
well-known investor, but a fraudster.
Mr B was provided with a trading account and when he made a payment he could see a 
corresponding amount credit this account. He was also added to an instant messaging group 
 apparently with other customers whod successfully traded.
  
Mr B initially sent some cryptocurrency to a wallet provided by the fraudster. That payment 
wasnt made from Mr Bs Halifax account, so doesnt form part of this complaint. He went on 
to make three payments to the fraudsters totalling £2,000 all to an account which wasnt in 
the name of the well-known investor. Mr Bs testimony suggests that a £200 payment from 
his current account was made before two payments from his savings account. But, Halifaxs 
records show that an £800 payment was made first, followed by payments of £200 and 
£1,000 the following day.
Mr B says that after the £200 payment he received a text from Halifax asking him to call 
them if he hadnt set up the payment. He says he was worried about the payment hed 
made, so tried to call Halifax but couldnt get through.
Mr B also sent a message to the fraudster enquiring about long term investments. The 
fraudster said this was possible, but only if he deposited $2,000. The fraudster claimed that if 
he deposited this amount, Mr B would receive $9,000 in a week.
Mr B says he was able to see that hed made £120 in less than 24 hours from a deposit of 
£200. He thought the returns being offered were realistic, given that the price of 
cryptocurrency was increasing significantly at the time.
After making the final payment, Mr B said he wanted to withdraw his money before 
depositing any more funds. The fraudster said that hed need to wait seven days to do this, 
but Mr B didnt believe the fraudster and reported the matter to his bank.
 
Halifax is a signatory to the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to refund victims of APP scams in all but a limited number 
of circumstances. 
In this case, Halifax argued two such exceptions to reimbursement apply  that Mr B lacked 
a reasonable basis for believing that the recipient of the payments was legitimate and that he 
ignored an Effective Warning.
Mr B referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators didnt uphold it. They 
thought the returns Mr B was offered were unrealistic and there were multiple aspects of the 
investment that he ought to have found concerning.
Mr B disagreed, he thought the bank should have picked up on the transactions that left his 
account as being unusual and suspicious and was disappointed that the bank wouldnt at 
least refund some of his losses.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered this matter carefully, I dont think Mr B did have a reasonable basis for 
believing that the recipient of his funds was legitimate and I havent found that Halifax are 
responsible for any of his loss for any other reason either. Ill explain why.
Though I havent seen the video advertising the investment, I dont doubt that this would 
have been professionally put together. But, I am concerned that Mr B thought that he was 
messaging a well-known investor, a person hed heard of. In particular, Im surprised he 
didnt find the fact that she was messaging him to discuss investments of just a few hundred 
pounds when she appears to be the CEO of a large investment management firm.
More concerning still, when he first messaged the fraudster they introduced themselves as 
someone entirely different offering foreign exchange, rather than cryptocurrency services 
(before quickly correcting themselves). I think Mr B should have found this very concerning.
And, I think Mr B did have doubts  he mentions that he was less worried after the first 
payment was visible on his trading account and also that he tried to call the bank to ask 
them about whether the scheme was legitimate. Hes also said that he made the first 
payment as a test  seemingly accepting the possibility that the investment wasnt a real 
opportunity. I think Mr B was sceptical throughout and was right to be so.
Mr B says his £200 investment yielded a significant return  more than 50%. And while he 
might have reasonably put that success down to a one-off, the exchange with the fraudster 
that he says followed ought to have caused him further, serious, concerns. The fraudster 
said they would give him $9,000 if he invested $2,000 and hed make this return in just a 
week. The value of certain cryptocurrencies may have been high at the time  but the value 
was also very volatile. The fraudster wasnt saying that he could make this much money or 
that other customers had, but rather that he would get this amount back. It appears to have 
been the promise of a guaranteed return. Mr B says he had invested in cryptocurrency in the 
months before and seems to have been well aware of the risk of trading (and losing) money. 
While Mr B may have received some limited reassurance from the testimonials of other 
customers and his conversations with them, as well as checking the authenticity of the 
website he was provided with, I dont think these steps were really an adequate way of 
establishing whether the investment was genuine and Im not sure they really convinced Mr 
B either.
 
Even accepting that some of the most concerning statements made by the fraudster may 
have taken place after Mr B had already made at least one of the payments, Im afraid I think 
there were significant red flags throughout which ought to have alerted Mr B to the possibility that he was being scammed. Furthermore, I think he recognised this possibility but decided 
to invest despite those concerns.
 
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, as I dont think Mr B had a reasonable basis for 
believing that the recipient was legitimate, I dont need to consider whether he ignored an 
Effective Warning.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax, in line with good industry practice and its obligations 
under the CRM Code, should have identified the payments that Mr B made as being so 
unusual and suspicious that it ought to have intervened before allowing them to leave his 
account. The first payment was made from his current account and was in line with normal 
account use. The other two payments were made from his savings account. While it doesnt 
appear Mr B had made any payments from his savings account directly to third parties 
before (at least, not recently), the amounts of the payments were relatively modest and I 
dont think its particularly unusual for someone to make the occasional payment directly 
from a savings account. Neither do I think the payments particularly stand out against his 
normal current account activity. So, I dont think Halifax should have identified the payments 
carried a scam risk and I dont think it made a mistake by letting the payments leave Mr Bs 
account.
Finally, Im satisfied that Halifax contacted the receiving bank to try and recover Mr Bs funds 
by reporting the loss through the agreed channel used by various financial businesses. 
Halifax acknowledges that it should have done this the day before it did, when Mr B tried to 
report the matter to it. But, Ive seen evidence from the business which received Mr Bs 
funds which show that, even if Halifax had contacted it a day earlier, it wouldnt have 
changed Mr Bs position as the receiving business would still not have been able to return 
any of his money. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mr B, but Ive decided that Halifax havent made a 
mistake by declining to refund his loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman