DRN-3076936
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK plc hasnt carried out adequate repairs to his home 
following an accident claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
I sent the parties provisional decisions in May and August 2021, in which I set out the 
following background information to the complaint and my provisional findings. 
In April 2017 a car crashed through Mr Ss garden into his house. He made a claim to AXA 
and said it has been fraught with difficulties, not least as he was told it would take two 
months but was ongoing over three years later. Mr S said his complaint is about repairs to 
the roof canopy, roof tiles and driveway as well as the stress and inconvenience he has 
suffered. 
Mr S said the front roof canopy support was broken in the incident and the roof was pulled 
away and in a dangerous condition until fixed by AXA 12 hours later. Mr S was unhappy with 
the roof repairs as he found that the roof was now not straight or level and dips from left to 
right. He said the loss adjuster claimed that the dipping in the roof centre was pre-existing 
and couldnt be corrected, and the structure had been restored as it was before the accident.
 
Mr S said that in January 2016 hed obtained a full survey of his home. He said other than 
minor defects there were no structural issues with the roof. He thinks AXA saying nothing 
could be done to restore it was contradicted by its own surveyor who said in his report; 
There is still a visible dish in the roof slope above the open canopy on the righthand side. Previously it 
had been agreed not to attempt any adjustment to the fascia board and soffit, but this now 
accentuates the dip fall across the front edge of tiles. The roofing contractor has raised the level of 
the gutter in an attempt to improve the appearance: regrettably this hasnt been successful. And 
also, it would appear that the tiles will have to be replaced to achieve a uniform colour. At the same 
time the fascia should be replaced and levelled together with any adjustments to rafters and battens 
as necessary to provide a level roof slope.
Mr S said AXAs scope of works set out checks of rafters and joists including any repairs or 
replacements. He said this indicated the possibility of damage to the roof structure, but the 
repairs left a one-inch difference to the left and the right-hand sides. Mr S is also unhappy 
with the tiles used. He said the new tiles were covered in render and some were broken and 
then replaced with tiles of a different appearance. He said this was due to the shoddy 
workmanship of AXAs contractors and provided photos in support.
Concerning the driveway, Mr S said there were no issues of trespassing onto a council path 
when the property was surveyed in 2016. He said AXAs contractors should have reinstated 
the drive to the same dimensions but had built it too high where it meets a public footpath, 
causing a trip hazard. He also said the tarmac laid had quickly disintegrated.
Overall, Mr S said the poor repairs would lower the value of his house and would cost him to 
put right in the future. He said hed spent countless hours contacting and monitoring insurers 
loss adjusters and contractors. He said this caused him stress and inconvenience alongside 
his serious health condition and a family members disability which he had told AXA about. 
By way of resolution Mr S wants AXA to fix the roof so that it is straight and level and replace 
the tiles and deal with the driveway problems. He said he would consider a cash settlement 
for this. Mr S said he should be reimbursed for his time spent dealing with the claim. 
AXA said the claim took longer than it anticipated and poor quality work didnt help. AXA 
paid Mr S a living allowance to cover costs over his normal expenditure and paid some 
compensation. AXA subsequently responded about the repairs saying it was addressing the 
problems. AXA paid Mr S further compensation for his inconvenience, which totalled £1,850. 
By June 2019 AXAs agents said all repair issues had been resolved and there was only a 
slight mis-match in the colour of the tiles. They said the tarmac was a temporary measure at 
Mr Ss request and hed previously installed a ramp on local authority land. AXA said it would 
pay Mr S to carry out adjustments to the driveway and £750 to address the rendering. They 
said roof repairs were carried out properly and Mr S was happy with them when completed. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said the surveyor found the roof 
was sloped, but said this was present before the incident and this is supported by photos. He 
said the tiles werent uniformly coloured and AXA should pay Mr S half the cost of replacing 
the tiles. The investigator said its agreed that following the driveway repair there was a drop 
to the pathway that caused Mr S difficulties. He said AXA didnt want to do the work due to 
problems with the local authority. He said it was fair for AXA to pay Mr S a cash settlement 
for him to have the work done. The investigator said that AXA had paid Mr S compensation 
totalling £1,850 for the delays and inconvenience it had caused, which he thought was fair.
AXA disagreed about the payment for the roof tiles, saying its rare to get an exact match as 
the existing roof tiles will have always weathered. AXA thought this finding would mean 
every claim with damaged tiles would lead to a 50% contribution towards the rest of the roof. 
AXA said the roof tiles will eventually weather in to match the existing tiles.
Mr S also disagreed. He said even if its accepted the roof sloped prior to the incident, the 
replacement of the supporting structures to an equal height should mean theres no slope or 
a dip to the centre. He said the roof structure hadnt been inspected and he felt it should 
have been demolished and rebuilt. Mr S said the surveyor accepted that an attempt to fix it 
had failed and so AXA should try again. He said the roof tiles were replaced, but had got 
covered in cement and some were replaced again. He said the tiles don't match as some are 
covered in cement and the colour difference isnt due to weathering. He said problems were 
due to a lack of care and skill by the contractors and tiles should be fitted to a uniform 
standard.
Mr S said AXA contravened local authority rules about the height of a driveway in relation to 
a pavement and installing a drain, and should rectify their work. Mr S said AXA hadnt made 
an effective repair as the driveway has sunk in several areas. He said AXA made an offer for 
the driveway repairs, but it would be difficult for him to find a builder to do the work. He said 
the policy doesnt oblige him to accept the offer and AXA wouldnt be guaranteeing the work.
 
Mr S said compensation of £1,850 is derisory given AXAs loss adjuster said it would take 
two months to complete but had now taken over three years. He said it didnt even pay for 
his time in dealing with the claim let alone the stress and inconvenience.
My provisional decision and the parties responses
Mr S hadnt obtained a professional report. In response Mr S obtained a surveyors report  
highly critical of the work carried out by AXAs contractors. AXA has since responded. Ive considered the report and the comments of both parties under the same headings as my 
previous provisional decision. Mr S has raised a number of other issues about his claim and 
is aware that he will have to bring these as a separate complaint to AXA if he wishes.
Roof structure and canopy
Mr Ss position is that there was no pre-existing or inherent defect in his roof, as confirmed 
by his survey prior to purchase, so if the roof isnt level following the repairs it must be either 
from the incident or the repairs that AXA oversaw. AXA described this as a very slight dip.
Mr S said AXAs surveyor recommended work to correct the fault in his roof; the fascia should 
be replaced and levelled together with any adjustments to rafters and battens as necessary to 
provide a level roof slope. The surveyor also said; The contractor has carried out works to address 
the dip in the tiled roof slope and attempted to clean off render splatter from the surface of the 
tiles. The overall visual appearance of the roof is much improved.
In separate comments the surveyor said he had no concerns about the structure of the roof 
and so I found a lack of expert evidence about problems with the roof structure. I thought it 
possible that the roof canopy was sloping before the incident and so I didnt think it would be 
fair to ask AXA to carry out further repairs for the slope and the dip. 
Mr Ss surveyors report states the large bow in the roof was likely due to the incident. And 
said that there had been no repairs to the structure and following removal of the covering, 
the structure was pushed back into place and a new supporting post installed. The report 
states that once the roof covering has been removed the structure will need to be checked 
by a structural engineer to advise on necessary repairs, and the correct sizing of the post 
support. The report states that the same engineer will also need to attend and certify that 
any repairs and alterations have been completed in accordance with their specification.
Mr Ss surveyor said the roof covering is fundamentally defective and not fit for purpose as it 
doesnt meet the required standards. The report details the faults and concludes that the 
work hasnt been carried out with reasonable care and skill, resulting in an ineffective repair 
and will need to be replaced. The surveyor also said that a building regulation application 
should have been submitted for the replacement of the roof covering. 
AXA says Mr Ss surveyor hasnt taken into account that it was concerned with a repair of an 
existing structure, rather than upgrading and correcting pre-existing defects. It said the 
distortion of the roof was present prior to the incident and can be seen in photos online, 
though it is partially obscured in an image, but doesnt appear to have worsened significantly 
after the incident. It said that consequently, correction of this defect is not its responsibility. 
AXA accepted theres issues which relate to work carried out by its contractors. And AXA 
accepts that it is responsible for costs incurred by Mr S in putting these issues right. 
Roof tiles
Mr S said he has been left with a wonky roof with tiles that looked like a patchwork quilt. 
AXAs surveyor said; It would appear that the tiles will have to be replaced to achieve a uniform 
colour. But later on, that the tiles would weather in with the existing tiles over time.
I thought it normal for a degree of mis-match in the colour of new as opposed to existing roof 
tiles. And that this will be ameliorated by weathering over time and didnt think it would be 
fair to require AXA to make further replacements. Mr Ss surveyors report doesnt address 
Mr Ss issue with the different coloured roof tiles and AXA hasnt commented further. Driveway
Mr S said AXA should have taken into account the local authoritys constraints when 
designing and installing the driveway repairs. He said that a ramp on the footpath is not 
allowed and that this wasnt appreciated at the time it was reinstated by AXAs contractor. 
Mr Ss surveyor states; the block paving has dropped in line with the tyre lines. And that the 
driveway finishes higher that the public footpath, which the local authority has said is 
unacceptable. The report states that the tarmac junction with the footpath is breaking up.
The report concludes that the block paving will need to be lifted and the sand bed removed, 
the sub base checked and where necessary improved and the block paving re-laid. It said 
the finished surface will need to be higher than the drain to ensure surface water is correctly 
drained. The level and height will also need to be adjusted to ensure that it meets that of the 
public footpath, the junction to which will need to be sealed and terminated with tarmac.
AXA has accepted that the work carried out to the drive needs the blocks to be taken up and 
re-bedded in view of its current condition. It said the pre-loss condition and layout of the 
drive, together with the connection to the pavement were equally poor. AXA said online 
photos show that the drive did not meet the level of the pavement before the incident, so any 
costs associated with alterations to the level would be Mr Ss responsibility. 
 
Compensation
I agreed with Mr S that AXA had failed to manage its contractors properly and this had 
prolonged the claim causing him a great deal of stress and inconvenience. AXA paid Mr S 
£1,850 compensation which he said didnt reflect the time hes spent on the claim. I said I 
hadnt seen any evidence of a loss of earnings and I thought the compensation was fair.
AXA has said it will offer additional compensation of £500 for the inconvenience to Mr S 
caused by the requirement for repair work to be re-done.
Conclusion
I said AXA had entered a repair contract with Mr S and our service considers that an insurer 
should follow through until repairs are complete. Mr S made it clear that he wants a repair 
rather than a cash settlement and I thought it would be fair for AXA to carry out the roof and 
driveway repairs again in accordance with my findings above and to the standards required. 
AXA has renewed its offer to cash settle the repairs to Mr S.
My provisional decision
I reached different conclusions to those I reached in my previous provisional decision. The 
main reason for this is that Mr S has provided a surveyors report and commentary about the 
damage and repairs to his home. 
Apart from the issues set out below, the report addresses several points that I hadnt dealt 
with in my previous provisional decision and that werent part of Mr Ss complaint to AXA, 
and so I cant look at these here. These include; internal decorating and finishing, flooring, 
wall construction, windows and doors, and external rendering, and Mr Ss living allowance.  
    
Roof structure and canopyIn my previous decision I hadnt found evidence of structural problems to Mr Ss roof. But I 
can see that AXAs surveyors report indicated that the roof structure should be examined for 
potential problems and this view has been taken further by Mr Ss surveyor. 
I think that following the severe impact on Mr Ss home a structural engineers assessment 
of the integrity of the roof structure is required and that repairs should follow on from this if 
required. Mr S should be aware that he will be responsible for any damage not found to be 
related to the incident. An assessment of the roof structure will first require the removal of 
the roof canopy. I think that following this the roof canopy should be replaced in a level 
condition without any dip in the roof line.
AXAs surveyor recommended work to correct the fault in Mr Ss roof, but Mr Ss surveyor 
doesnt think that any repairs to the structure have been carried out.
AXA has responded to Mr Ss surveyors report with a stronger line on the cause of the dip in 
the roof, as pre-existing. In my previous decision, I thought it possible that the roof canopy 
was sloping before the incident and so I didnt think it would be fair to ask AXA to carry out 
further repairs for the slope and small dip. Having seen Mr Ss surveyors report and AXAs 
comments and photos, I now feel that it is more likely than not that the roof slope and dip or 
at least the extent of this is to do with the claim incident.
AXA accepts that it is responsible for costs incurred by Mr S in putting the workmanship 
issues right concerning his roof. But this is a bit too vague to determine the extent of the 
liability that AXA accepts for the required work.  
Roof tiles
I can understand Mr Ss concerns about the roof tiles. Ive seen his surveyors photo, but I 
remain of the view that the degree of mis-match in the colour of new as opposed to existing 
roof tiles is acceptable. And that this will be ameliorated by weathering over time. Im still not 
minded to require AXA to make further replacements of the tiles.
Driveway
AXA agreed that there are workmanship issues to do with the driveway, but doesnt accept 
responsibility for levelling it to the footpath as it says this issue was pre-existing. AXA said 
online photos show that the drive did not meet the level of the pavement pre-loss, so any 
costs associated with alterations to the level would be Mr Ss responsibility. AXA accepts 
that the paving blocks need to be taken up and re-bedded on the drive. 
Im pleased AXA accepts the need to re-do the driveway repairs. Im not convinced the pre-
incident drive was out of level with the footpath. And I remain of the view that the work needs 
to be to the standard required for lasting and effective repairs. The work also needs to meet 
local authority requirements ensuring the drive meets the level of the footpath and doesnt 
encroach on local authority land, and I currently think that AXA should pay the cost of this 
work.
Compensation
I can well understand the time Mr S has spent in pursuit of his claim. This is more than would 
normally be expected in his situation, but he hasnt provided any evidence of lost income as 
a consequence. AXA was aware of his difficult personal and family circumstances and has 
previously paid him £1,850 for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered. Since then Mr S has had further frustration and AXA has offered a further £500 in respect of 
this. I think its unfair to Mr S that the work has had to be re-done and in places will be re-
done again. But overall, I think the total of £2,350 compensation is a reasonable reflection of 
the great amount of distress and inconvenience that AXA has caused him. 
Conclusion
AXA agrees that Mr Ss surveyors report highlights workmanship issues relating to the roof 
canopy and the driveway that it is responsible for putting right. But AXA doesnt accept 
liability for issues that it says were present prior to the claim. Its not very clear to me what 
AXA is accepting liability for and it would help if it were to give more details in response to 
this decision. 
Mr S has said that he wants AXA to carry out the repair work so that he can benefit from the 
warranty that it offers. I think this is reasonable and so I expect AXA to carry out the further 
repairs that are required. And because Mr S has obtained a surveyors report that has 
changed my, and AXAs thinking about his claim I think AXA should reimburse him for the 
cost of the report. Mr S will need to provide evidence of the cost (£1,980) to AXA.
As an alternative, AXA said that if Mr S or his surveyor send the costs for this work, AXA will 
reimburse repair costs, as well as surveying costs relating to its involvement in overseeing 
these issues. AXA said this approach better serves Mr S, given his previous concerns about 
AXAs suppliers and that he has found a surveyor to work with. Mr S may wish to respond to 
this offer when he replies to this provisional decision. 
My provisional decision
I intend to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to carry out the following.
Remove the roof canopy and obtain a structural engineers report on the roof 
structure and cause of any damage that is found. And then to carry out repairs linked 
to the claim incident that are deemed necessary by the engineer.
Re-fit the roof canopy so that it is level and without a dip in the roof line.
Carry out the repairs to Mr Ss driveway again to the standard required by the local 
authority. 
Reimburse Mr S for the cost of the surveyors report, which he says was £1,980. Mr 
S will need to provide evidence of payment to AXA.
I also intend to require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr S additional compensation of £500 
that it has offered for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties responded to the provisional decision and I have set out the main points and my 
findings under the headings used above. Roof structure and canopy
AXA said my decision is inexplicable  the pre-existing nature of the defect to the roof, 
namely the dip, is visible in a number of photos that are publicly available online (and 
included in its submission). And it said the surveyors report provided by Mr S includes no 
evidence to suggest that the roof canopy dipped as a result of the collision impact. 
Mr Ss surveyor stated, The roof structure was clearly compromised by the movement caused by 
the impact and the result of no repairs or strengthening being carried out is that the structure has 
distorted resulting in a large bow in the centre of the canopy. Mr S said there was no pre-existing 
dip in the roof line and his surveyor reported nothing of the kind from his 2016 inspection.
Mr Ss surveyor stated that the large dip in the roof canopy was directly due to the lack of 
repairs following the collision. AXA said the photos showed the obvious presence of the 
defect before the incident. Ive re-looked at the photos, but I remain in disagreement with 
AXA as I dont think they obviously demonstrate the dip in the roof canopy that AXA said 
was already present. I remain of the view that the roof canopy should be replaced as part of 
the claim without any dip in the roof line.
AXA has partly clarified the work it is prepared to cover as that listed in Mr Ss surveyors 
report. AXA says it accepts the following as forming part of the claim.
The verge tiles are not mechanically fixed and the mortar is of a weak mix and has already cracked. 
The upstands are inadequate as the render finishes as low as 30mm from the surface of the roof 
whereas a minimum of 150mm is required to prevent water splashing back above the render.
The eaves arent correctly terminated onto a fascia board as there is no ply support in place. The 
result is that the felt has sagged behind the fascia board, meaning that any water that creeps under 
the lap of the tiles will not discharge to the gutter. The breathable membrane is not correctly 
terminated or protected at the eaves by the installation of the felt. Rainwater pipe isnt connected to 
the drain and is next to the base of the timber supporting post.  
I remain of the view that AXA should carry out an expert assessment of the repairs required 
to Mr Ss roof that are related to the impact from the claim incident and then deal with the 
structural roof issues. AXA should bear in mind Mr Ss surveyors conclusion that, Once the 
roof covering has been removed the structure will need to be checked by a Structural Engineer who 
will be best placed to advise in regard to the necessary repairs, correct sizing and support of the post 
support, implications and costs. 
I think AXAs suggestion that Mr Ss surveyor remain involved to oversee and approve the 
repairs is a sensible precaution against future disagreement about the work required and 
building regulations that apply.
Roof tiles
AXA agreed to my provisional decision that it didnt need to take action concerning the 
colour of the tiles. I note that it is prepared to re-fix the verge tiles as mentioned above.Mr S said the colour of the tiles is now irrelevant as AXA shouldnt have used the tiles it did 
for a roof of that pitch. He said this was identified by his surveyor, The roof covering is 
fundamentally defective and not fit for purpose as does not meet the requirements of BS 
5534:2014+A1:2015 Slating and tiling for pitched roofs and vertical cladding. Code of 
Practice).
So far as the colour of the tiles is concerned I remain of the view that this does not need to 
be altered. AXA hasnt had the opportunity to consider Mr Ss point about whether or not the 
tiles used in the repair meet British Standards requirements. It follows that I cant require 
AXA to replace the tiles as this has not been reviewed as part of Mr Ss complaint. But in 
assessing the roof repairs I think AXA should review the appropriateness of the roof tiles in 
the light of Mr Ss surveyors concern. 
Driveway
AXA has now agreed to my provisional findings that it carry out the repairs to Mr Ss 
driveway again, to the standard required by the local authority. Mr S said the work needs to 
be re-done in its entirety to guarantee a lasting repair and I agree.
As the parties are agreed about my provisional findings about the driveway I see no reason 
to change my provisional decision. 
Compensation
AXA agreed to my provisional findings about the compensation. Mr S said hed had to take a 
lot of time off work to progress his claim and has lost paid holiday. He didnt think the 
compensation was proportionate for the stress and inconvenience he and his family have 
suffered. He asked if the compensation covers the issues that Ive addressed in my decision 
and no others, and I can confirm that this is correct.
The compensation we award is not a punishment of the business or an attempt to exactly 
calculate the distress caused, its about a reflection of the impact suffered by Mr S over and 
above that normally associated with a large claim. I acknowledge and sympathise with Mr S 
for the distress and inconvenience he has faced, but I remain of the view that the 
compensation of £2,350 offered and paid to him by AXA for the poor service on the claim by 
AXA and its agents is fair in all the circumstances. 
Conclusion
Where the parties to a claim disagree about the damage and rectification of a property we 
rely on the expert evidence provided. The evidence of Mr Ss surveyor has influenced the 
outcome of his complaint and I require AXA to act to satisfactorily resolve Mr Ss claim. In so 
doing AXA should be mindful that all repairs it carries out should be effective and lasting.
AXA has agreed to meet the cost of Mr Ss surveyors report and suggested the surveyors 
services are retained to oversee and approve the work. If required by Mr S, AXA said it can 
propose a contractor to complete the work, but his surveyor would sign-off the completed 
work with both parties agreeing the conclusions reached by the surveyor.
AXA has renewed its offer to cash settle the repairs to Mr S. Mr S said he will consider this 
once the details of what the repairs will entail is made clear, but he reserves the right to 
insist on a repair. I agree that Mr S has the right to insist on AXA carrying out the repairs and 
I agree with AXAs suggestion that Mr Ss surveyor be a party to the repair process.Mr S has made points about the living allowance he was paid by AXA and other repairs not 
dealt with here as they didnt form part of his complaint which I considered. It is open to Mr S 
to bring a further complaint about these points to AXA if he wishes. I would request AXA 
consider carrying out any repairs that are related to Mr Ss claim but not resolved here where 
necessary to complete the work identified in this decision..
My final decision
For the reasons I have given here and in my provisional decisions I partly uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK plc to take the following action. 
Pay for the removal of the roof canopy and obtain an expert report on the roof 
structure and cause of any damage that is found. And then to carry out repairs linked 
to the claim incident that are deemed necessary by the expert report. Or to pay Mr S 
a cash settlement for him to carry out the repairs if this is what he wishes.
Re-fit the roof canopy so that it is level and without a dip in the roof line.
Carry out the repairs to Mr Ss driveway again to the standard required by the local 
authority. 
Reimburse Mr S for the cost of the surveyors report, which he says was £1,980. Mr 
S will need to provide evidence of payment to AXA.
I also require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr S additional compensation of £500 that it has 
offered for the distress and inconvenience it has caused him. This should bring the total 
compensation paid to Mr S to £2,350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman