DRN-2614173
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1995 with a mortgage. 
The policy provided cover for Mr B if he couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
From the evidence I have seen I dont think that Nationwide recommended the policy to Mr 
B, so the key question I need to consider is:
Did Nationwide give Mr B information that was clear, fair and not misleading in order to 
put her in a position where he could make an informed choice about the insurance he 
was buying?
If the answer to this question is no, then I need to consider whether Mr B is worse off as a 
result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not taking out the policy  
if there had been no problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr B has told me he wouldnt have agreed to buy the insurance, and Ive noted everything 
hes said. Nationwide hasnt been able to provide much paperwork from when the policy was 
sold, which isnt surprising given the amount of time thats passed. Im mindful that these 
events took place many years ago. Without anything else to support what Mr B has told me, 
I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that Nationwide didnt give him a choice about 
buying the PPI.
Mr B satisfied the eligibility requirements of the policy when taking it out.
I cant be sure that Nationwide pointed out to Mr B all of the things that the policy didnt cover 
(such as the exclusions affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions or the self-
employed). But as Mr B could benefit from the full extent of the cover, I dont think he 
needed better information about the policys exclusions. 
Mr B says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because of 
sickness or accident. But as Ive already said, I dont think Nationwide advised Mr B on 
whether or not to take the PPI. So it wouldnt have had to check whether his existing 
arrangements meant the policy was suitable for him. Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded 
that Mr Bs existing arrangements meant the PPI policy was mis-sold.
I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated to Mr B before he agreed 
to take it. But the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it 
unlikely he would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had 
been provided.
In summary, I think Mr B agreed to take out the cover, knowing he didnt have to. And given 
it provided broadly what I think he expected when he agreed to it, I dont think he would have 
made a different decision (and decided against taking it out) if he had been better informed.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman