DRN-3029280
The complaint
This complaint is about a personal loan payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2009. Miss B says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Bs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Santanders offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Miss B paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Miss Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Bs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Bs 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Santander should have disclosed 
the commission it received  but that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
Miss B has said the PPI was included as part of the personal loan package, but I think 
Santander made it clear that Miss B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because the personal loan and the PPI were applied for during a 
phone conversation. And while Santander hasnt been able to give us a recording of the 
call it has been able to give us a copy of the script it says its representative would have 
used during the phone call. I have no reason to think the representative didnt follow the 
script during this sale in the usual way. And I can see from the script that it would have 
been made clear to Miss B that she had a choice about taking the PPI, so I dont think it 
likely it was included as part of the personal loan without her knowledge. 
And Santander has given us a copy of the personal loan agreement that was sent to 
Miss B after the phone call which Miss B needed to sign, date and return. I see that there 
is a separate section on the agreement entitled Payment Protection Insurance followed 
by some details about Miss Bs policy. I can see the PPI is referred to as being optional 
and that Miss B has ticked the relevant box to say, I confirm I am eligible for the 
insurance and wish to purchase this insurance cover. Miss B has also signed this 
section and separately from the overall credit agreement. So, taking all of this into 
account, I think it was made clear to Miss B during the sales phone call that the PPI was 
optional. Otherwise I would have expected Miss B to have questioned its inclusion if she 
hadnt agreed to take it when she received the loan agreement which was sent to her 
after the call.  
Santander didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B  so it didnt have to check that the PPI 
was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Miss B enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Santander gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss B. Although Miss B 
says she had a medical condition sometime before the policy was taken out, I cant see 
there were any exclusions or limitations on the policy for pre-existing medical conditions. 
There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. It 
also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss B would have declined the 
cover had Santander done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Miss B would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting, and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Bs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Bs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Bs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Bs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Santander should have disclosed the commission it received 
and that Santanders offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Santander didnt tell Miss B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share  introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin  which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Santander and Miss B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Santander didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share in 
this case. 
I dont think Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss B because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
Putting things right
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Miss Bs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary they have said Miss B should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Santander failed to tell Miss B about the high commission and profit-share rates 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshippaid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say 
that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Miss B wouldnt have taken out the 
policy had they known about the level of commission and she should receive a refund of all 
the premiums she paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for   
Miss B in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Santander not disclosing the high level 
of commission to her before she purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Miss Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude that she wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Santanders failure to disclose the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Santander to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Miss B paid for her PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Miss B 
with the policy which Ive concluded above she would still have taken out if Santander had 
done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So, I consider that Santanders offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Miss Bs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Santander UK Plc should pay Miss B an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman