DRN-2689732
The complaint
Mr B complained that his claim for storm damage under his home insurance policy with 
Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) was unfairly declined.  
What happened
Mr B contacted Fairmead to make a claim under his policy when the felt from his flat roof at 
his home blew off in a storm. Some other roof tiles were dislodged by the felt being detached 
from the roof.
Fairmead arranged for the damage to be assessed by its contractors and based on its 
findings, decided to decline the claim. It said the damage was due to wear and tear with the 
high winds highlighting this. Mr B complained and on Fairmeads advice Mr B provided a 
report from his own building and roofing contractor and paid for his contractor to repair his 
roof. The report from Mr Bs contractor provided a different view, concluding that the felt roof 
had been in good condition and its opinion was that the storm had been the primary cause of 
the damage to the roof.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint is upheld. He reviewed the reports 
provided by both parties and found the report provided by Mr B to be more persuasive and 
concluded the storm was the main cause of damage to the roof. He asked Fairmead to settle 
the claim, less the policy excess and he asked Fairmead to add on 8% simple interest from 
the date Mr B paid his roofing contractor to the date the claim is settled.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened? 
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Winds were recorded at over 60mph in Mr Bs area, which is above the threshold defined in 
the policy for storm conditions. So yes, I agree storm conditions occurred.
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
The damage Mr B claimed for is for the storm winds blowing off the felt covering to his roof 
and other associated damage, so logic suggests that high level storm force winds, such as 
those experienced on the day of the claim might have damaged the roof felting. Therefore, I 
think its reasonable to assume that the damage claimed for was consistent with damage a 
storm typically causes.  
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I need to see if the storm was the dominant cause of the damage to the roof or whether the 
storm simply highlighted an existing problem with the roof. Fairmead rejected the claim due 
to wear and tear. If there was wear and tear evidenced, then Fairmead would be fair in 
declining the claim as it had an exclusion within the policy that sets out its not obligated to 
pay for wear and tear or damage that happens gradually over time. I will examine this by 
reviewing the reports provided by Fairmead and Mr B.
The report provided by Fairmeads representative stated, The photos of the roof deck along 
with attending contractors opinion suggest that over a period of time, some of the roof felt 
has de-bonded from the roof deck causing it to uplift in winds. The remaining felt has 
eventually peeled off the roof deck as the winds persisted. The felt appears to have been in 
good order as it has not torn during the event. This led it to conclude the recent weather 
conditions had merely highlighted a pre-existing issue with the roof, which is why it declined 
the claim.
For Fairmead to rely on an exclusion clause, it is required to provide evidence to justify its 
stance. For this complaint, I think Fairmead has provided a reasonable and logical theory as 
to why the de-bonding of the roof felt may have contributed to the damage, but I dont think it 
has provided enough evidence to prove that this was the most likely cause of the damage. 
The contractor who assessed the damage on site has not emphasised in his report that the 
bonding was inadequate. If this was to be the main reason for Fairmead to reject the claim, I 
would have expected a more detailed commentary from the onsite contractor to support this 
position. Fairmead later made this argument using the available photographs provided and 
after our investigator made his recommendation.
I have also viewed the photographs and whilst I can see some areas of the felt has a 
different shade of colour to it, I dont think Fairmead can definitively say this is due to 
inadequate bonding and therefore, I dont think it is fair for Fairmead to use this to rely on the 
exclusion clause. My view on this is supported by other information I have seen from internal 
memos between Fairmeads representatives. One memo states: We are unable to provide 
any technical evidence. It is basically experience that leads us towards it being older, but we 
cannot prove it. Another memo recognises that the felt roof had been coated in bitumen two 
years earlier, which makes me think Mr B had made efforts to maintain his felt roof to a 
suitable standard and to the best of his knowledge he would have thought it was in a good 
condition. I dont think Fairmead have provided enough evidence to support its own theory 
and in my mind it has not reached a reasonable conclusion. So, I dont think it has been fair 
in declining the claim based on the exclusion clause.
I have also reviewed the report provided by Mr Bs contractor and I find it to be compelling. 
His contractor said the storm had caused the damage. Storm force winds of over 60mph are 
rare, so in the absence of other primary factors, I dont find it difficult to consider that winds 
of this strength are likely to have been the main cause of damage. The building and roofing 
contractor provided a first hand and detailed account of what happened. The contractor said 
I can confirm that the felt had been in good condition due to it not tearing and coming down 
in one piece. I can also confirm Mr Bs roof had no roof leaks. The strength of bonding of the 
felt had been in good condition, proof of this was that it had ripped off the existing drip laths 
that had been installed when the roof had been built also the remaining felt had held up half its weight without peeling from the roof under storm conditions for over half an hour. Also, 
parts of the board had come off attached to the felt. The photo provided is consistent with 
what the contractor said. The fact that some of the felt bonding held up stronger than the 
fixings of the laths, as well as the bonding showing good resistance to the storm once half of 
the felt had become detached suggests to me that the bonding was in reasonable condition. 
I think the contractors report is the most plausible description of what happened.
Therefore, having considered the evidence, I dont think wear and tear has been the main 
factor in the roof being damaged. I think it is much more likely that the storm winds were the 
main factor in causing the damage to the roof.
As I think the answers to the three questions I set out at the start are yes, I uphold this 
complaint. I require Fairmead to settle the claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy. 
As Mr B has already paid for his roof to be repaired, he has been without this money, so I 
think it is fair for Fairmead to pay 8% simple interest from the date of his payment to the date 
the settlement is paid.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Settle Mr Bs claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy (and on production of 
valid receipts).
Add 8% simple interest* from the date Mr B paid his contractor to the date the 
settlement is paid.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Fairmead Insurance Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Fairmead must give a certificate showing how much tax its taken off it if Mr B if he 
asks for one.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman