DRN-2905500
The complaint
Mrs H (Director) and Mr J (Business Representative) bring this complaint on behalf of W (a 
company). W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) made payments 
from its bank account, despite it having cancelled the instructions. 
What happened
W have a regular payment instruction for an overseas beneficiary and in May 2020 W used 
its online banking facility with NatWest to cancel the instruction. Mrs H and Mr J says a 
payment was still made the following month and despite her complaining about this, a further 
payment was made to the same beneficiary in July 2020 and says her complaint was 
misplaced by NatWest. Mrs H and Mr J says that NatWest then wrote stating W wouldnt 
have been able to cancel foreign standing order payments via online banking  this needed 
to be done directly with the bank. Mrs H and Mr J says this has caused the business 
financial difficulties as NatWest have refused to refund these payments and this has added 
to Mrs Hs health issues.
NatWest have since accepted that the payment in July 2020 should have been cancelled 
when the complaint was raised and have apologised and agreed to refund this. NatWest 
maintain the original payment in June 2020 had not been cancelled by W as this cant be 
implemented via online banking. NatWest have offered £100 for the confusion over the initial 
complaint and agreed to waive any related charges.  
W werent happy with NatWests response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and agreed the payment in July 2020 
should be refunded, but the earlier payment made in June 2020 wasnt correctly cancelled 
by W. As a result, the investigator felt NatWest had acted fairly in offering to refund the July 
payment and the £100 by way of apology - the investigator explained W couldnt experience 
stress as a limited company, but NatWest should pay interest on the amount debited in July 
2020, until it was refunded. 
W didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be problematic and inconvenient for W to have payments made 
from its bank account, when it believed it had given instructions to cancel them. When 
looking at this complaint I will consider if NatWest acted unreasonably when it refused to 
refund the international standing instruction paid in June 2020, and only refund the payment 
made in July 2020.
I am aware a complaint has been made against this service, but I wont be commenting on 
this, as the matter is being dealt with separately, I will only consider the complaint made 
against NatWest brought by W.
The first thing to say is when making a full and impartial decision here, I have to take into 
account the fact this happened during the Covid pandemic which affected both businesses 
and customers alike. Mr J has provided this service with comprehensive details of the course 
of events here and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point he 
has made as I dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. 
Thats not to say I havent considered everything hes said  I have. But its just that I dont 
need to comment on each individual point here in order to reach a decision on whats fair 
and reasonable.
Mr J makes the point W are generally dissatisfied with NatWests online banking systems 
and its software capability. While I understand that Mr J doesnt feel this works in the way he 
would wish, its not the role of this service to tell banks, like NatWest, how their systems 
must operate. What I have considered here is whether or not W gave instructions to cancel 
an international standing order and if NatWest failed to carry out those instructions. 
Mr J has been clear to this service, in an email and covering document dated 11 June 2020, 
the critical point of this case surrounds the fact the business believed they had cancelled 
the international standing order in question, in May 2020. Mr J says Ws instructions hadnt 
been carried out by NatWest. To support this Mr J provided this service with a copy of a 
screen shot from Ws online banking service with NatWest, in which he highlighted the 
cancel standing order option he selected at that time. Mr J says on this screen of Ws 
online banking, under the Standing orders section, the payee details of the international 
standing order appeared here and on selecting the cancel standing order option, the 
payment details then disappeared from the screen. 
Its important to say, that I have been provided with information from NatWest to say the 
screen shot which Mr J refers to, only shows domestic sterling standing orders and not 
international standing order payments. So, while Mr J believes he cancelled the international 
standing order from this screen, that simply wasnt possible here. In fact, NatWest have told 
this service, that international standing orders are not visible from Ws online banking facility 
at all, only individual international payments instigated by W, and those are on a separate 
screen on their online banking system. Amongst the information provided to this service, 
included a screen shot that NatWest refer to, it details a Recent payments list for individual 
international payments made in the past six months. While I cant say with any certainty it 
was from this screen that Mr J viewed the international beneficiary he refers to, I am satisfied 
in all probability this is the most likely explanation. 
Even so, this recent payment list screen, wouldnt allow W to cancel the international 
standing order instruction, which is held centrally by NatWest, only to cancel any individual 
international payment beneficiary details, or for example any one-off payments W may have 
scheduled to be paid within the next 30 days. I say this because W made an individual 
international payment via their online banking, in February 2020 to the same payee and the 
details of which would have been visible on that screen in May 2020, at the time Mr J 
believed he had cancelled the international standing order. So, having established it wasnt 
the standing order screen from where Mr J believed he had cancelled the international 
standing order, its fair to suggest the screen Mr J accessed at that time was the recent 
payment list screen, which does give options to view or delete an international beneficiary 
or view or cancel a scheduled international payment.Neither of these options would have allowed W to cancel the international standing order 
instructions only to amend the beneficiary details or cancel a scheduled international 
payment that had been input online by W. So, while I understand Mr J feels if he hadnt 
cancelled the standing order instructions as he thought he had, some alert message should 
be prompted - Im not persuaded by that argument as its unreasonable to expect NatWest to 
advise its customers of something that in effect never happened. I do have some sympathy 
with W in that they honestly believed they had cancelled the international standing order 
when they did, and they believe the online banking screens should be clearer when going 
through a process like this. That said, if there were any doubts as to whether the payment 
had been cancelled, given W hadnt been given notification it had, I dont think it would be 
unreasonable to expect someone at W to have telephoned NatWest to establish what 
instructions were necessary to arrange this. What seems to have happened here is W had 
made the assumption they had correctly carried out the cancellation, but unfortunately, they 
hadnt.  
I do understand this happened during the Covid pandemic and this would have been a 
difficult time, especially for Mrs H given her health issues. I am aware, however, Mrs H did 
subsequently telephone NatWest in June 2020, so its reasonable to say the pandemic didnt 
play a major part in the businesses ability to contact its bank here. It follows I cant see this 
materially affected why the international standing order wasnt cancelled - this is more of a 
case of W believing they had cancelled it online, when sadly that wasnt possible. 
While I can understand the process of cancelling an international standing order by directly 
contacting NatWest may be inconvenient to W, I cant tell NatWest they must change their 
online banking systems to accommodate what W would like it to perform, when it comes to 
cancelling such payments. What is important to say here, is Mr J told this service he 
cancelled the international standing order from the screen shot he provided us with, but that 
couldnt have been the case for the reasons I have given. 
That said, and I understand NatWest now agree, it should have offered to refund the July 
2020 international standing order once they were made aware by W, not simply to offer to 
recall the payment. 
So, like the investigator, I uphold the complaint in part, in so far as the payment made on 15 
July 2020 totalling £1132, should be refunded along with 8% simple interest on that sum until 
it is settled. NatWest have already paid compensation of £100 for their mistake here and 
refunded the associated charges, which I am satisfied is fair and reasonable.
While W will be disappointed with my decision, I feel this is a fair outcome here. 
Putting things right
I instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to refund W £1132, plus 8% simple interest on this 
sum, from 15 July 2020 until it is refunded.  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct National Westminster Bank Plc to refund W £1132 plus 8% simple interest on this 
sum, from 15 July 2020 until it is refunded.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman