DRN-1791178
The complaint
Mr L complains that AWP P&C SA acted unfairly and unreasonably by declining his claim for 
medical treatment under a travel insurance policy. He wants his claim paid and 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the refusal to pay. Mr L later added a 
complaint that the policy had been mis-sold, and AWP agreed to allow it to be added to this 
complaint.
What happened
Mr L had a travel insurance policy with AWP P&C SA. While abroad in 2019, he needed 
medical treatment due to him suffering a stroke. But Mr L's claim for the costs to be met 
under the travel insurance policy was declined by AWP as he had a pre-existing medical 
condition of hypertension. The policy didn't cover claims relating to pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Mr L complained to AWP and sent evidence that his treating doctors confirmed that his 
stroke was due to a new condition of atrial fibrillation. AWP said that there was an indirect 
link between the stroke and hypertension. It added that the terms and conditions of the 
policy said that there was no cover for claims directly or indirectly arising from medical 
conditions for which the policyholder was receiving prescribed medication, amongst other 
exclusions. AWP pointed out that the policy went on to say that an indirectly related claim 
was defined as "a medical problem that was more likely to happen because of another 
medical problem you already have". AWP said that its chief medical officer said hypertension 
was a risk factor in developing atrial fibrillation. As this was the condition that the treating 
doctors said caused the stroke; the claim was declined as hypertension had been indirectly 
related to the stroke.
Mr L complained to us and said as he was being successfully treated for the hypertension, 
he didn't think it was a pre-existing medical condition. He also wanted to add a complaint 
that the policy had been mis-sold as it hadn't been highlighted to him during the sales 
process that pre-existing medical conditions were excluded; AWP agreed to the new point 
being considered by this service.
The investigator's view was that AWP wasn't at fault and said that despite the medication, 
the hypertension was a pre-existing medical condition. She accepted that the terms and 
conditions of the policy did exclude claims directly or indirectly relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions for which regular medication was being prescribed and noted that it 
highlighted the risk of a stroke for those with high blood pressure. The investigator said Mr L 
was receiving medication to treat high blood pressure and that the NHS said there was a link 
between hypertension and atrial fibrillation. She thought that it was reasonable for AWP to 
suggest the hypertension was indirectly related to the stroke.
The investigator also said that she didn't think the policy had been mis-sold to Mr L. The 
terms and conditions were sent to him and could've cancelled the policy within the 14 day 
cooling-off period.Mr L disagreed. He said the terms and conditions of the policy had been designed to allow 
AWP a "get-out" and he didn't accept that he had been suffering from hypertension as he 
was being successfully treated as his blood pressure was normal at the time. Mr L said that 
he only had the information about the policy after purchase and the website he used didn't 
give him enough information. The investigator pointed out that Mr L chose the policy himself 
as it wasn't one recommended to him through advice and there was information on the 
website about the policy as shown by screen-shots.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When I refer to AWP, I'm also referring to 
its agents.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AWP has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy Mr L took out was not designed to cover pre-existing medical conditions; other 
policies exist to cover such matters. This is why the terms and conditions do effectively rule 
out cover for many pre-existing medical conditions. Insurers are able to decide what they will 
and won't cover as long as the policy terms and conditions set out the position clearly.
Mr L didn't receive advice about the policy and I've seen both the screen-shots of the 
website and the summary of the policy's terms and conditions, which were available to him 
to view before purchase. I note that the summary highlighted that pre-existing medical 
conditions were excluded.
And Mr L was sent the policy terms and conditions and the summary on purchase by email. 
The policy not only highlights the exclusion of pre-existing medical conditions, but puts the 
definition of "indirectly related to" in a box. Mr L could've cancelled the policy within the 
cooling-off period but didn't do so. I can't say that the policy was mis-sold to Mr L as the 
information about pre-existing medical conditions and their exclusion was available to him on 
the website and highlighted in the policy and the summary. AWP provided the information Mr 
L needed to make an informed decision.
Mr L says that as his hypertension was being treated through regularly prescribed 
medication, it isn't a pre-existing medical condition. I disagreed. First, the condition existed 
and indicated that potentially Mr L was at risk for other conditions as a result. More 
importantly, the policy itself said a pre-existing medical condition included ones where 
prescribed medication was being received, which covers Mr L's position.
The policy went on to say that claims directly or indirectly relating to such conditions were 
excluded. It set out a clear definition and gave a relevant example for Mr L - those with high 
blood pressure who then suffer a stroke aren't covered. The point that the policy was making 
was that if the pre-existing medical condition made it more likely that another condition would 
arise, any consequences of this were excluded.
Mr L says that his hypertension had no connection to his stroke. His treating doctors have 
said that the stroke was caused by atrial fibrillation; AWP doesn't dispute this. But what 
caused the atrial fibrillation? There's no definitive answer but the views of the treating 
doctors were considered by AWP and it got further medical advice from qualified medical 
practitioners. The advice was that hypertension was a common risk factor for those to go on 
develop atrial fibrillation; in other words, patients who have hypertension are known to be at 
a much higher risk of developing atrial fibrillation. Given the definition of "indirectly related 
to", I think it was fair and reasonable for AWP to conclude that Mr L's hypertension indirectly related to his stroke as it was a risk factor for the atrial fibrillation that directly caused it, and 
to then decline the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 
27 July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman