DRN-3161774
The complaint
Mr A and Miss T complain about the service they have received from Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) following an enquiry about adding an e-scooter to their home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A and Miss T took out a home insurance policy with Admiral. Mr A telephoned Admiral to 
enquire about adding an e-scooter to their policy. Admiral declined saying that they 
considered e-scooters to be motorised vehicles and as such would not include them on a 
home insurance policy. Mr A expressed his dissatisfaction and was told during the call that if 
he wanted to cancel his policy, Admiral would waive all cancellation fees.
Mr A then emailed Admiral about their e-scooter decision and this was lodged as a 
complaint. Admiral responded to this complaint by confirming their underwriting decision to 
refuse cover. They also confirmed that they would waive their cancellation fee if Mr A wished 
to cancel the policy, but that cancellation should take place within two weeks. Mr A was not 
happy with this as he had originally been told the cancellation fee would be waived up until 
his renewal date.
Admiral apologised for their mistake in originally offering an open-ended cancellation and 
offered Mr A £20 compensation. Mr A did not think the change in the offer to him was fair 
and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said that Admiral accepted they had made 
an error and he thought that £20 compensation was fair as Mr A still had the opportunity to 
cancel his policy if he wished. Mr A didnt agree and asked for the matter to be considered 
by an ombudsman. He didnt think it fair that Admiral replaced an offer they made to him with 
a less favourable offer without any change of circumstances. He also thought that Admirals 
actions represented poor industry practice. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A is not complaining about Admirals decision in relation to his e-scooter so Im not 
considering that here. His complaint is about Admiral changing their offer to him without any 
justification. He suggests that allowing such behaviour sets a precedent in the industry and 
that this encourages poor practice. 
The role of this service isnt to punish a business for making a mistake  or to use them to 
set an example. Each case is looked at on its merits and our role is to attempt to put things 
right for the consumer where there has been a mistake. We will only require a business to 
put things right if were satisfied that its fair and reasonable, and that the consumer has lost 
out. We can also require a business to offer compensation if we think the consumer has 
been caused distress and inconvenience. 
Ive listened to the call Mr A had with Admiral on 18 June 2021. I dont think there is any 
dispute that Admiral gave Mr A the option of cancelling his policy up until renewal with no 
cancellation fees. Admiral made the offer as a gesture of goodwill as they were unable to 
add the e-scooter to the policy and Mr A had expressed his concern about being left without 
any cover.  
Ive also listened to another call Mr A had with Admiral on 8 July 2021. During this call 
Admiral admitted that they had made a mistake and that they should have put a time limit on 
the cancellation. They apologised and said that they would still waive the fee but that if Mr A 
wanted to cancel, he should do so within two weeks. 
Admiral clearly made an error in their initial offer to Mr A but once they realised their mistake, 
they took steps to put it right. I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to have the 
opportunity of correcting their mistake.
Admiral offered a two week cancellation period instead of the original open ended offer. The 
purpose of the original offer was to allow Mr A the opportunity to cancel his policy without 
cost so that he could find cover for his e-scooter elsewhere. I think two weeks still allowed 
Mr A sufficient time to do this, and so I dont think this was unreasonable.
In order to put right their mistake, Admiral apologised and offered Mr A £20 compensation. I 
need to consider whether this was fair. Compensation isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business but is a recognition of the emotional and practical impact that a mistake can have. I 
understand that Mr A had a shortened timescale to arrange cancellation, but he had already 
researched alternative insurance companies to insure his e-scooter so I dont think this 
would have had a significant practical impact. Mr A also made it clear that he was unlikely to 
cancel his policy early in any event, and that he would probably allow it to lapse at renewal. I 
appreciate that Mr A would have been frustrated by the change of offer, but I havent seen 
anything to suggest that this caused him distress or inconvenience. I therefore think that 
Admirals offer of £20 compensation was fair.
I also need to consider whether Mr A has lost out as a result of Admirals mistake, and I 
havent seen any evidence that he has. Mr A still had the opportunity of cancelling his policy 
early  although he ultimately chose not to do so.
In all the circumstances, I dont think that Admiral have acted unfairly. I know that this is not 
the outcome that Mr A was hoping for, but I hope that he understands my reasoning. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman