DRN-4207415
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) handled claims 
for damage to his property, one for water ingress and one for damage to a wall.
References to RSA include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
In 2021, a neighbour of Mr M removed a guttering down pipe from their property. Mr M was 
concerned this meant excess rainwater from both properties (and a property in between) 
was flowing through to his guttering and downpipe. Mr M subsequently (June 2022) lodged a 
claim for what he said was the damage to his property from water ingress caused by the 
additional flow of rainwater through his guttering and downpipe. In making the claim Mr M 
also said guttering at his property came away in a storm (July 2019), also damaging facias 
and leading to water coming through the roof and causing damage. 
At the same time, Mr M also made a claim for damage to a wall at the front of his property, 
which he thought had been caused either by a vehicle impact or from refuse collection (of 
bins next to the wall).
RSA appointed a surveyor (B) to assess the damage and validate the claims. With respect to 
the damage to his property from water ingress, B concluded the damage was caused by 
rainwater ingress over time and the damage to the guttering was due to a natural breakdown 
of materials. Based on Bs findings, RSA declined the claim as it was due to wear and tear, 
which wasnt covered under the policy.
On the damage to the wall, B concluded there was no sign of impact damage, no evidence 
and no witnesses. RSA also said images of the property from a publicly available source 
indicated the damage was visible in January 2022 (not a couple of months before Mr M 
lodged his claim, which is when he said he noticed it). 
After B visited the property, given their findings, RSA appointed an investigator (C) to further 
investigate and validate the claim. Mr M was concerned at the appointment, feeling it was 
uncalled for and inappropriate. He said he felt harassed by C when they tried to contact him 
to arrange a recorded interview, leading him to decline to attend.
Unhappy at RSA not accepting his claim and what he considered to be harassment from C, 
Mr M complained to RSA. He reiterated his view the water ingress was the result of his 
neighbour removing their downpipe (and a downpipe on his property having been knocked 
off). And the damage to the wall was from impact damage from a vehicle. While he said the 
initial call to RSA to lodge the claim (and Bs subsequent visit) were courteous and 
professional, he was concerned at Cs involvement (given their role as fraud investigators). 
He also set out his health conditions and vulnerabilities, which he said affected his ability to 
take part in a recorded interview. He didnt think RSA had acted fairly in accordance with 
FCA requirements about handling claims promptly and fairly and due regard for the interests 
of customers and treating them fairly (including where customers were vulnerable).
But RSA didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, they referred to Bs findings on 
the damage from water ingress and to the wall. RSA recognised Mr Ms reluctance to be 
interviewed by C, given his vulnerability, but said C were trained to accommodate this and 
make reasonable adjustments for his needs. RSA said it was necessary for C to investigate 
claims in depth in certain situations, which applied given the losses claimed for by Mr M and 
the circumstances. It was appropriate for C to request a recorded interview, necessary for 
RSA to progress their assessment of the claims.
Mr M then complained to this service. He didnt think RSA acted fairly in declining his claim. 
This impacted him through mould in his property triggering a medical condition and having a 
significant impact on his mental health and vulnerability. He wanted RSA to make an 
appropriate contribution to the costs of repairing the damage to his property.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding RSA didnt need to take any action. 
On the claim for damage from water ingress, he understood Mr Ms concern that his 
neighbour removing the down pipe was the cause of the damage, but the report from B 
concluded the damage was the result of natural breakdown of materials over time with the 
fascia board rotting. While the removal of the down pipe may have highlighted this existing 
condition, the proximate cause was wear and tear (an exclusion under the policy). On the 
damage to the wall, the cause wasnt certain, but Mr M thought it due to vehicle impact or 
refuse collection. The report from B didnt find any impact damage with only the top part of 
the wall collapsed. There was also evidence the same damage was present in January 
2022. Having instructed C to validate the cause, Mr M not responding to their enquiries (as 
the policy required a policyholder to assist RSA in validating a claim) meant RSA werent 
able to progress their assessment of the claim.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He said hed submitted detailed information supporting his position, which he 
didnt think had been considered by the investigator when reaching their conclusions. He 
reiterated his view it was inappropriate for C (as fraud investigators) to be appointed, 
particularly given his health issues and vulnerabilities. He also rejected the decline of his 
claim for damage from water ingress as being due to wear and tear (though acknowledged 
the damage had occurred over a long time). He also restated his view the damage to the 
wall was probably due to refuse collection (of bins next to the wall). He also set out his 
health issues and vulnerability. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say to Mr M that Ive considered very carefully what hes told us about his 
circumstances, including his health and vulnerability, and the impact on him. Ive read all the 
information and evidence provided by Mr M to support his complaint, including detailed 
information on his health and vulnerabilities. I appreciate that making claims and having 
them assessed can also inherently be a challenging process, which will have added to the 
pressures on Mr M. Ive borne this in mind when considering, as is my role here, deciding 
whether RSA have acted fairly towards Mr M.
The two key issues in Mr Ms complaint are, firstly, their decline of his claim for damage to 
his property from water ingress, which Mr M says was caused by issues with the guttering at 
his property (and removal of a down pipe by his neighbour). And, secondly, how RSA have dealt with his claim for damage to a wall, including their 
appointing C to investigate the claim and their wanting to arrange a recorded interview with 
Mr C. Mr M is concerned about RSA appointing C to investigate his claim, which he feels 
uncalled for and inappropriate. He says he feels harassed by C contacting him to request an 
interview. RSA say it was necessary to appoint C to investigate, given the circumstances of 
the claim and the losses claimed for, and C are trained to take account of Mr Ms 
circumstances and vulnerability.
Ive considered both views carefully on the two issues, including the points made by Mr M 
and RSA (and C) as well as the information and evidence available. Having done so, Ive 
concluded RSA have acted fairly. I know this will disappoint Mr M, so Ill set out why Ive 
come to this conclusion.
Ive seen email exchanges between Mr M and C, where C requests an interview and 
reminds Mr M its a condition of the policy that he provides RSA with assistance they deem 
necessary to deal with his claim (including attending an interview with C). And that failure to 
do so could lead to the claim not being accepted. Looking at the exchanges, I dont think C 
have been unreasonable and the tone is courteous and professional. While I appreciate Mr 
M sees it differently, given the nature of his health and vulnerability, I dont think theres 
anything in what C have said thats intimidating or could be construed to be harassment.
Ive also considered Bs report on the claim for damage to the wall. B visited the property at 
the end of June 2022 (two days after Mr M first notified RSA of the damage). The report 
notes Mr M first noticed the damage at the end of April 2022 thinking it was due to impact 
damage (but the report also says images from a publicly available source shows the same 
damage visible in January 2022). The report comments that part of the top of the wall has 
come off (the photographs show this) but states:
There is no sign of impact damage, no evidence and no witnesses.
The report notes B have been removed from delegated authority due to the concerns raised 
in the report. C were appointed shortly after Bs report.
On Cs appointment, RSA say the points in Bs report gave rise to concerns about the claims 
and circumstances. Given the difference in timing between Mr M noticing the damage (which 
he says was April 2022), reporting the damage to RSA (June 2022) and Bs comment about 
publicly available images showing the damage in January 2022 (as well as the comments 
about lack of evidence of impact damage) then I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to 
appoint C to further investigate the claims. 
The policy also provides for this. Under the section Guidance when making a claim and sub 
heading Claim notification there are the following statements:
please be aware that events that may give rise to a claim under the insurance must 
be notified as soon as possible although there are some situations where immediate 
notice is required
Claims conditions require you to provide us with any assistance and evidence that 
we require concerning the cause and value of any claim
And the following statement in the same section provides for RSA to appoint C (or other 
agents) as part of their assessment of a claim:Sometimes we, or someone acting on our behalf, may wish to meet with you to 
discuss the circumstances of the claim, to inspect the damage, or to undertake 
further investigations.
These terms and conditions would cover the appointment of C (and of B) and (as Ive said 
above) considering the circumstances Ive concluded it was reasonable for RSA to do so.
But Ive also considered Mr Ms concerns about the impact of appointing C, including their 
request he attend a recorded interview, given the health issues and vulnerabilities hes 
described. While I accept he may be concerned, I dont think this of itself means Cs request 
is unreasonable, and as Ive said above, I havent seen anything in their communications 
which is not courteous or professional. 
And I would expect C to conduct any interview with appropriate consideration for Mr Ms 
circumstances. Cs report following their contact with Mr M recognises the concerns he 
raised about an interview given his health issues and vulnerabilities and says alternative 
allowances would have been made for Mr M. I think this reasonable and while it wouldnt be 
for me to set out what these may be (that would be for C to consider in discussion with Mr M) 
they could include whether Mr M could be accompanied by an appropriate representative, 
and/or an indication in advance of the subjects to be discussed.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded RSA havent acted unreasonably in their 
dealing with Mr Ms claim for damage to his wall.
On the claim for damage due to water ingress, Ive also looked at Bs report, produced after 
the same inspection visit at the end of June 2022. It notes what Mr M has said about the 
removal of a down pipe by the neighbour, leading to all rainwater flowing through one 
[remaining] down pipe. This has impacted the guttering on a flat roof at Mr Ms property, 
causing water ingress and damage to the sill and fascia boards (this has happened for a 
while, noting Mr Ms health issues). concludes the cause of damage as natural breakdown 
of materials and states:
The flat roof is old, all the drips have perished over time that in turn has caused the 
facia to rot and the fascia board to come off. As you can see there is now only one 
down pipe which means all the water comes down the propertys pipe.
The issue here is a natural breakdown of materials.
Looking at the photographs in Bs report, they confirm significant damage and deterioration 
to the flat roof and fascia board. The report also notes internal damage to the property 
caused  by rainwater ingress over a period of time 
The report states the claim has been declined in full, based on the findings about the causes 
of the internal and external damage.
Ive thought about these points in the context of the timeline of events set out above and by 
Mr M. He mentions damage from bad weather (a storm at the end of July 2019) as well as 
the removal of the down pipe by his neighbour in 2021. Ive seen correspondence supporting 
the latter and with his local council. However, while acknowledging his health issues and 
vulnerabilities, its clear the damage from water ingress has occurred over a period, at least 
going back to 2021. And this is consistent with the observed damage in the photographs in 
Bs report, both to the exterior and interior of the property.The policy terms and conditions include a requirement to prevent loss or damage. Under the 
section Conditions & Exclusions theres a sub heading Conditions which apply to the whole 
policy which includes the following:
1. Your duty to prevent loss or damage
The insured must take steps to prevent loss of or damage to property which is 
insured under this contract and to maintain such property in a sound condition.
Under the same section Conditions & Exclusions theres a sub-heading Exclusions which 
apply to the whole policy which includes the following:
9. Wear and tear
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused 
by, or resulting from wear and tearor anything that happens gradually
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded the damage from the water ingress 
happened gradually over time. So, Ive concluded RSA acted fairly and reasonably to decline 
Mr Ms claim for the damage from water ingress.
While Ive reached these conclusions, Ive also considered what Mr M has told us about his 
health issues and vulnerabilities and the impact on him and RSAs handling of his claims. 
Ive noted what Mr M has told us about his initial contacts with RSA and B and Ive seen 
nothing in the information and evidence presented that differs from this. On the appointment 
of C and their subsequent contact with Mr M, as Ive said above, the indications are they 
acted appropriately in the light of what he told them about his health issues and 
vulnerabilities and would have made alternative allowances for Mr Ms circumstances.
Not do I think RSA acted unfairly in their handling of the claims. They appointed B to visit the 
property to inspect the damage, which they did two days after Mr M notified RSA of the 
damage. And C was appointed shortly thereafter, initially looking to interview Mr M towards 
the end of July 2022. 
These points taken together lead me to conclude RSA have dealt fairly with Mr Ms claims; 
they have done so promptly, and theyve taken account of his health issues and 
vulnerabilities.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman