DRN-1509299
The complaint
Mrs Ks unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited turned down her claim under her furniture 
insurance policy.
Other companies have been involved in this claim, but for simplicity as Ageas are 
responsible for the claim, Ill just refer to them.
What happened
In June 2016 Mrs K purchased furniture insurance, and then in October 2019 she made a 
claim. She told Ageas the seats were sinking when she sat in them, and the arm rests 
werent as plump as they should be.
Ageas turned down the claim, explaining the issues Mrs K had described related to the 
interior of the sofas so it wasnt covered under the terms of the policy shed bought. She 
wasnt happy with that, and after speaking to Ageas they agreed to send out a technician to 
inspect her sofas. 
The technician found  for the seat issues  springs had fallen over and determined this was 
due to wear and tear. And for the arm rests they said the reason for the fault is because 
theyd not been maintained properly.
Because of this, Ageas maintained their decision to turn down Mrs Ks claim. But she wasnt 
happy the reason it was being turned down was due to wear and tear, as she says shed 
been told by the technician it was a manufacturing fault which would be covered, so she 
complained.
Ageas replied to the complaint, said they were relying on the report thatd been provided by 
the technician, and there was no mention of there being a manufacturing fault. The report 
said it was wear and tear  and as interiors arent covered then the claim wouldnt be met.
Because of this Mrs K asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so but found 
Ageas had fairly turned down the claim.
Mrs K didnt agree, explaining she felt she was covered, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mrs K feels very strongly her claim should be covered. Itll help to explain I need to 
carefully consider the policy terms  and if I find they dont cover for the damage shes 
claimed for, then I cant fairly order Ageas to meet her claim.
The relevant policy terms for the seats say, under what wont be covered Breaking or 
bending of metal mechanisms or other metal components except springs within seat 
interiors, and any damage resulting from wear and tear.
So, I think the policy is sufficiently clear if the issue being claimed for relates to damage to 
springs within seat interiors then it wont be covered.
And this is exactly what the technicians have recorded in their claim notes. Theyve said the 
problem is the seat springs as a result of wear and tear. I can see Mrs K strongly disagrees 
with that  and that they told her it was a manufacturing fault. But while I dont doubt what 
Mrs K has said, I can only decide her case based on the evidence provided to me, and the 
technicians report is clear in the cause of the damage.
For the arm rests theyve recorded the reason for this issue is due to them not being 
maintained by Mrs K  which I dont think I can reasonably say is something Ageas should 
be required to cover.
So, taking everything into account Im satisfied Ageas have acted fairly in turning down 
Mrs Ks claim.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman