DRN-4000734
The complaint
Miss G complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (who Ill call MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss G, but I dont think I have sufficient information to suggest there 
is a fault with this car. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss G acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MBFS, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss G. The car here was 
brand-new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
Miss G says there were several issues with the car. Shes concerned that the recovery 
service identified a fault code on the car. She also says the heater didnt work and that the 
car wouldnt go into reverse.
The dealership have been unable to reproduce those faults. Theyve explained they have 
been in regular contact with the manufacturer and have updated the high voltage battery 
software.
I asked our internal motor experts for advice on why a fault code was present in the cars 
system when it was recovered, if, as the dealership suggests, there wasnt a fault with the 
car.
Our expert explained:
All electrical motors work on positive/negative charges and ground - The ground is used to 
safely discharge any excess electricity. As vehicles use rubber tyres, this discharge cannot 
be fed through the wheels, so Electric Vehicles ground to their chassis. The P0AA7 fault 
code displays when the battery management system detects a higher or lower than 
expected discharge coming from High Voltage (HV) system components. This typically 
happens if there's a fault with the battery junction block, smart unit, HV battery or 
invertor/convertor. In short, a bad connection or a faulty smart unit, battery or invertor. As a 
software update cleared this code, no parts were faulty - I imagine the manufacturer set a 
very low discharge threshold previously, for safety concerns, but once they started to see a 
number of vehicles being returned to them for the same fault, they've increased the 
threshold. But this should still be perfectly safe. An Internal Combustion Engine (ICE) needs 
to be cooled when in operation as they will overheat. This is done by pumping coolant 
around the engine, this is then sent to a radiator to cool the fluid as air passes through it and 
then back to the engine again. Some of the hot coolant leaving the engine is sent to a heater 
matrix in the cabin, just behind the dash. If the driver wants to warm the cabin, a fan behind 
the heater matrix blows air through it to generate warm air. As EV's don't have an ICE, they 
use an electric heater - IE a heater booster. This works by creating an electrical resistance to 
generate heat with a fan behind it. When there's any issue with HV system/battery, the 
vehicle will power down non-essential systems - IE the heater booster, in a hope to conserve 
energy and get the driver home, or simply not leave them stranded. It's also possible there 
wasn't enough current being generated due to the P0AA7 code for the required resistance to 
be met.
So, I think that explains why the car needed to be recovered and why a fault code may have 
been registered. As the dealership havent been able to identify a fault with the car since 
they updated the high voltage battery software, it seems likely that software has reset the 
discharge threshold. But it doesnt, as our expert has explained, mean that there was a fault 
with the car  merely that the discharge threshold had been set lower than was necessary. 
And as its not been possible to reproduce the issue with the heater or the reverse selection 
it seems likely they were connected problems.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded there is sufficient evidence this car was of unsatisfactory 
quality. I understand Miss Gs testimony that there were customer service issues and that 
shes had, for instance, to spend a lot of time on the phone with the business. But as I 
havent found there is evidence this car was of unsatisfactory quality I dont think it would be 
fair to suggest MBFSs handling of the complaint was inadequate. Their position has always 
been as Ive found - that there is insufficient evidence the car had, or has, a fault. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman