DRN-3413838
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) 
wont waive the early repayment charge applied when they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
Ive summarised what I consider to be the material facts in this case.
In 2005 Mr and Mrs P purchased a property from elderly family to help facilitate their move to 
a more suitable property. They utilised the services of a broker to source a mortgage with 
Birmingham Midshires (BM). Advice and information about the mortgage were given by the 
broker. Mr and Mrs P were advised to apply for a buy-to-let mortgage on interest only terms. 
Their rate was fixed for five years until 31 December 2020. Mr and Mrs Ps intention was to 
rent the property to tenants for this period and sell it soon after. 
In mid-2020 Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances were impacted as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. They decided to sell the property and discussed their options with BM. This 
included offering to pay the interest due for the remainder or the term, in return for the early 
repayment charge (ERC) being waived. BM didnt agree to this and issued its final response 
on the matter on 16 October 2020. Mr and Mrs P redeemed the mortgage later that month. 
An ERC just shy of £4,000 was applied. 
Unhappy with BMs response, Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that BM had 
charged the ERC in line with the terms of the mortgage which were clearly set out to Mr and 
Mrs P. She also explained why BMs actions werent contrary to the guidance set by the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) to address the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic on customers. 
Mr and Mrs P provided several reasons why they disagreed with the investigators opinion. 
Including raising further concerns about the ERC not being a reasonable pre-estimate of 
BMs loss and being unfairly high. Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ps responses in 
detail but explained she could at this stage only consider the initial complaint brought to our 
service. That being how the ERC was charged. Any new issues concerning the pricing of the 
ERC would need be put to BM first to answer, as it has not yet had the chance to do so.
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy. As an agreement hasnt been reached the case has been 
passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P feel very strongly about their case and have provided a 
substantial amount of information to support their position. I can assure them that whilst I 
have carefully considered all the submissions made, I wont be commenting on all the points 
raised. My decision will focus on the facts and issues that I think are fundamental to the 
outcome of this case. Unlike a court, we dont rely on the parties involved to prove their 
case. We have the power to carry out our own investigation, focusing on what we think is 
relevant in reaching a decision that is impartial and considers whats fair and reasonable for 
both parties concerned.  
Mr and Mrs P dont dispute that an ERC is chargeable in line with their mortgage terms. 
They say their circumstances changed due to the impact of the pandemic and they think its 
morally wrong for BM to apply an ERC in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs P had a BTL mortgage. Whist BTL mortgages arent regulated in the same way 
as residential mortgages, the FCA released guidance for lenders to support both residential 
homeowners and landlords alike, if experiencing financial difficulty during the pandemic. This 
included allowing customers to defer up to a maximum of six-monthly mortgage payments 
without impacting their credit files. No guidance was released that expected lenders to waive 
ERCs. But lenders did have to treat customers in financial difficulty fairly taking into account 
individual circumstances to provide reasonable support.
Mr and Mrs P say their tenants decided to move out around two months prior to the end of 
their fixed rate period. It appears they told BM they could manage the contractual monthly 
payments and they offered to pay the interest due for the remainder of the term, in return for 
the ERC being waived. So, it appears they could financially afford to keep the property until 
the fixed term ended and if they needed help, BM could agree payment deferrals in line with 
the FCAs guidance. 
But Mr and Mrs P chose to sell the property earlier. They say a few factors impacted their 
decision. This included the difficulty and risk involved in managing the property and a new 
tenancy during the pandemic  due to their health and vulnerabilities. They didnt want to 
lose the current offer on their property and leave it empty over the winter. They wanted 
available funds to support their son who was facing potential redundancy soon after having a 
baby. They also sadly faced a bereavement in the family. 
Ive carefully considered everything I know about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances. I appreciate 
this mustve been a difficult time for them and I empathise with the position they found 
themselves in. But what I must consider is whether BM has done anything wrong in the 
circumstances.
In situations where a business has made a mistake or treated its customer unfairly and 
theyve lost out as a result, our service has the power to put things right. Usually, well tell 
the business to put the customer back in the position theyd be in if it hadnt got things 
wrong.
Under the relevant rules, lenders are entitled to apply an ERC. And Im satisfied that the 
ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer, which Mr and Mrs P 
accepted when they took out the current mortgage deal. So, it is difficult for me to say that 
BM cant apply the ERC that Mr and Mrs P agreed to when they took out the mortgage.
When a lender offers a fixed rate mortgage product, both the lender and borrower are tied 
into the fixed rate for the duration of the term. The ERC reflects the pre-estimated costs a 
lender incurs across a range of mortgages where the borrower redeems the mortgage within 
the benefit period. Our investigator explained in detail why the ERC isnt (and isnt intended 
or expected by the regulator to be) reflective of the loss on redemption of the individual mortgage. As such, lenders arent expected to accept customers proposals to alter the 
mortgage contract terms due to change in circumstances.
When thinking about what's fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case, I cant say 
Ive seen enough to say that BM needed to do anything differently in the circumstances. Ill 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ps tenancy arrangement was impacted by circumstances outside of their 
control. And I appreciate the challenges they faced with arranging a new tenancy. But they 
knew an ERC was applicable and Im not persuaded other options werent available to them 
to help mitigate their loss.
Mr and Mrs P said they could afford the mortgage, so BM would not consider them to be in 
any financial difficulty that required further support. And if for any reason the mortgage did 
become unaffordable, they could have asked for a payment deferral for up to six months  
which would have seen them through to December 2020.
But Mr and Mrs P made the decision to sell the property. Whilst they have presented 
personal reasons for making that decision, I cant hold BM responsible for the choice they 
made, and I cant say that any loss suffered by Mr and Mrs P was as a result of BMs 
actions. Based on what BM knew about their circumstances, Im not persuaded it needed to 
do any anything more. 
 
I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr and Mrs P, but I will not be asking
BM to refund the ERC paid on early redemption of their mortgage.
My final decision
My final decision is that do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman