DRN-3155620
The complaint
Miss G and Mr M complain that Santander UK Plc gave them incorrect information about 
what changes they could apply for under their mortgage.
What happened
Miss G and Mr M have a flexible mortgage with Santander that was taken out in November 
2005. Under that mortgage they borrowed approximately £95,500 on a capital and 
repayment basis, repayable over 23 years. And they also borrowed roughly £40,300 on an 
interest only basis, repayable over 14 years. 
The interest only portion of the mortgage needed to be repaid in October 2019. As a result, 
Miss G and Mr M contacted Santander to discuss their options. Their preference was to 
move the interest only borrowing onto a capital repayment basis, borrow additional funds 
and extend the mortgage term, while keeping their flexible mortgage product.
Santander has acknowledged that it incorrectly told Miss G and Mr M that this would be 
possible. However, it then confirmed that these changes were outside of its lending criteria. 
It has explained that it is unable to extend flexible mortgages as this is not a product it offers 
any more. It said Miss G and Mr M would need to apply for a new mortgage to consolidate 
the outstanding balance onto a repayment basis and borrow more money. It offered Miss G 
and Mr M £50 for the upset caused by it providing incorrect information.
Miss G and Mr M said they didnt think this was fair and had made plans based on the 
incorrect information provided to them, so they felt Santander should honour what it had said 
it could do. So, they asked our service to consider the complaint. Theyve added that they 
are also unhappy Santander has continued to apply interest to their outstanding interest only 
balance while their complaint was ongoing.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. She didnt think Santander was wrong to 
continue to charge interest on the mortgage.  She agreed Santander had provided 
misleading information. But she felt this had been quickly rectified. So, she felt the offer of 
£50 made by Santander was fair.
Miss G and Mr M did not agree. They said theyd been provided incorrect information several 
times, significantly earlier than our Investigator had said. And they felt Santander was 
withholding evidence of this.
As Miss G and Mr M did not agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id start by saying that Santander is entitled to set its own lending criteria. And this isnt 
something I can interfere with. Santander has provided evidence that its criteria is not to 
agree extensions to flexible mortgages, as this is no longer a product it offers to customers. 
And instead it would require an application for a new mortgage here. Im satisfied that it 
hasnt done anything wrong by explaining this to Miss G and Mr M or by declining to do what 
theyve asked  as this is outside of its lending criteria, which it appears to have applied 
fairly.
Miss G and Mr M have said they think Santander should make the changes that theyve 
asked for, because it incorrectly told them it potentially could. But where a business provides 
incorrect information, I wouldnt expect it to honour something said in error or to make that 
incorrect information true. So, in any event, Im not going to require Santander to make the 
changes Miss G and Mr M have requested outside of its usual lending policy.
There is no dispute that Santander provided incorrect information to Miss G and Mr M in late 
September 2019 by suggesting what they wanted  to make the changes to their borrowing 
and keep their flexible mortgage  could be acceptable to it. But it is also clear that it was 
clarified the next day that this was not possible.
Miss G and Mr M have said that they were given this incorrect information several times 
before this date as well. So, they dont agree that this error was corrected promptly and have 
said that this led them to make plans which they otherwise wouldnt have.
I think it is important to note though that Santander has not said it is unwilling to consider the 
level of borrowing Miss G and Mr M are requesting. The issue is that it isnt willing to agree 
to the lending under the existing flexible mortgage because it wont extend the term of that 
mortgage and instead requires a new mortgage application. 
Santander has provided recordings of all available calls and contact notes where calls are 
not available. Miss G and Mr M have indicated they are unhappy Santander has not 
provided recordings of all calls. But businesses are not expected to retain call recordings 
indefinitely. Where information is unavailable, I have to make my decision on balance, based 
on the evidence that is available.
Its clear that there was contact prior to September 2019. And that Miss G and Mr M 
indicated previously they were looking to move the interest only borrowing onto a repayment 
basis and borrow more money. It appears Santander discussed what the monthly 
repayments would likely be in the region of, if Miss G and Mr M borrowed that amount. But I 
havent seen anything that leads me to say Santander incorrectly said, prior to September 
2019, that this could be done under the existing flexible mortgage. Indeed, in the first call 
Miss G and Mr M had with Santander in September 2019 they indicated they were aware 
that they couldnt keep their flexible mortgage and achieve this.
Id also add that, it doesnt appear that any application was actually made at any stage prior 
to September 2019. So, while Miss G and Mr M have said they made plans based on being 
able to borrow funds, in the way that they hoped to, I cant see that Santander had ever 
made a formal offer to lend on that basis. So, there was always a risk, even if they made 
plans, that their request for borrowing would be declined.
Taking all of that into account, Im satisfied that the £50 Santander offered, which I 
understand has been paid to Miss G and Mr M, is fair and reasonable to address the upset 
caused by the incorrect information it provided during telephone calls in late September 
2019. And I dont intend to require Santander to do more here.Miss G and Mr M have said they are unhappy that interest has continued to be applied to the 
interest only part of the mortgage while their complaint has been ongoing. The agreement 
made with Santander under the original mortgage was that the amount they borrowed on an 
interest only basis would be repaid. And until that happened, interest would be payable. 
Santander can take the decision not to apply interest in certain circumstances, if it deems it 
appropriate to do so. But I cant fairly say that Santander is not entitled to charge interest, in 
line with the original mortgage contract, just because of a complaint having been made. So, I 
dont think Santander has made an error by continuing to charge interest on the full 
outstanding mortgage balance.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman