DRN-3789601
Complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) recorded a fraud prevention marker 
against him. 
Background
In May 2019, there was an attempt to deposit a cheque for £6,500.00 into Mr Cs account. 
Shortly afterwards, Santander received a notification from a third-party bank stating that the 
cheque deposited was counterfeit. As a result of this, Santander reviewed Mr Cs account, 
decided to close it and also record a fraud prevention marker against Mr C.
Upon learning about the fraud marker having been recorded, Mr C complained about 
Santanders actions. Santander looked at Mr Cs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr C 
remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Cs concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr C unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr C disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using, or attempting to use, the account to receive fraudulent funds. In 
order to file such a marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr C is 
guilty of fraud or a financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than 
mere suspicion or concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Mr Cs account, or that there was an attempt at doing this, whether they were 
retained or merely passed through. Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong 
evidence to show that Mr C was deliberately dishonest in relation to the fraudulent payment 
and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This can include Mr C allowing 
someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker 
shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be enough 
evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Cs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show that Mr Cs was complicit in the attempt to credit his account with 
fraudulent funds. And having considered everything, I find that Santander has done this 
here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr Cs account was involved in attempted 
fraudulent activity in May 2019. So the only matter which remains in dispute here is whether 
Mr C was complicit in allowing his account to be used in this way. 
When he initially discussed the matter with Santander in May 2019, Mr C said that he didnt 
know anything about the cheque that was deposited. He told Santander that he noticed the 
credit on the day but as the funds disappeared from his account the next day he assumed 
that this was a bank error. 
Mr C also confirmed that no one had had access to his account and confirmed that hed had 
no issues with the new card and personal identification number (PIN) he was issued with 
the month before. However, he went on to say that someone could have used the 
information from the lost card to try and deposit the cheque. When the complaint was 
referred to our service, Mr C told our adjudicator that as he played football everyday anyone 
could have gone through his bag and obtained his details.
Ive thought about what Mr C has said. But even though Ive tried to give him the benefit of 
the doubt, Im afraid that there are a number of things which simply dont add up and which 
mean I cant reasonably conclude that he was an unwitting participant here. I firstly say this 
because Mr Cs version of events simply doesnt appear plausible. Mr C says that someone 
who found his card might have attempted to credit the fraudulent cheque into his account. 
But the cheque had his full name on it and this wasnt present on Mr Cs debt card.
Furthermore, it would be somewhat odd for an opportunistic fraudster to attempt to credit      
Mr Cs account with these funds, when they would have no way of withdrawing the funds 
once the cheque had cleared. Mr Cs lost card had already been stopped and he confirms 
having received a new card and PIN around this time. So there was no obvious way that 
someone who came across Mr Cs lost card would have been able to withdraw the 
fraudulent funds a month later.
Finally, I also find it rather strange that Mr C didnt contact Santander immediately when he 
saw the credit of £6,500.00 in his account. At that point, he wouldnt have known that the 
funds would no longer show the following day and he would also have been aware his card 
had been lost the previous month and that as he says now, many others would have been 
able to access his bag and obtain his details. The number of online logins that day together 
with Mr Cs failure to report what was clearly unusual activity suggests to me that its more 
likely than not he was expecting his account to receive such a credit at that time.  
Im afraid that the available evidence and Mr C being unable to provide anything at all to 
corroborate what, on the face of things, appears to be an implausible version of events 
means that I cant reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think 
its more likely than not he was complicit in the attempt to credit his account with fraudulent 
funds. So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that there was an attempt to credit Mr Cs account with fraudulent funds. 
And bearing in mind what Ive said above, Im also satisfied that Santander was also 
reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr C was complicit in this. As 
this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention 
marker in the circumstances that it did. So Im not upholding this complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr C  especially given what hes said about 
the impact the marker is having on him. But I cant ignore the fact that he appears to have 
been complicit in attempted fraudulent activity. So I hope Mr C will understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Furthermore, Mr C might find that hes able to open an account with another institution as 
long as he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman