DRN-3326004
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Halifax overvalued their property 
when they bought it in 2005. They now, many years later, find themselves in negative equity.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were first-time buyers when they bought a new build flat in 2005 for £121,950. 
They applied for a mortgage with Halifax through a broker and got a valuation which 
confirmed the value of the property at that time as £121,950. The flat is now valued at 
£81,500. Mr and Mrs H say that the flats in the complex have been devalued despite a local 
and national increase in house prices generally.
Halifax said that the valuation in 2005 was carried out by a qualified surveyor and notes that 
the flats in the complex were sold for similar prices so doesnt accept that there was anything 
wrong with the valuation. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld as he didnt accept that Halifax had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs H disagreed 
saying in summary that the valuer had made a major error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H are in negative equity with their flat and let me firstly say that they have my 
sympathies with the unfortunate position they find themselves in. I can see the stress they 
are under. But in this complaint, Im only dealing with the valuation of the property in 2005 
and not with any wider issues that Mr and Mrs H may have with Halifax. I note that they 
appear to be having financial difficulties but as indicated by our investigator, Im not looking 
in this complaint at how Halifaxs has responded to those difficulties. If Mr and Mrs H have 
cause to complain about that, that is a separate matter.
My role in this complaint is to decide whether Halifax did anything wrong and if so, what 
compensation is due to Mr and Mrs H. Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is that the valuation in 2005 
of this flat was wrong by overstating the value of the property. Halifax says that it instructed a 
professionally qualified valuer and that it was reasonable to accept that valuation. Mr and 
Mrs H point out that the valuer was from an associated company to Halifax and that casts 
doubt on the independence of the valuation.
In order for me to find for Mr and Mrs H, I would have to find that the valuation of the 
property at that time was wrong and that this property wasnt worth what Mr and Mrs H paid 
for it in 2005. The problem is that all the evidence is that this property along with others in 
the complex were sold under construction in 2005 and that Mr and Mrs Hs property sold at a 
similar price to the others depending on the size of the flat. There seem to have been 20 
flats sold in the complex and Mr and Mrs Hs flat is not overvalued in comparison to the 
others. That many others were prepared to pay a similar price to Mr and Mrs H for similar 
flats in the same complex in 2005 would seem to confirm that the valuation Halifax obtained 
fairly reflected what people were willing to pay for those flats. That after all is what a 
valuation is  to determine the price that a willing purchaser would pay a willing seller.
Clearly despite a nationwide and local increase in house prices since that time, the prices of 
these flats have decreased substantially. But that happens for various reasons. Some 
properties have increased in value and clearly theres been a trend upwards in house prices 
generally but some have unfortunately decreased in value. But that doesnt mean that the 
price Mr and Mrs H paid for their flat in 2005 was overvalued at the time. It may have been 
too high in hindsight but thats another matter and not a reason for me to say that Halifaxs 
valuation at the time was wrong. Ive no evidence that Halifaxs valuation then was incorrect, 
but the supporting evidence is that it was likely to be reasonably accurate. So, I cant say 
that the valuation in 2005 overvalued Mr and Mrs Hs property at that time and I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman