DRN-2653940
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Yorkshire Bank, did not report 
their joint current account to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have held a joint current account with Yorkshire Bank for around 30 to 40 
years. In 2020, when they were required by a solicitor to complete an identity check, an 
electronic check failed, and they had to provide certified paperwork. They discovered the 
electronic check had failed because their joint current account didnt appear on their credit 
file.
They complained to Yorkshire Bank in May 2020, but the bank failed to log their complaint. 
So it didnt reply until around four months later. It said it had failed to report Mr and Mrs Ws 
account to the credit reference agencies due to a system issue. It apologised for the trouble 
Mr and Mrs W had had to go to during an identity check and for delay in responding to their 
complaint. It arranged to report the account and it paid them £100 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr and Mrs W say their credit files now show the account but only with information from 
September 2020, so it doesnt reflect the last six years of account activity.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded 
Yorkshire Bank acted reasonably when it was made aware of the error and that the reporting 
is now correct.
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They said, in summary, that the data about the account for the 
last six years should be reported  because, as it is currently recorded, it shows an account 
that has been open but inactive, which isnt the case. The record should reflect that the 
account has been well managed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The joint account was opened many years ago and before credit reference agencies existed. 
So the terms when the account was opened wouldnt have allowed for reporting. At some 
point, Yorkshire Bank should have sought Mr and Mrs Ws consent to report the account to 
the credit reference agencies. It explained that it failed to do this due to a system issue. 
Following their complaint, Yorkshire Bank is now reporting the account. But Mr and Mrs W 
want it to reflect the last six years conduct.
Yorkshire Bank says, as it only holds Mr and Mrs Ws consent from 2020, it can only start 
reporting from that date. Even though Mr and Mrs W are happy for it to do so, 
Yorkshire Bank cant accept Mr and Mrs Ws retrospective consent. Whilst I accept this is 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs W, I dont find Yorkshire Bank has acted unreasonably here. I also 
find it is unlikely that the failure to reflect the accounts history will adversely impact Mr and 
Mrs W  as our investigator explained in some detail, normal transactions on a current 
account will not impact the credit rating.
Yorkshire Bank recognised that, if the account had been reported, its likely Mr and Mrs W 
would not have had to go to the trouble of providing certified copies of their documents for an 
identity check. It paid them £100 to reflect this inconvenience, and to compensate them for 
the time taken to respond to their complaint. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman