DRN-2158808
The complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined to cover some of the 
alternative accommodation costs he incurred as part of a claim made on his home insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. In short, Mr S claims that UKI ought to have covered the costs of a further six weeks 
alternative accommodation  when the insurer says disturbance allowance for this span of 
time was appropriate instead (which is calculated at a cheaper rate). So, Mr S incurred costs 
of £4,800 and UKI has put forward a settlement in the region of £1,680. 
Where these material facts are not in dispute, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
  Although Mr S initially chose to stay in his home while work was completed, Im 
satisfied the circumstances of this claim led to him requiring alternative 
accommodation. And its common ground that he was entitled to this policy benefit. 
  Its evident that it was the avoidable delays and a lack of communication on UKIs 
part that caused repair costs to exceed what the insurer offered in cash settlement to 
the claim in July 2019. Indeed, UKI later conceded that what it initially put forward 
was insufficient and it offered an increased settlement in December 2019.  
  Ultimately, the inadequacy of this settlement offered by UKI in mid-2019 was the 
operative cause of Mr S requiring a further stay in alternative accommodation.  
  On the evidence, Im not persuaded that UKI handled the claim fairly. It told Mr S 
that the July 2019 settlement took it to the limit of its liability  so, it would not 
increase the amount it was prepared to pay. Yet, UKI has since accepted that its 
failings meant it was only fair for it to pay the difference between what it initially 
offered and the true cost of repairs to Mr Ss home. 
  I think that UKI ought to have been more open to revising the settlement it put 
forward when Mr S first questioned it in mid-2019. Essentially, he was told that it 
would not be increased or discussed further unless our service determined 
otherwise. Consequently, in order to commence works, Mr S faced arranging repairs 
that he knew were more expensive than his claims pay-out  which I find unfair. 
  Overall, Im satisfied that Mr S was without the proper use of his kitchen for the six 
weeks in question (taking into account the alternative accommodation payment(s) 
UKI has already covered). His home remained in the same unfit condition that UKI 
had previously agreed to pay alternative accommodation for, in line with the policy 
terms. I therefore do not find the offer of disturbance allowance suitable. 
  So, in conclusion, Mr S was entitled to the alternative accommodation policy benefit 
and hes submitted evidence of the costs he incurred; equating to £4,800. On that 
basis, its my judgment that he be reimbursed this amount. 
  Finally, I can see that Mr S has put considerable time and effort into getting the 
matter resolved  and Im satisfied that repairs wouldve been completed sooner, but 
for UKIs failings. Its clear to me that Mr S has suffered considerable distress and 
inconvenience as a result. Taking everything into consideration, I find compensation 
of £750 proportionate to reflect the impact caused to him. When reaching this, Im 
mindful that UKI has previously offered compensation that totals a similar amount. 
Putting things right  
In the circumstances, I find it fair and reasonable to require U K Insurance Limited to:
1. Pay Mr S the remaining £4,800 hes incurred for alternative accommodation.
2. Pay Mr S a total of £750 compensation. 
So, U K Insurance Limited should pay this sum within 28 days of receiving notification of     
Mr Ss acceptance which he can notify by accepting my decision failing which interest will 
accrue thereafter at the simple rate of 8% per year until payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. 
For completeness, Mr S should note that accepting my decision will make it legally binding
on both parties, so he wouldnt then be able to take legal action over these matters. But if he
rejects, or doesnt respond on time, the decision wont be binding.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman