DRN-2745437
The complaint
Miss B complains about the quality of a car she financed through an agreement with 
Advantage Finance Ltd.
What happened
Miss B entered a Hire Purchase Agreement (HPA) with Advantage in July 2020 to acquire a 
used vehicle. She says shed used the services of another company (O) to help her select 
the car and arrange the finance. She says O added £1000 to the finance agreement to cover 
mechanical and cosmetic repair.
Miss B says that O delivered the car to her on 13 July 2020. After taking delivery she carried 
out her own checks. She says she was very familiar with the type of car shed acquired. She 
noticed some issues:
the car shook when she sparked it;
there was a broken CD in the CD player;
the AUX port had a broken piece stuck in it;
one of the tyres needed to be changed; and 
one reverse light was not working.
She says she reported these issues to O. It eventually said it would look into the matter for 
her. It came to collect the car in August. But, the courtesy car which it sent for Miss B to 
drive whilst her car would be getting checked was dirty, didnt lock properly and the 
windscreen wipers didnt work properly. So, she contacted O and said that it would have to 
make alternative arrangements. She didnt hear anything further from it.
Shortly after this, Miss B says she noticed that the oil light and tyre pressure light came on. 
She says she bought oil and topped the car up. She had the tyres checked and made her 
own arrangements to get the AUX port fixed. She says she continued to drive the car every 
day for around five months after this with no issues. 
On 12 December 2020,  the car switched off whilst Miss B was driving it. She says there 
were no warning signs. She had to arrange for the car to be towed to her home address and 
hasnt been able to drive it since that time.
Miss B tried to contact O about what had happened. But, she says it had gone into 
administration. So, she contacted Advantage and made a complaint to it.
Advantage investigated her complaint. It arranged for the car to be inspected. It issued a 
final response letter on 23 December 2020. It said that the inspection had been carried out 
by an independent engineer and hed concluded that the most likely cause of the problem 
was a sudden electrical fault within the engine immobiliser system. Alternatively, the problem 
had been caused by consequential damage that occurred because the vehicle was run with 
insufficient oil in the sump. Advantage said that as the car was acquired as a used vehicle, 
given its age and mileage it was possible that some problems could occur within a short time 
of ownership. But, it said that it wasnt responsible for repairing the vehicle.
Miss B disagreed. She said shed not neglected the car and thered been no warning light to 
alert her to any problems. She said she was still within the six-month warranty period. So, 
she complained to our service. Miss B also told us about her circumstances at the time when 
this happened. Shed experienced a recent bereavement and had health issues. She said 
that the problems with the car had exacerbated her mental health issues. 
Our investigator looked into her complaint. She said that the car was six years old when 
Miss B had acquired it. She thought a reasonable person would expect a car of that age to 
have experienced wear and tear. In these circumstances there was a greater risk that the 
car might need repair or maintenance sooner than a younger or new car. So, where there 
was a fault with the car, that didnt mean it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point when it 
was supplied. 
Our investigator said that although Miss B had noted, when she took delivery of the car, that 
it shook when sparked, she hadnt pressed this at the time with the supplier and she didnt 
raise it again, after July, until some five months later. By that stage shed driven the car a 
further 5000 miles. The engineers report had stated that the problem with the car was likely 
caused by a sudden electrical fault and that may have been caused because it was low in 
oil. In these circumstances our investigator thought that the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. She didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss B didnt agree. She repeated that the car was within the six-month warranty period. She 
also said shed paid O £1000 to look at the car before it had been delivered to her and shed 
done that so that she could get a guarantee. Our investigator considered these points. She 
said that the complaint had been raised about Advantage  so she couldnt look into what 
happened with O. She said there was no indication in the finance agreement with Advantage 
that £1000 had been paid to O. If Miss B thought the car was covered by a warranty shed 
need to contact the warranty provider to progress that matter.
So, our investigator didnt change her view. Because Miss B didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Bs complaint here is that the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Shes also raised issues about the service provided by O, and shes mentioned a six-
month warranty. Ill comment on each of these matters separately.
Was the vehicle of satisfactory quality at the point of supply?
Miss B acquired the vehicle through a HPA. Under the relevant legislation, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, Advantage can be held liable if the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. 
The relevant law states that the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that 
a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, satisfactory quality takes a 
range of factors into account  - such as the age and mileage of the vehicle.
When Miss B acquired the vehicle, it was just over 6 years old. I can see it was first 
registered in March 2014.The mileage on the vehicle was around 80,000 miles. So, given its age and mileage, I think a reasonable person wouldve expected some wear and tear to 
have occurred. And, as our investigator said, there would be a greater risk that the car might 
need repair or maintenance sooner than a younger or brand new car.
Miss B says she identified certain problems with the vehicle as soon as it was delivered, and 
she asked for it to be checked. But, she decided not to return the car to O at that time 
because she wasnt satisfied with the courtesy car that was being provided. Given the 
description shes provided of the courtesy car, I can understand why she didnt agree to 
accept it. But, that meant her car didnt get checked and she decided to continue to drive it.
Miss B says she arranged to fix certain things herself. So, she had the tyres checked and got 
the AUX port fixed. By this stage she says the oil and tyre pressure warning lights had come 
on. So, she says she had the oil topped up. She didnt take any action to try to resolve the 
shaking problem she says occurred when she sparked the car. 
As a result of the action she did take she says she was able to continue to drive the car, 
every single day,  for five months without any issues emerging. She hasnt mentioned any 
issues during this period with the car shaking.
Miss Bs complaint is against Advantage. I can only hold it liable if I am satisfied that the 
issue Miss B experienced with her car was due to faults that were present or developing at 
the point of supply.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied, on balance, that the fault with the car, 
when it stopped, was not present or developing at the point of supply. I know this will come 
as a disappointment to Miss B, so, Ill explain why:
The Engineers report
Advantage asked an independent engineer to inspect the car. That happened in December 
2020 which was shortly after the car stopped and Miss B had arranged for it to be towed 
back to her home. 
The engineers report states that at the time of inspection the vehicle was in good condition 
taking account of its age and mileage. That is consistent with what Miss B told us about how 
she looked after her car. The engineer reported that the car cranked over but wouldnt start. 
He also noted that the service light was permanently illuminated. He thought this could mean 
that the service hadnt been carried out or the light hadnt been re-set. Miss B hasnt told us 
that she got the car serviced during the period she owned it and she hasnt mentioned the 
fact that the service light was illuminated.
The engineer carried out a diagnostic test and found several fault codes. The fault codes 
suggested the vehicle immobiliser may be faulty. He thought that would explain why the car 
wouldnt start. In his opinion there were two possible causes:
a sudden and unforeseen electrical issue within the immobiliser system; or 
consequential damage because there was insufficient oil in the sump.
Miss B says she didnt allow the vehicle to run low in oil and there were no warning lights to 
alert her to this at the time the car stopped working.
Miss B told us that shortly after she acquired the vehicle, the oil warning light came on and 
she topped the oil up. She also says that the oil light came on again on one occasion after 
that - and shed topped the oil up again. The engineer said there was no evidence of excessive oil seepage. He also noted that the 
oil was clean, but the engine oil level was very low. He hasnt said whether it was low 
enough to have caused the oil light to have been illuminated. But, as mentioned above the 
engineer did report that the service light was permanently illuminated.
The engineer wasnt definitive in his report about what had caused the vehicle to suddenly 
stop. But he thought that the most likely cause was a fault with the engine immobiliser 
system. 
Miss B had been able to drive the vehicle for five months without any issues after she 
acquired it. So, I think if thered been a problem with the immobiliser system when the car 
was supplied to her, it wouldve manifested itself much earlier. As the engineer said the 
immobiliser fault was caused either by a sudden and unforeseen electrical fault or by 
consequential damage because of insufficient oil in the sump. 
A sudden and unforeseen electrical fault, by definition, wouldnt have been present when 
she acquired the car. Consequential damage caused by insufficient oil in the sump wouldve 
developed over time. 
So, having considered the engineers report, Im satisfied, on balance, that the problem with 
the immobiliser wasnt present at the point of supply. I think it developed after Miss B took 
delivery of the vehicle. 
The MOT result
The last MOT was carried out on 5 June 2020. That was about a month before Miss B took 
delivery of the car. The car passed the test. So, Im satisfied that the problem with the 
immobiliser wasnt present or developing at that date.
Miss B says she drove the car every single day for five months without any issues
Miss B has told us she was able to drive the car every single day for five months, covering 
approximately 5000 miles, without any problems until it stopped in December 2020. And, 
although shes mentioned that at the time when she acquired the car, she noticed it 
appeared to shake when she sparked it  that doesnt appear to have prevented her from 
driving the car. She didnt pursue the issue any further at the time. 
So, for the reasons set out above, on balance, Im persuaded that the problem developed 
after the date when Miss B acquired the vehicle.
The service provided by O
Miss B says she paid O £1000 for its services. She says this amount was added to the HPA. 
She says the service O offered was to help her select the car, arrange for extra checks to be 
carried out and for the vehicle to be delivered to her.
Ive checked the HPA. Although O is mentioned as a credit intermediary there is nothing in 
the HPA to indicate that there was a separate payment of £1000 to O. So, theres no 
evidence to suggest that Advantage was aware of the payment Miss B has referred to.  
It is also the case that, for the reasons set out in the previous section, Im satisfied, on 
balance, that the vehicle was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. So, for these 
reasons, I do not think that Advantage can be held liable for any services that Miss B says O 
provided to her.The six-month warranty
There is nothing in the HPA which indicates that there is a six-month warranty period. If 
there is a separate warranty then, as our investigator said, Miss B would need to pursue any 
claim she thinks she may have under the terms of the warranty with the warranty provider.
Having considered everything here, I have not enough evidence to say that the vehicle 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Ive also no evidence to suggest that 
Advantage should be held liable for any services provided by O. And, theres no evidence to 
support what Miss B has told us about the six-month warranty.
In these circumstances Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I dont require 
Advantage to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Advantage Finance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman