DRN-4378737
The complaint
Mr H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a number of payments made out of his 
account, which he says he didnt make.
What happened
Between the end of 2021 and the middle of 2022, a number of payments were made from 
Mr Hs Monzo account which he says he didnt make. Mr H thinks someone else has been 
using his card and has also mentioned that his phone was hacked and that hes been having 
issues with his accounts with several websites. Once he noticed the payments, he reported 
them to Monzo and asked it to refund the money he had lost.
Monzo investigated but said it couldnt see how Mr Hs card details were compromised, and 
so it didnt agree to refund the payments he was disputing. Monzo did accept that the 
process of reporting the payments had caused Mr H distress though, so offered him a £25 
gift card. Mr H wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so referred a complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They couldnt see how someone else 
would have been able to make the payments without Mr Hs consent and didnt think the 
payments fitted a pattern wed typically see from fraud. So they didnt think Monzo had acted 
unreasonably in refusing to refund the payments Mr H had disputed. Mr H disagreed with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has sent us a significant amount of information and evidence in relation to this 
complaint. And while I have read and considered everything he has sent us, Ive not 
necessarily referred to or addressed everything he sent us in my decision. Instead, Ive 
focused on the most important evidence Ive relied on and the key reasons behind my 
decision.
Mr H has also sent us a significant amount of information about a number of other payments 
made out of his account which he doesnt recognise. But, in this complaint, I can only look at 
the payments he initially disputed with Monzo and which Monzo had the chance to 
investigate before his complaint was brought to our service. Any payments Mr H disputed 
after this, will have to be raised with Monzo and dealt with in later complaints.
For clarity, Ive set out the payments Mr H has disputed that have been considered as part of 
this complaint below:
Date Details Amount
8 February 2022 To online auction website £5.99
10 March 2022 To online marketplace £7.99
2 May 2022 To online payment company 
/ dating website£9.90
3 June 2022 To online payment company 
/ dating website£14.89
30 July 2022 To online marketplace £21.94
8 August 2022 To wellness centre £40
Monzo has sent us evidence that the payments to the online marketplace of £7.99 on 
10 March 2022 and £21.94 on 30 July 2022 have already been refunded to Mr H. So I 
havent considered these payments any further.
For the remaining payments, generally a business can hold a customer liable for disputed 
transactions on their account if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that the 
customer authorised the payments  for example, by making them themselves or telling 
someone else they could make them.
Deciding whether a customer has authorised payments is a two-part test. Firstly the 
payments must be authenticated, and secondly, the customer must have consented to the 
payments being made. And this doesnt necessarily require proving that the customer made 
the payments themselves, as it is possible for a customer to consent to someone else 
making payments on their account.
Monzo has sent us evidence which shows all of the above payments were made using 
Mr Hs card details  either by chip and PIN or by entering his card details online. This 
means the payments were correctly authenticated, and so I must also think about whether 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr H consented to the payments.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Payment to the online auction website
Monzo has sent us evidence that the payment of £5.99 to the online auction website on 
8 February 2022 was made by entering Mr Hs card details online. And Mr H has said he still 
had the card after this payment was made and hadnt given anyone else permission to use 
his card. But if this is the case, someone else would have needed to have taken the card 
and returned it to him without him noticing, which I think is unlikely.
The online auction website also sent evidence to Monzo which showed that the payment 
was in relation to goods which were sent to Mr Hs address. And I think its unlikely a 
fraudster would have bought goods but had them sent to Mr Hs address.
Payments to the online payment company
Monzo has sent us evidence that the payments to the online payment company of £9.90 on 
2 May 2022 and £14.89 on 3 June 2022 were made by entering Mr Hs card details online. 
And, as for the payments to the online auction website, Mr H has said he still had the card 
after this payment was made and hadnt given anyone else permission to use his card. So 
someone else would have needed to have taken his card and returned it to him several 
times without him noticing, which I think is unlikely.The online payment company also sent evidence to Monzo which showed the first payment 
was made in Mr Hs name. And after Monzo explained this to Mr H, he replied that he did 
make this payment himself.
Payment to the wellness centre
Monzo has sent us evidence that the payment of £40 to the wellness centre on 8 August 
2022 was made with Mr Hs genuine card and by entering his PIN. And Mr H told us no-one 
else knows his PIN and he hasnt written it down anywhere. But if this is the case, I cant see 
how an unknown thief would have been able to make this payment. They would have 
needed to take Mr Hs card and return it to him without him noticing, and correctly guess his 
PIN  which I think is unlikely.
The nature of all the payments Mr H has disputed are also not the sort of thing Id typically 
expect an opportunistic thief to do after gaining access to someones account. Generally, the 
way fraudsters operate is to get as much money as quickly as possible in order to avoid the 
source of the money being cut-off or them being detected. But here, there are significant 
periods of time between the payments Mr H has disputed, the payments are all for relatively 
small amounts of money and none of the payments use up the full available balance in 
Mr Hs account. So I dont think its likely any of these payments were done by an 
opportunistic thief.
I appreciate how Mr H feels about this case, but I dont think the evidence here suggests the 
payments were made by an unknown third-party. And, based on the evidence I have and in 
the absence of any other likely explanation, I think its likely he consented to the payments  
either by making them himself or by allowing someone else to make them.
And so I dont think Monzo has acted unreasonably in holding Mr H responsible for the 
payments made out of his account, or that it needs to refund these payments to him.
Monzo has offered Mr H a £25 gift card in recognition of the fact that the process of reporting 
these payments caused him distress. And, from what Ive seen of the correspondence 
between Monzo and Mr H during this complaint, I think this is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, and require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Send Mr H a gift card for £25, if it has not already done so
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman