DRN-3076300
The complaint
Mr H complains about the interest charged by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) upon early 
repayment of a personal loan. He says he was given misleading information about how 
interest would be calculated when he took out the loan.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr H applied for a personal loan of £15,000 over the phone and 
completed the application online. He said he intended to repay the balance within a few 
weeks and wanted to minimise the cost of any interest and fees  which he made clear to 
HSBC on the phone. 
Mr H settled the loan three weeks later and was charged £106.41 interest on top of the loan 
balance. Mr H is unhappy with this, he believes he should only have been charged £28.47 
based on the time it took him to repay the loan. Mr H said HSBC reassured him multiple 
times that it wouldnt charge an early repayment fee, and that hed only be charged interest 
on the loan for the days before the loan was repaid.
HSBC said its early settlement figure was calculated in line with the terms of the loan. It 
listened to the application call and said although there might have been some confusion 
about how the figure would be calculated, no error had been made.
Mr H disagreed and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said the 
terms of the loan were clear about how an early settlement would be calculated, and he 
thought HSBC explained this over the phone.
Mr H didnt agree that HSBCs agent was clear and felt there was no need to read the loan 
terms as hed already been reassured that he wouldnt be charged additional interest. He 
asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr H has raised a number of concerns about his loan and the application process. Ive 
reviewed all of the information he and HSBC have provided. Ive addressed what I consider 
to be the key points here.
I appreciate Mr H feels strongly that he was given misleading information over the phone 
when he took out this loan. And I understand hes said he relied on this information when 
deciding whether or not to take it. So, what happened in this call is key.
Having listened to the call, I dont think HSBC was misleading. It explained several times 
during that call that while it wouldnt charge a fee for settling the loan early, the settlement 
figure would include some additional interest. HSBC said if the loan was settled early, it 
would defer the repayment date by 28 days and charge a further months interest. During the 
call, HSBC also explained that it couldnt guarantee what the final settlement figure would be 
 as that would only be calculated when Mr H told it that he wanted to settle the loan.
During the call, HSBC referred Mr H to the pre-contract credit information. The agent offered 
to stay on the line while Mr H read them in case he had any questions. But Mr H declined 
this. He said he didnt need to read the loans terms as he was happy to rely on the 
information hed been given by the agent.
Having reviewed the terms of the loan, Im satisfied that it was clearly explained  both 
verbally and in writing  how interest would be calculated if Mr H settled the loan early. 
Though Mr H didnt feel the need to review the terms of the loan, he was given the 
opportunity to do so and to ask any questions. He also had the option of withdrawing from 
the agreement within 14 days if he was unhappy with the terms  which didnt happen.
Mr H is unhappy with the interest charged  and I understand that, but HSBC has shown 
how it calculated the interest, which Im satisfied was in line with the terms of the loan. So, I 
dont agree that HSBC has made an error here, or that it provided any inaccurate or 
misleading information that affected Mr Hs choice to apply for the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman