DRN-2114121
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Close Brothers 
Limited was of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr B. The car here 
nine years old and had completed about 28.000 miles. So, I think a reasonable person would 
expect some wear and tear to be present, but I think theyd expect the car to be road worthy 
and I dont think faulty brakes would render the car road worthy.
the brakes
There is no dispute that the brake repair was unsatisfactory. The independent engineer has 
confirmed that, and Close Brothers have accepted his opinion.
Mr B appears to have first reported an issue with the brakes on 20 November 2019, less 
than two months after inception of the finance. In a text message to the dealer he explained 
there was a heavy vibration.
There was a delay before the brakes could be repaired but in February 2020 there is a 
further text message from the dealership that said:
The discs are warped, not worn, apparently this is due to the low mileage and the car not 
having regular use.
I think this is likely to have referred to the lack of regular use before the car was in Mr Bs 
care as:
he hadnt had it for long when he reported the brake issue;
the mileage reported in the independent inspection in March 2020 suggests the car 
had covered about 5,000 miles which, in the six months since inception, would be 
about average mileage. The dealers comments about low mileage would therefore, 
most likely, relate to a time before Mr B took receipt of the vehicle;
whilst there was a successful MOT on 1 August 2019, Mr B didnt take delivery of the 
car for a further two months. It appears the mileage was unchanged and that 
suggests the car was not used much, if at all, in the interim period. 
On balance, I think it is most likely that the brakes were not of a satisfactory standard when 
the car was provided to Mr B. 
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to fix a problem that is present 
at the point of sale. I think Close Brothers had that opportunity but its clear the repair failed 
and in those circumstances I think they should allow Mr B to reject the car. 
the suspension
I can see Mr B reported an issue with the suspension very shortly after he took charge of the 
vehicle. The relevant legislation sets an expectation that repairs should be completed in a 
reasonable time and I see that Mr B was kept waiting for several months before a repair was 
eventually completed in December 2019. That may well be another reason why Close 
Brothers need to allow Mr B the chance to reject the car, but I dont think its necessary for 
me to consider this any further as Im persuaded on the basis of the failed brake repair that 
the car should be rejected.
the delay
Mr B has been waiting for a resolution to his complaint for some time and in the meantime 
payments have been due against his credit agreement and his car has been undrivable 
since 25 February 2020.
Ive considered who should be responsible for those payments.
Mr B had a call with Close Brothers on 27 February 2020. In that call, which he has 
provided, he says he was advised not to have any repairs completed on the car.
So, as I find that Close Brothers should have allowed him to reject the car at that stage and 
have told him not to get the car repaired, I dont think its fair to expect Mr B to have made 
any payments towards the vehicle from 27 February 2019 onwards. 
other mechanical issues with the car
The independent inspector who is an expert in these matters thinks that the only problem 
with the car, that is not related to Mr Bs collision with a pot hole in December 2019, is the faulty brakes. I dont think there is sufficient evidence to dispute this.
The terms of Mr Bs contract with Close Brothers says the car should be returned in good 
and reasonable order. Mr B will therefore need to rectify any damage caused by the pot hole 
before the car is collected by Close Brothers. 
I understand the broken alloy and tyre have been fixed and that Mr B says there are no other 
problems with the car. 
Businesses will usually inspect vehicles before collecting them and the finance agreement 
allows the business to apply charges if the car is not in the requisite condition. That condition 
is set out in the industry guidelines provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA). 
As Im only suggesting the brakes where of unsatisfactory quality Mr B will need to ensure 
the rest of the car is up to standard or he may face refurbishment charges from Close 
Brothers.
Putting things right
The business should take the car back and end the finance agreement. They should refund 
Mr Bs deposit adding interest to that refund as Mr B has been deprived of that money.
They should also refund any payments Mr B has made towards his finance agreement from, 
and including, 27 February 2020 when the vehicle was off the road. They should also add 
interest to that refund. 
Mr B has been inconvenienced by matters and I would agree that Close Brothers should pay 
him £100 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay by Mr B;
collect the car at no cost to Mr B;
refund any finance instalments Mr B may have paid since February 2020 and add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund any deposit Mr B has paid and add 8% simple interest per year from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr B £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman