DRN-3957985
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they were mis-sold a holiday club product and the loan used to 
pay for it. The loan was provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which trades as 
Barclays Partner Finance and which Ill refer to as BPF. Mr and Mrs H are represented by a 
firm of solicitors, which Ill call P.
What happened
In February 2009 Mr and Mrs H entered into an agreement with Club La Costa (UK) Limited 
(CLC) for the purchase of a points-based holiday club membership. They bought 1,000 
points for just under £19,000. Their points could be used to book holiday accommodation, 
but the agreement did not give Mr and Mrs H any ownership rights in respect of any 
accommodation.
The holiday agreement was funded by a loan provided by BPF.
In August 2013 Mr and Mrs D upgraded their holiday club membership to fractional 
ownership. Under that arrangement, they, along with other members with the same 
arrangements, had a beneficial interest in an allocated property. Although the arrangement 
did not give them any rights to occupy or otherwise use property, they could still use their 
fractional points to book accommodation. When the allocated property was sold, they would 
be entitled to a share of the proceeds.
The upgrade to fractional ownership was funded in part by a trade-in of Mr and Mrs Hs 
holiday points and in part with a payment of £8,668. The payment was not funded by BPF. 
Its loan was settled at around the same time.
In March 2021 P contacted BPF on behalf of Mr and Mrs H. It said that CLC had acted 
unlawfully at the time of the 2009 sale and had misled Mr and Mrs H about the contract they 
were entering into. P said that BPF should meet their claims and that the actions of CLC 
meant that the loan agreement had created an unfair relationship. P said too that BPF had 
not properly assessed whether the loan was appropriate and affordable for Mr and Mrs H 
before agreeing to lend to them.
The matter was referred to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld, however, and 
so the complaint was referred to me.
I considered what had happened and issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
The complaint about suitability and the credit assessment
P says that BPF did not properly assess the affordability or suitability of the loan. Given the 
time that has passed since it was taken out, there is very little evidence of what, if any, 
checks were made. P has not however provided anything to show that the loan was not 
affordable, and I note that Mr and Mrs H paid a further £8,668 to CLC in 2013. That does not 
appear to me to be the action of customers who were having difficulty making the loan 
payments.
Be that as it may, our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it 
is referred to us within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of 
the date on which the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that he had 
cause for complaint.
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in February 2009. Mr and Mrs H would have known fairly soon after that date if 
they were having difficulty making repayments. It follows that this part of the complaint 
should have been referred to this service by no later than 8 February 2015  six years from 
the date Mr and Mrs H took the loan out. Because it was not, we have no power to consider 
it.
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act statements made by a broker in connection 
with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.
In addition, one effect of section 75 of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for breach 
of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, bring 
that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier.
It is clear in this case that the loan financed the purchase of the club membership. Because 
the loan documents are not available, it is not clear whether CLC, as well as being the seller 
of the holiday club membership, also arranged the finance under arrangements with BPF. I 
have nevertheless considered what the position is likely to be on the basis that the 
necessary pre-existing arrangements were in place.
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
The evidence about what Mr and Mrs H were told is vague and largely unsupported by 
documents.
Be that as it may, under the Limitation Act 1980 an action (that is, court action) based on 
misrepresentation cannot generally be brought after six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. Any statements which might have induced Mr and Mrs H into the 
purchase of the holiday club membership were made on or before 8 February 2009. They 
did not however raise any complaint with BPF until March 2021, some twelve years later. I 
think it very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim for misrepresentation 
was made outside the time limit in the Limitation Act.
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether any underlying claim is now out of time under 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must decide whether the response of BPF to the claim under 
section 75 was reasonable. Given the real possibility that a court would say that the claims 
are time-barred, I think it was.Since it was not financed by BPF, I make no comment on the fractional ownership 
arrangement that Mr and Mrs H bought in 2013.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
The usual time limit for these types of claims under the Limitation Act is six years from the 
time the relationship between the parties ended. The loan is this case was repaid when Mr 
and Mrs H upgraded or switched their membership to a fractional ownership arrangement in 
August 2013. I think it is very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim 
under section 140A would now also be out of time. It follows that I believe BPFs response to 
this part of the complaint was reasonable.
Neither BPF nor P has responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has said anything in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason 
to change my view of the complaint.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman