DRN-3556615
The complaint
Miss D complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt identify payments to her 
account as suspicious and didnt tell her that a fraud refund could be reversed.
What happened
Miss D disputed 37 payments made to an online gaming merchant using her card details 
and which totalled £1,528.41. She received a refund but then a re-debit of £591.88. These 
were the specific payments the merchant claimed were genuine. This money was refunded 
too when she returned a fraud declaration form. She doesnt think RBS should have allowed 
these out of character payments in the first place.
RBS said that it had systems to identify fraud and that these payments hadnt met fraud 
trends at that time. It said that when Miss D reported the fraud on 9 October 2020 the person 
dealing with her couldnt have known that the merchant would challenge things and so warn 
her of a potential re-debit. It had written to her on 5 November 2020 with a fraud declaration 
form and as it hadnt received this by the deadline of 19 November 2020 had re-debited the 
money. It couldnt be responsible for her not receiving this form. When she contacted it again 
and returned the form all the money was permanently refunded.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that it do anything more as the outcome was fair and RBS 
had taken the necessary steps.
Miss D who is represented in this complaint didnt agree. The representative said that for 
RBS not to recognise such a high number of payments as potentially fraudulent was a 
massive failing. While he accepted that RBS may have acted in line with its procedure he 
thought that this was a poor response to what happened. He wanted an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D wouldnt generally be responsible for unauthorised transactions to her account. Here 
she disputed the payments and the result is that she isnt being held responsible for them. 
These payments were each of relatively low average value, but they all were made from 
what Ive seen on 8 October 2020 starting from 12:15.
I understand Miss Ds point about them being out of character. No fraud detection system is 
going to identify all fraud and there is the opposing risk that genuine payments may be 
declined. Here as a fraudster had somehow obtained Miss Ds details and was able to use 
them I think it likely she would in any event have to deal with a fraud claim of some value. 
And as shes not being held responsible for any of them Im not going to be commenting 
further on RBS processes here as I dont need to in order fairly to deal with this complaint.
RBS has been unable to provide me with a recording of the call of 9 October 2020 and the 
representative says he listened in and that Miss D wasnt told that the refund could be 
temporary. So, I accept as he says that she was given the impression that her claim had 
been accepted and that this was fraud and so she was given a refund.
The merchant challenged some but not all of the payments. My understanding is that all 
RBS wanted Miss D to do was to confirm in the light of the information the merchant had 
provided that she didnt recognise those payments. Its shown it wrote to her about that on 5 
November 2020, it seems the day after the merchant responded. And said that she had 14 
days to come back and that if she didnt the amounts would be debited. Im satisfied that this 
was sent to her and I cant know why either Miss D didnt receive that or maybe had 
overlooked it. But as shed not made the declaration the amounts were re-debited. When 
she contacted RBS again a refund was processed, and she signed the necessary 
declaration and the matter was resolved.
While it would have been helpful if RBS had mentioned that technically the initial refund was 
pending the chargeback process, I dont think that this made a significant difference here. It 
would always have wanted her to deal with the merchants feedback and took her 
declaration at face value. The outcome is that she isnt being held responsible for these 
payments. So, for these reasons I wont be requiring RBS to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman