DRN-3862143
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc has cancelled a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy that covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment.
What happened
Pinnacle wrote to Mr L on 30 March 2022 to inform him that the PPI policy would be 
cancelled on 27 July 2022.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint because Pinnacle had made a business decision 
to withdraw this policy and had provided Mr L with sufficient notice of the cancellation, in line 
with the policy terms. He also concluded that Pinnacle was not required to refund the 
premiums.
Mr L disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L says it is unethical for Pinnacle to withdraw its policies from existing customers. 
However, Pinnacle is entitled to take a view on whether it wishes to continue to offer certain 
products and this service would not normally involve itself in the commercial decisions of an 
insurer in deciding to offer or withdraw particular products. I'm only looking at whether 
Pinnacle acted fairly in the way that it cancelled the policy.
Pinnacle wrote to Mr L on 15 February 2022 to explain that it was adding an endorsement 
(or amendment) to the policy. The endorsement would take effect on 22 March 2022 and 
would allow Pinnacle to cancel the policy subject to giving at least 90 days notice to 
policyholders.
Pinnacle then wrote to Mr L on 30 March 2022 giving four months notice of its intention to 
cancel the policy with effect from 27 July 2022. Im therefore satisfied that Pinnacle acted 
within the terms of the policy by giving more than the required period of notice.
Mr L has objected to the wording: in the unlikely event in the endorsement as being 
disingenuous. The timing of events, with the cancellation notice being sent on 30 March 
2022, only eight days after the endorsement had come into effect, demonstrates that the 
endorsement was part of an orchestrated plan.
However, Mr L would still be in the same position he is in now, even if Pinnacle had used 
different, more upfront, wording. Pinnacle was still entitled to vary the terms of the policy by 
giving 30 days notice of an endorsement, which is what it did. And it provided its 
policyholders with sufficient notice to source alternative cover and signposted people to 
where they could find information about continuing cover. So whilst I take Mr Ls point about 
the wording of the endorsement, on balance, Im unable to conclude that Pinnacle acted 
unfairly.
Mr L says he wants a refund of all the premiums he has paid over the last 17 years. 
However, he was covered by the policy during that time and could have claimed on it if 
necessary. Therefore it would be inappropriate to refund the premiums.
Mr L says he has since been diagnosed with a health condition that would likely be exempt 
from any new policy he took out. Or, if not, the policy would likely be more expensive.
I do sympathize with Mr L for the position he finds himself in. However, Pinnacle took the 
decision to cancel all of its PPI policies. As such, Im unable to conclude that it has treated 
Mr L unfairly because it did not look at his individual circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr L is upset and wishes to maintain his current accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. However, looking at Pinnacles actions, I consider that it has acted 
within the policy terms and conditions to cancel the policy with the appropriate amount of 
notice. Had Mr L become sick or unemployed prior to the cancellation date, the policy would 
still have covered him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman