DRN-3707005
The complaint
Mr B complains about the unsuccessful transfer of his Tencent shares and cash from Halifax 
Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing, referred to as HSDL or the 
business, to a third-party provider, referred to as the transferee. 
Mr B doesnt agree that £200 compensation offered by the business is fair or reasonable. To 
put things right, he wants HSDL to pay him £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
What happened
On 11 June 2020, Mr B requested the transfer of his portfolio. All shares, apart from the 
Tencent shares, and some cash, were successfully transferred.  
Mr B says the transfer didnt complete because HSDL rebooked the shares on a different 
overseas market, even though hed originally bought them on the German exchange 
(Xetra). But for reasons unknown, HSDL rebooked the shares on the Luxemburg market, 
also referred to as Lux). I note the transferee was unable to accept the shares, because it 
doesnt deal on the Luxemburg market. 
Mr B is unhappy that the shares were moved, and HSDL didnt give any reasoning as to why 
this had happened. So, in February 2021, he complained to the business.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint and initially  without HSDL providing a 
business file  decided that the complaint should be upheld. In short, she said that the 
Tencent shares wouldve transferred if they hadnt been rebooked on a different exchange. 
HSDL provided no explanation as to why this happened, and no solution. She recommended 
that the business pay £300 compensation and waive the platform fees for this period. 
HSDL disagreed with the investigators initial view and in due course provided a business file 
and explanation as to why it rebooked the Tencent shares on the Luxemburg exchange. The 
investigator having considered the additional points was persuaded to change her mind. In 
summary, she said:
In November 2018, investment providers across Europe were required to adopt a 
new trading platform called TARGET2-Securities (T2S). This platform changed the 
process of investment settlements, so that trades are made using the central banks 
money rather than the providers own funds. 
The platform also implemented new rules and practices for trades. One of them was 
that all investments purchased in Germany with non-German International 
Securities Identification Number (ISIN) must be relocated to Luxemburg. 
The Tencent shares Mr B purchased, had a non-German ISIN, so were moved to 
Luxemburg in 2018. 
As a result of the new practices, the place of custody for the Tencent shares was 
changed  a change that was implemented across the whole of Europe  so, shes 
unable to say that HSDL is at fault in this instance. 
In the circumstances, she cant ask HSDL to pay compensation for being unable to 
trade the shares via Germany, because the shares are non-tradable. HSDL cant just 
sell them and transfer the cash.    
HSDL are also unable to waive platform fees, but thats not unreasonable given that 
it has done nothing wrong. 
Mr B may wish to obtain financial advice before deciding what to do.   
HSDL accepts that it couldve done more to clarify the situation. But aside from that, 
it was unable to control, or influence, the custody place of the shares. Thats why it 
should pay Mr B £200 compensation (reduced from £300) for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
HSDL accepted the investigators latest recommendation. However, Mr B disagreed with the 
investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Theres been much 
correspondence between him and our investigator, but in short, he made the following key 
points:
The investigators view is unacceptable. Hes now expected to sell these shares 
himself and still pay fees to HSDL. 
Despite what HSDL said, the Tencent shares in other accounts are tradable. 
HSDL had a duty to contact him before rebooking the shares, and by failing to do so 
has left in a worse financial position. 
There wasnt a need to move all the Tencent shares. He could still find that the 
shares traded on Xetra but not Lux, so the move wasnt compulsory. 
He asked a series of questions to which he wanted answers.    
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
Shes sorry the decision wasnt in Mr Bs favour. 
HSDL didnt deliberately move/relocate the shares of its own accord, or do so in 
error, it was something it had to do. 
It might be able to transfer his shares to another provider that deals with Luxemburg 
securities. 
Information  in the form of correspondence between HSDL and a large international 
banking group (the group)  confirmed that the Tencent shares arent tradable via 
Germany because of their ISIN. 
The group also checked with a centralized clearing system for Eurobonds but were 
told an alternative wasnt available. 
Tencent shares that can still be traded are unlikely to have the same ISIN. In any 
case, she cant comment on what other providers can and cant do. 
In response to Mr Bs questions she said:
oShe cant comment on why all stock broking firms havent transferred all 
Tencent shares to Luxemburg. Thats not the purpose of her view. 
oShes not an expert in the field and therefore isnt able to give an expert view 
on why the shares are listed on Germany Brse which operated the Xetra 
trading venue. 
oIts not unusual in the face of industry wide changes not to communicate this 
to investors, until after a situation has arisen that it is affected by these 
changes.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
However, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr B says, I think the 
latest recommendation by the investigator  to pay him £200 compensation  is broadly fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Bs strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr B wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point/question raised. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Mr B, and HSDL, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Im aware that Mr B has made a service complaint. Thats not something I can comment 
upon in this decision because it is a separate matter for our service to deal with.  
Whilst I appreciate why Mr B was, and still is, unhappy with the situation. Its not something I 
can blame the business for. 
Based on what Mr B says, it seems that earlier in the year he wasnt aware of why HSDL 
had rebooked his Tencent shares on a different market and he blamed the business for this 
and the unsuccessful transfer of his shares. Im conscious that Mr B felt like the business 
had taken matters into its own hands for no reason, causing him financial loss. 
I also appreciate that up until fairly recently the business hadnt made its position clear. But 
based what it now says, I understand that the business didnt simply choose  of its own 
volition and without any good reason  to rebook the Tencent shares on another platform. 
Im satisfied that it did so as a result of decisions being made at a much higher level. 
On balance, I dont think the business was obliged to notify Mr B of this change, and 
therefore hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so. Im satisfied that the matter was 
outside of its purview and wasnt something that it could predict or control. It could be argued 
that it was simply there to implement the direction as it were. I appreciate Mr B feels like the 
business has as a result left him in a financially worse position, but its not something I can 
blame the business for. 
Although Mr B doesnt think that there was a requirement to transfer all Tencent shares to 
Luxemburg, based on what HSDL says, on balance, Im unable to agree with him. Its 
possible there are still Tencent trades on Xetra, but those are likely to be shares that arent 
excluded. I understand that all investments purchased in Germany with non-German ISINs, 
had to be relocated to Luxemburg, and thats why Mr Bs Tencent shares were moved to 
Luxemburg in 2018.  
I appreciate what Mr B says about other providers, but their decision to comply or not comply 
with the changes is not something I can comment upon. In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant say HSDL is to blame for Mr B not being able 
to transfer Tencent shares and/or trade through Germany. I also dont think its to blame for 
the transferor not being able to accept the Tencent shares via Luxemburg. Im satisfied that 
this is not something the business has done either deliberately, or in error, to cause Mr B 
any distress, and more likely than not had no choice in the matter.  
I appreciate Mr B has asked a number of questions, but my not answering his questions  
over and beyond what the investigator has already explained  doesnt prevent me from 
reaching a decision in this case. On balance Im satisfied that Ive covered the material 
points. If Mr B still wants further answers to questions  specifically relating to his investment 
 Im sure the business will assist. 
Im aware that his Tencent shares will remain with HSDL for the foreseeable future if/until 
theyre tradable again. In the circumstance, and on balance, I dont think the business is 
being unreasonable by not agreeing to waive the platform fees, because it hasnt done 
anything wrong with regards to why the shares arent currently tradable. And its still entitled 
to charge for providing a service.   
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the £200 compensation recommended by the 
investigator is broadly fair and reasonable for HSDL failing to provide Mr B with an 
explanation sooner. I think this wouldve managed his expectations better, rather than him 
trying to transfer his shares not knowing what was going on.  
I appreciate Mr B will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give him 
what he wants other than what Ive ordered.   
Putting things right
Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing should pay Mr B £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing should pay Mr B 
compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman