DRN-4067163
The complaint
Ms M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC placed negative markers on her credit file, after 
it reduced the lending available to her through her Mortgage Current Account (MCA). Ms M 
said she wasnt warned about this, and she wanted the markers removed 
What happened
Ms M approached Barclays in late 2022, to say that shed previously complained about 
negative markers on her credit file, and Barclays had agreed to remove these. But negative 
markers were still showing on her credit file. 
Barclays investigated, and said that it had agreed to remove some negative markers, on a 
buy to let mortgage, in 2019. But it said that the negative marker Ms M was referring to now 
was on a different account. It related to her MCA. 
Barclays said it reduced the borrowing limit on Ms Ms MCA in late October 2019. But, at the 
same time, Ms M removed all the money in the account, up to her old borrowing limit. So the 
reduction in late 2019 then left her over her revised borrowing limit. 
Barclays said it had replied to Ms Ms complaint about the reduction in her MCA borrowing 
limit in December 2019, and it wouldnt reopen this now. 
Ms M then brought the MCA back into credit, but the MCA was overdrawn in November 
2019, and Barclays had marked Ms Ms credit file then. It didnt think it had made any 
mistake about that. 
Barclays also sent our service a letter titled Notice of Outstanding Mortgage Payments 
dated 27 October 2019, which was addressed to Ms M. This letter told Ms M she needed to 
pay back the bulk of the money shed taken out of her MCA, because she was now very 
substantially over her new limit. The second page of this letter warned of the upcoming 
impact on her credit file. It said Credit reference agencies will record additional information 
on your credit file when  The balance of a secured current/reserve account exceeds the 
authorised limit by £70 or more. Ms M was over her new limit by more than £70.
Barclays told us it had written to Ms M on 18 November 2022, to respond to her complaint 
about marks on her credit file. That letter explained that Ms M appeared to be confusing the 
complaint she made in 2019 about her buy to let mortgage, which was upheld by our 
service, with a separate complaint, about her MCA. Barclays said it had reported the position 
of her MCA correctly to credit reference agencies (CRAs) and it wouldnt change this.
Our service has previously provided a decision explaining why we cannot consider the first 
part of Ms Ms complaint now, that her MCA limit was reduced in 2019. 
Our investigator looked at Ms Ms complaint about the markers Barclays had put on her 
credit file, and that she hadnt been warned that this would happen. He didnt think this 
complaint should be upheld. He said hed seen the letter Ms M was sent explaining her 
account was in arrears, on 27 October 2019, and it was sent to the right address. He said 
the letter did explain to Ms M that her credit file would be impacted. And our investigator 
thought Ms M had received this letter, because she called Barclays on 30 October 2019 to 
complain. 
Our investigator said the MCA was still over its limit by the end of November. So he didnt 
think Barclays did anything wrong when it reported that to CRAs. Ms M brought the account 
back under its limit in December 2019, and there are no further markers on Ms Ms credit 
file. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong, and he said he wouldnt ask 
it to amend Ms Ms credit file now.
Ms M didnt agree. She said she was told she could use the MCA borrowing facility, she 
wasnt warned of the impact on her credit file and didnt get any letter about this. Ms M also 
wanted to know when this negative marker was recorded.
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I should clarify that this decision only looks at the second part of Ms Ms complaint, which is 
that Barclays has placed negative markers on her credit file, and she wasnt warned this 
would happen.
I know Ms M says that she didnt get any letter warning her about her credit file. But, like our 
investigator, I note that she contacted Barclays to complain on 30 October 2019. When she 
first contacted Barclays, she said she wanted to know why she had received a mortgage 
arrears letter, because she was paying on time. I think its most likely that this arrears letter, 
which Ms M queried with Barclays on 30 October 2019, is the letter it sent on 27 October 
2019 about her MCA. 
Ive seen that letter, and I can see it does warn about the impact on Ms Ms credit file. So I 
do think Ms M was warned that her MCA being over its limit was likely to affect her credit file. 
Ms M then made two large payments to her MCA. One of these was received by Barclays on 
15 November 2019, but the second large payment and one smaller payment, which put the 
account slightly into credit, werent made until 12 December. So I think that Ms Ms account 
with Barclays was over its revised limit in November 2019, and it was reasonable for 
Barclays to notify CRAs of this. That does seem to me to be the mark Ive seen on her credit 
file. So I dont think Barclays has to remove this now.
Ms M wanted to know when this marker was put onto her credit file. I think its likely that this 
happened in late 2019 or very early in 2020. But I havent asked Barclays to confirm this. 
Thats because even if this marker wasnt put onto Ms Ms credit file until more recently, I still 
wouldnt say Barclays had to take it back off, just because of that. Im satisfied that it 
accurately reflects the position of Ms Ms account at the time, and it isnt a mistake.
I know that Ms M will be disappointed, as shes told us about the impact this credit file mark 
is having, but I dont think that Barclays has to remove this now. And that means I dont think 
her complaint should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman