DRN-3150360
The complaint
 Mr H complains about Bastion Insurance Services Limited (Bastion) who declined his claim 
under his gadget insurance 
What happened
 Mr H took out a gadget insurance policy in October 2020. In June 2021, he made a claim for 
the loss of his mobile phone. Mr H said that he reported the loss on 12 June 2021 and was 
told that he would have to complete a claim form, which would be sent to him. Mr H said that 
he didnt receive the claim form and attempted to chase Bastion for it. Despite this, he 
completed a report of phone loss to his phone provider. 
Bastion later declined Mr Hs claim as it said that he hadnt reported the loss of his phone 
within a 48 hours timeframe to report its loss. Mr Hs was unhappy with this outcome, as he 
also said that there was no timeframe given and he had reported the loss of the phone within 
24 hours. So, he referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Her view 
was that Mr H had reported the loss of the phone within a reasonable timeframe.  And as 
there was no timeframe mentioned, she recommended that Bastion pay the claim. 
Mr H agreed with the view, Bastion did not. It said that Mr H had contacted a different 
company (that wasnt Bastion) to report the loss. That the time limits on the policy are not 
unusual and are used within the insurance industry. Mr H didnt follow those time limits, even 
though they are outlined in the policy terms and conditions, which he certified that he had 
read. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My second provisional decision
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 22 September 2021. In my provisional decision I didnt think that Mr 
H had shown that he had complied with the requirements under the policy of reporting a 
claim. I asked both parties to provide me anything else they wished me to consider by 22 
October 2021.  Having assessed everything, Im minded to uphold the complaint and Ill 
explain why.
Responses to my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that if Mr H could provide evidence of having reported the 
loss of his phone as per the terms and conditions of the policy, then I would consider it.  Mr 
H provided further evidence to show that he complied with the policy terms. This evidence 
related to proof that he reported the lost phone to police and obtained a lost property 
number. Proof that he had had the phone blocked with his mobile phone provider. As well as 
proof that he had reported the loss, to his mobile phone provider and showed the last date 
and time the phone was used. This evidence was sent to Bastion for its comments.
Bastion did not provide any further responses to my provisional decision. But said that a 
network provider cant give a police report. 
I have further reviewed the evidence given the responses received. 
Im satisfied that Mr H has provided enough evidence to show that he reported the loss of his 
phone within a reasonable timeframe. And had complied with the terms of his policy 
regarding who he needed to report the loss to. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I think that Mr H did comply with the terms and 
conditions of his policy when he made his claim and I intend to ask Bastion to put matters 
right.
I also think that Mr H suffered from a level of distress and inconvenience, especially as he 
mentioned the numerous calls and having to chase Bastion to try and resolve the complaint. 
For this, I think it is fair and reasonable that Bastion pay compensation for the trouble and 
upset it caused of £100. 
Responses to my second provisional decision
Mr H accepted my findings but explained that as he had replaced the phone, could Bastion 
provide him with the cash equivalent. He also asked for a letter of apology from Bastion.
Bastion said that Mr H hadnt provided a police report and that a report my loss isnt a police 
report. It again reiterated that Mr H hadnt reported the loss of his phone within 48 hours to 
the correct business.
I have further considered the responses. I have also further considered the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Bastion said that Mr H hadnt provided a police report and that a 
report my loss wasnt a police report.
However, the policy terms under the section of how policyholders are to evidence a claim 
says: e) You must report the Theft or Accidental Loss of any gadget(s) to the Police within 
24 hours of discovery of loss and obtain a crime reference number in support of a Theft, and 
a lost property number in support of an Accidental Loss claim. 
Mr H provided the lost property number from the police which was sent to Bastion for 
comment. Given the terms of the policy, a policyholder had to evidence a lost phone by 
providing a lost property number. Mr H appears to have done just that, so Im satisfied that 
Mr H complied with the policy term.
I have next considered whether Mr H reported the loss of the phone to the incorrect business 
within the time. Bastion said that he had reported the lost phone to a separate business, that 
wasnt in anyway connected to Bastion. It further explained that Mr H had reported the loss 
two days after the phone went missing. 
Mr H said that he reported the loss of the phone on the day the phone went missing. He 
provided evidence that showed that he reported the loss to Bastions claims administrator and received a confirmation, that showed he had reported the phone on the day of its loss, 
so within 24 hours. 
Bastion said that Mr B reported the loss to a different business and produced evidence that it 
said proved this. I have considered the evidence and the contents of an email, which shows 
that Mr H was chasing for a claims form. The email is dated two days after the loss of the 
phone and addressed to a different company. But, as I previously mentioned, Mr H did 
provide evidence to show that he contacted the correct business on the date of the loss of 
his phone. So, Im satisfied that he had logged the loss of his phone with Bastion, as he was 
required to do under the terms and conditions of the policy. Consequently, I dont think that 
email was a report of the loss of the phone but merely Mr H chasing the claims form, which 
he hadnt received, following the report of the loss of his phone. 
Mr H has asked to be refunded in cash as he has now replaced his phone. I have further 
considered the terms and conditions of the policy. I can see that Mr Hs policy allows for the 
cash value to be replaced based on the age and condition of the original phone: This policy 
does not provide a 'replacement as new' Gadget. If your Gadget cannot be replaced with an 
identical item of the same age and condition, we will replace it with one of comparable 
specification or the equivalent value, considering the age and condition of the original item. 
So, Im satisfied that Bastion can replace the lost phone with the equivalent value, bearing in 
mind, the age and condition of the original phone. 
  
Putting things right
 I direct Bastion Insurance Services Limited to put things right as I set out below. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Bastion Insurance Services 
Limited to:
Replace Mr Hs phone with the cash equivalent value, as per the policy terms and 
conditions.
To pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Bastion Insurance Services Limited must pay both above amounts within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the above amounts from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Bastion Insurance Services Limited to deduct tax from 
the interest payment referred above, Bastion Insurance Services Limited must give Mr H a 
certificate showing how much tax it deducts, if they ask them for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman