DRN-1616407
The complaint
S, a business, complains about the charges applied by Elavon Financial Services 
Designated Activity Company for not complying with payment card industry data security 
standards (PCI DSS).
What happened
S arranged through a separate service provider P to enter into agreements with Elavon to 
provide card payment processing services and another business to provide a virtual card 
terminal. In March 2017 a renewal was agreed with P. After that Elavon wrote to S to explain 
that charges relating to it not complying with PCI DSS standards were going to increase. 
And S complains that the nature of these charges and what was involved were not explained 
to it sufficiently.
S has also made a complaint about P. And an ombudsman colleague has already decided 
that P was responsible for any shortcomings in the explanation of these charges at the time 
of renewal.
Our investigator said that here S had signed a specific agreement with Elavon in June 2013. 
And that S had 90 days to become PCI DSS compliant. As it had not done so Elavon 
charged it £17 a month from September 2013 and this was increased to £25 in September 
2017. It said that it had written to S in July 2015, June 2017 and September 2018 about its 
non-compliance and had sent emails too. So, he didnt think Elavon had made a mistake.
S did not agree. It said that Elavon shared a responsibility with P for ensuring that the 
charges were explained, and it had a duty of care to S. It had not given sufficient notice of its 
requirements and there should have been a back out clause if compliance was not feasible. 
It has not provided adequate support and its fees are not reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the original agreement that S signed in June 2013 with Elavon. That set 
out the PCI DSS charges for non-compliance. P had arranged the agreement and I think 
Elavon could reasonably think that S had agreed to the terms. The charges were applied in 
line with the agreement and ought to have been visible to P. And Elavon has explained to 
this service that if it cannot provide proof of compliance then it is charged and can be fined 
for breaches. These costs are passed on.
S was reasonably required to comply with the standards established by the card schemes 
whichever business processed payments for it. I appreciate that S says that it found the 
requirement to achieve compliance difficult especially for a small business. And it did not find 
Elavon helped it. Im afraid that I cant reasonably look at the processes Elavon puts in place 
or the level of charges as we are not the regulator. Or say that these should differ depending 
on the size of a business. 
The resolution I referred to in the complaint about P has dealt with issues when the 
agreement through P was renewed and decided where responsibility lies for addressing 
them. Im afraid I think that before then the requirements were reasonably brought to the 
attention of S in documentation and letters. And so, I dont conclude that Elavon ought to 
have done more.
I know that S will be disappointed when I say that I wont be asking Elavon to take any 
further action about this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman