DRN-2228341
The complaint
Miss C complains that Valour Finance Limited, trading as Savvy.co.uk (Savvy) promised to 
remove a default from her credit file but didnt.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Savvy, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ill not comment on whether the original loan was mis-sold as thats not the subject of this 
complaint. I am considering whether Savvy acted fairly and in line with what they told Miss C 
they would do.
Miss C has provided an email chain in which the removal of the default is discussed. On 22 
June 2016 an email from Savvy to Miss C said:
We agreed that we would remove the Default from your Credit File.
Savvy dispute this email. They say it couldnt have been sent as all emails are copied on 
their servers and they dont have a copy.
Im persuaded that its most likely the email was sent by Savvy. I say that because:
Savvy accept that an agent of the same name once worked for them; 
the email chain contains detailed information that I dont think someone attempting to 
forge evidence would include i.e. details of Savvys management structure and of the 
credit bureaus normal response times. It also makes reference to the agents holiday 
and, as this is checkable, I think it would be unlikely that it would be included in a 
fabricated email;
Savvy has provided very limited evidence in support of their assertion the email 
hasnt originated from them.
So, Im persuaded that Savvy did tell Miss C that they would remove the default marker. But 
I think that was a mistake as they hadnt accepted that the loan was mis-sold and were only 
proposing to mark the account as settled. This wouldnt ordinarily remove a previous default.
Putting things right
So, I dont think Savvy should remove the default, but I do think they should compensate 
Miss C for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced as a result of them promising 
to do so. Shes had to pursue a claim through them and escalate it to this service when I 
think the evidence was clearly made out. In the circumstances, I think Savvy should pay her 
£250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Valour Finance Limited to 
pay Miss C £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman