DRN-3324288
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as L, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc approved an 
unauthorised Bounce Back Loan application  which meant that its genuine application 
couldnt proceed.
Mr S is Ls director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
L banked with HSBC. 
HSBC received an application for a Bounce Back Loan of £3,000, purportedly from L and 
authorised by Mr S, on 21 May 2020. HSBC approved the application and issued a loan 
agreement to L the same day. The agreement was electronically signed on 5 June 2020, 
and HSBC issued the £3,000 to Ls account later that day.
Mr S says that this application and subsequent agreement were not authorised or entered 
into by him.
Concurrently, HSBC received a second application for a Bounce Back Loan for L. This was a 
request for £50,000, submitted on 2 June. Mr S says that this was the only application he 
made.
Mr S contacted HSBC on 18 June. He explained that he was expecting to receive a £50,000 
loan for L  but had noticed a loan of only £3,000 credited to the account. HSBC investigated 
Mr Ss queries as a complaint. 
While the matter was under investigation, Mr S visited an HSBC branch and withdrew 
£3,000 in cash on 29 June and again on 14 July. Following two other cash withdrawals of 
£300 on 14 July, L was left with an account balance of around £750.
HSBC responded to the complaint in October 2020. It said that the Bounce Back Loan was 
administered through an automated journey, which meant the information it had sight of 
was very limited. The bank t said it had processed the first application for £3,000 in line with 
the request received and would not be willing to increase the loan to L. Businesses could 
only borrow one loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, so L was unable to apply again 
to the bank or elsewhere.
Mr S remained unhappy and referred the matter to us. He said he didnt authorise the first 
application and had only made the request for £50,000. So he wanted an investigation as to 
how the £3,000 loan had been approved  and to put things right, he wanted HSBC to 
provide the £50,000 loan.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, 
she said:
There wasnt sufficient information to confirm who had submitted the £3,000 loan 
application, whether Mr S or someone else.
Within the first application, the applicant had provided a different phone number and 
email address for L to that held on file by HSBC. But the application had been made 
with Ls bank account details  with funds then deposited into that account  and so 
anyone seeking to benefit from the application wouldve needed access to that 
account. She understood from Mr S that he was the only person who had such 
access.
Mr S had known by 18 June that a £3,000 Bounce Back Loan had been credited to 
Ls account and, when speaking to HSBC that day, was told that it was only possible 
to have one loan per business. So she thought Mr S couldve asked to return the 
funds and reapply. But before the banks investigation was complete, hed withdrawn 
the funds from Ls account.  
As the funds had been utilised, it wasnt possible to reverse the loan  so L couldnt 
now apply for the £50,000 that Mr S was seeking. And as L had benefitted from the 
loan funds, it was fair that the company was responsible for their repayment. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He replied to say, in summary, that:
Bounce Back Loan applications were processed within three working days  but 
HSBC had released the £3,000 loan some 14 days after the disputed application was 
made. And this was subsequent to the genuine application that hed made  hed 
submitted the £50,000 request on 2 June, but the bank had then credited only £3,000 
on 5 June.
Information within the first application contained various discrepancies. This included, 
amongst other things, a different phone number, email address and signature  none 
of which were his. He said this application was fraudulent and HSBC had negligently 
allowed it to proceed, without conducting sufficient checks.
HSBC shouldve frozen Ls account after hed complained about receiving the wrong 
loan amount. When making the first £3,000 withdrawal, the account balance was 
over £8,000  so the funds he utilised were those already belonging to the company. 
The bank shouldve told him at that time to cancel the loan and reapply. 
Mr S said that the banks errors had caused irreparable financial damage to L and had a 
negative impact on his health. To put things right, he still wanted HSBC to provide the 
£50,000 Bounce Back loan that he believed L was entitled to. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Ls complaint earlier this month. While Id reached the 
same conclusion as our investigator in that I didnt think it should be upheld, my reasons 
were slightly different. So I wanted to give both parties the chance to respond with any 
further information or evidence they wanted me to take into account, before I made a final 
decision. I said:
Given the primary aim of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme was to provide businesses 
with quick access to urgent financial support, the application process was more streamlined and subject to fewer checks and requirements than would typically be 
expected for conventional financial products. Of particular relevance here is that the 
entire application was completed online and applicants were required to self-declare 
their eligibility for the loan.
So, as a starting point, lenders were entitled to assess a loan application based on the 
information provided within it by the applicant.
HSBC received an application from L for a Bounce Back Loan of £3,000 on 21 May 
2020. L was an existing customer of the bank and the application form confirmed the 
details of Ls HSBC account, through which the application was being made. So I think 
HSBC correctly proceeded to consider the application. The question is whether it 
shouldve been approved.
Mr S says that he didnt make the application and that HSBC ought to have identified a 
number of discrepancies contained within it, which in turn shouldve led it to decline the 
request. I can see that the contact number and email address provided in the 
application differed from those that the bank held on file. So too does the signature 
that purports to be Mr S. 
I can understand why Mr S thinks these discrepancies ought to have given HSBC 
cause for concern  and warranted either further investigation or simply the decline of 
the application altogether. The significant differences in the signature ought reasonably 
to have led the bank to question whether it had appropriate authority to proceed. And 
the different email address meant that subsequent correspondence  including the 
loan agreement  was being sent to a previously unregistered email address, again 
without appropriate authority from Mr S (Ls sole director).
All of that being said, HSBC may also have felt comfortable in relying on the provision 
of the correct account details. The application included Ls HSBC account details and 
this is where the funds would be paid (and where they were duly drawn down on 5 
June 2020). The significance of this is that even if an application had been received 
from an unauthorised third party, the funds wouldnt be released to them. The funds 
could only ever go to the genuine customer (here, L). So there was no benefit to any 
third party in proceeding with such an attempt  and no risk to either the genuine 
customer or the bank. And should an unauthorised transaction be completed  as 
allegedly occurred here  it would in all likelihood be identified by the genuine 
customer and steps could then be taken to remedy the situation.
That is what happened here. Even if I accept that L didnt authorise the first application 
(and subsequent agreement), Mr S became aware of this on or around 18 June 2020  
and couldve taken steps to remedy the situation. Although he reported his concerns to 
the bank, he then proceeded to utilise the funds before receiving the outcome of its 
investigation and/or a proposed way forward. Ive noted what Mr S says about the 
initial withdrawal of £3,000, which used Ls existing funds. But almost all of the account 
funds were utilised subsequently (and before HSBC had concluded its review)  when 
Mr S wouldve known that the balance included the disputed £3,000 loan.
So even if there was an error on HSBCs part in approving the first application, I dont 
think this caused L any financial loss. The company has had the benefit of the £3,000 
that it purportedly didnt request  so its right that it repays this. 
Ultimately, its not down to the bank that L wasnt able to apply for a higher loan 
amount. If L hadnt utilised the funds, the erroneous agreement couldve been 
cancelled and unwound  enabling the company to make an application for the amount it wanted. But L went ahead and utilised the funds that were in dispute before HSBC 
had concluded its review, which meant this wasnt possible. In any event, I dont think 
that L wouldve been eligible for the £50,000 Bounce Back Loan requested in the 
second application anyway. Amongst other criteria, businesses could borrow up to a 
maximum of 25% of their annual turnover. And for businesses established before 
1 January 2019  as L was  this was based on their turnover during the 2019 
calendar year. Companies House records show that L filed dormant accounts for this 
period.
Looking at everything then, even if I accept that HSBC made an error in approving the 
first Bounce Back Loan application I dont think this has caused L to lose out in any 
way. As a result, Im not intending to require the bank to take any action in response to 
this complaint.
Mr S didnt accept my provisional decision. He said it was unacceptable that HSBC had 
allowed the first application to go proceed without proper checks, which was negligent and 
fraudulent. He said that hed had to use the £3,000 to keep his company going  and that the 
bank had told him the money couldnt have been Bounce Back Loan funds as Ls application 
was still pending. And he didnt think I was able to determine whether L had suffered a 
financial loss, while also highlighting that the issue had a serious impact on him personally.
HSBC accepted what Id said, and didnt respond with any additional comments or evidence 
for me to take into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that set out in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why Mr Ss further comments havent led me to a different view. I should 
reassure Mr S that I have read and considered everything he has said and provided  but 
both my provisional decision and this final decision focus on the matters that I consider most 
relevant to how Ive reached my conclusions, rather than addressing each and every point 
hes made.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I can understand why Mr S thinks HSBC shouldnt 
have allowed the £3,000 application to proceed. I agreed that there was cause for the bank 
to have questioned things. But that alone isnt sufficient grounds for me to uphold the 
complaint and require HSBC to compensate L. Id need to see that the company lost out 
because of any errors on the banks part  and I still dont think it did. 
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, I think the matter couldve been rectified 
had L not utilised the loan that Mr S says he didnt request. Mr S apportions responsibility for 
that to the bank, on the basis that it didnt freeze the funds when he questioned what had 
happened. But I dont think that is reasonable. L utilised the funds in the knowledge that they 
were in dispute. And as L has had the benefit of those funds, its reasonable that it repays 
them.
In order to reach a decision on the complaint, it is part of my role to consider how a 
complainant has lost out as a result of any error by the financial business. I set out in my 
provisional decision why I didnt think L had lost out as a result of any error on HSBCs part. 
Ive taken into account what Mr S has said in response, but his points havent led me to a 
different conclusion. I disagree that Ls eligibility for the £50,000 is not a relevant factor in 
this respect  particularly as it is through being deprived of that loan that Mr S says L lost out. As I dont think L was eligible for that loan, it follows that I dont think it can have lost out 
in the manner that Mr S has described. That HSBC didnt raise any concerns in this regard 
doesnt lead me to see this any differently, particularly as it didnt actually assess the second 
application anyway.
Lastly, Im sorry to read of the distress that Mr S has suffered in dealing with this matter. But 
as the complainant here is L, Im only able to assess the impact that the banks actions had 
on the company and not him personally. And for the reasons given in both this and my 
provisional decision, I dont think L suffered any losses as a result of any errors on HSBCs 
part  so Im not requiring the bank to take any action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman