DRN-2118827
Complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC is holding her liable for a cash machine withdrawal 
from her account that she says she didnt authorise.
Background
Miss M has a bank account with Lloyds. In October 2019, a £500 cash machine withdrawal 
was made from that account. She says this withdrawal wasnt made by her and she didnt 
authorise it. She reported the withdrawal to the police and asked Lloyds to return the 
payment to her account.
Lloyds investigated her complaint and said it wouldnt do so. Evidence suggested that the 
withdrawal was carried out using her card and that cthe PIN was entered correctly first time. 
Miss M hadnt been able to give a persuasive explanation as to how the card couldve fallen 
into the wrong hands or how the security of the PIN couldve been compromised. Lloyds 
accepted it had made a mistake when it failed to record that Miss M told it about a burglary 
at her home a few days before the disputed withdrawal. This wasnt strictly relevant to the 
outcome of the complaint because her card hadnt been stolen. Nonetheless, it paid her £50 
compensation in recognition of this shortcoming.
Miss M was unhappy with this response to her complaint and so she referred it to this 
service. It was considered by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator was 
similarly concerned that there was no explanation as to how Miss Ms card and PIN couldve 
fallen into the hands of a fraudster. The investigator also noted that Miss M had said that the 
withdrawal couldnt have been made by a member of her family because they dont know her 
PIN either.
Miss M was disagreed with the investigators opinion. She argued that she wouldnt have 
reported the loss to the police if she wasnt genuine. She also said that the loss had forced 
her to borrow money from a member of her family to keep up with her rent payments. She 
also mentioned that £500 was a much larger withdrawal than shed normally make from her 
account. Lloyds should therefore have known that this withdrawal was likely fraudulent.
Because Miss M disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to the relevant rules applicable in this area, Lloyds can hold Miss M liable for the 
transaction if its more likely than not that she carried it out or otherwise authorised it.
I should say at the outset I cant know with certainty how this withdrawal was made. Many 
cases come to this service where the evidence is unclear or contradictory. In such 
circumstances, I must reach a decision on the balance of probabilities. Miss M has provided 
us with a consistent description of where her card was kept and what she was doing at the 
time. I dont doubt or disbelieve her when she says she didnt carry out this ATM withdrawal. 
But my conclusions here must be guided by the available evidence and I think that evidence 
suggests that this transaction was carried out by Miss M or another person to whom she 
gave permission.
Lloyds has provided evidence showing that this withdrawal was carried out using Miss Ms 
genuine card and that the chip was read. It also shows that the correct PIN was entered first 
time. The withdrawal was made at 6am  but at around 10:30am, Miss M made contactless 
payments using the same card. Shes told us that these later payments were genuine.
It wouldve been exceptionally difficult for an opportunistic fraudster to have taken her card in 
order to the make the cash machine withdrawal and then returned it before Miss M noticed 
that it was missing. And even if that had happened, it wouldnt explain how that person 
managed to find out Miss Ms PIN. She said it wasnt written down with the card and the last 
time she had to enter her PIN to authorise a payment was a few days earlier. It doesnt seem 
likely that someone couldve observed her entering her PIN and then waited so long for an 
opportunity to make use of that information. 
I also considered whether the withdrawal couldve been made by another member of Miss 
Ms household. But from what shes told us, that seems equally unlikely. She lives with her 
son, but she says that he doesnt know her PIN and so it couldnt have been him that carried 
out the ATM withdrawal. Miss M says that Lloyds shouldve requested CCTV in order to 
clarify exactly who was responsible for the use of the card. Her point is well made, but 
unfortunately such evidence would only show the person that carried out the process of 
making the withdrawal  it wouldnt help answer any questions about whether that person 
had been given permission to do so.
Miss M is right that Lloyds was expected to monitor activity on her account and be on the 
lookout for potential fraud. Its clear from the statements for this account that she tends to 
withdraw smaller sums than this, but I dont think £500 is so large that it shouldve put Lloyds 
on notice that she was at risk of fraud. 
Finally, Miss M told us that she was unhappy with the customer service she received when 
she notified Lloyds of the fraud. She objected to the tone of the staff member she spoke to 
and said they were aggressive. Objectively, I dont think that was the case here. Where a 
business has been asked to investigate an allegation of fraud like this one, it must gather as 
much relevant information as possible. I understand that this can often feel quite 
uncomfortable for the customer, but Im satisfied that wasnt the intention of the Lloyds 
employee here.
Overall, I find it fair and reasonable for Lloyds to hold Miss M liable for the ATM withdrawal 
because the available evidence suggests its more likely than not that she authorised it.
Final Decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman