DRN-2489270
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to carry out his instruction to downgrade his 
fee-bearing packaged bank account (PBA) to a fee-free account. He says that, as a 
consequence, he incurred several hundred pounds in unnecessary fees.
What happened
Mr M says that in, or around, the end of September 2018, he phoned Lloyds and told it to 
change his PBA account into a fee-free account. He says he did this because he had 
another account with a different provider which gave him similar benefits. He says an 
instruction made at the same time, to cancel his mortgage direct debit, was carried out. But 
he discovered in 2020 that he had still been paying the PBA fee. 
Mr M says he asked Lloyds for recordings of all the calls he had made, but it had only been 
able to provide calls he had made to pursue his complaint. Lloyds says it searched its 
systems using the phone numbers it had for Mr M, for the period around when he says he 
made the call, but it has been unable to find a call. 
One of our adjudicators said he didnt have enough evidence to uphold the complaint. Mr M 
didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I have to decide a case on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is the most 
likely thing to have happened. However, I would need reasonable evidence that Lloyds had 
acted wrongly  and I just dont have that. I accept that Mr M is certain that he instructed 
Lloyds to downgrade his account. But it is also possible that he didnt make his instruction 
clear, or misremembered making it at all. Without listening to the call, I wouldnt be able to 
decide what happened. And, since that time, the account fees have been mentioned in 
statements, so its not as though Lloyds has failed in its duty to continue to notify Mr M about 
the charges.  
Without stronger evidence, it wouldnt be fair to say Lloyds acted wrongly in the way Mr M 
believes.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman