Complaint
This complaint is about two regular premium payment protection (PPI) insurance policies. 
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them both 
policies.
They say they werent given a choice about taking out the PPI policies and that they didnt 
want or need them. 
Background
In around  August 2000 Mr and Mrs D took out a joint mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy which protected their mortgage repayments in the event of one or 
both of them becoming unable to work or losing their job. The cost of this policy was around 
£26 per month and could have paid £435 per month in the event of a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs D kept this cover until August 2002 when they changed it to a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) which theyd bought in July 2002. The TMPP was a standalone 
policy which was more expensive  the PPI element cost £32 per month - but offered a wider 
range of benefits. As well as providing mortgage protection like the policy above, the TMPP 
also provided life insurance and critical illness cover.
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage account with BoS was closed completely in February 2004, 
although the TMPP policy continued alongside further mortgage borrowing until 2008.
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld but Mr and Mrs D 
disagreed and its been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs D have told us about the sale which is of course helpful. But 
as with any complaint Ive also borne in mind the possibility that recollections, however 
genuine, are likely to be affected by time. Similarly, not all of the documentation from both 
sales that I would have liked to see is available. Because of this, my decision is based on the 
balance of probabilities  i.e. whats more likely to have happened, based on what Ive seen 
DRN-1578122and what the parties have told me. Ive also used what I know about BoSs procedures and 
how it sold these types of policy. 
Mr and Mrs D told us that they bought both policies in meetings. And BoS has confirmed that 
it made a recommendation that they take out the cover in both instances. That means BoS 
needed to ensure the policies were suitable for their situation. BoS also needed to provide 
enough clear information so Mr and Mrs D could make an informed choice as to whether 
they should buy the policies. 
For the first sale, Ive seen a quotation for the first policy that includes the MPPI. Ive also 
seen that on their mortgage application form Mr and Mrs D signed the section of the form 
dealing with PPI to show that they were interested, alongside wording saying Yes, I would 
like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance. Ive also seen evidence taken 
from BoSs computer system to show that the policy was discussed with Mr and Mrs D at the 
time and that they were asked questions to check that they were eligible for the policy and 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the main policy exclusions. Lastly, Ive also seen a 
copy of the MPPI application form, which contains details about their eligibility and the policy 
benefits, again signed by Mr and Mrs D.
For the second sale, Ive also seen screenshot evidence taken from BoSs computer system 
to show that the policy was discussed with Mr and Mrs D and that they were asked 
questions to check that they were eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by 
any of the main policy exclusions.  Ive also seen a copy of a form headed TMPP reasons 
why product confirmation sheet, signed by Mr and Mrs D and their mortgage adviser, which 
states The applicants have chosen appropriate levels of cover for their new mortgage.
Taken together, this information and evidence is enough for me to me think that Mr and Mrs 
D had made the decision to go ahead and take out each of these policies and that on each 
occasion they had some level of discussion with the BoS representative. In addition, its 
likely that Mr and Mrs D would have had to authorise the monthly premiums to be drawn 
from a bank account by way of a direct debit or similar method. So I think it follows this that 
Mr and Mrs D were most likely given a choice about whether to take out MPPI in each sale.
Next, Ive looked at the question of whether the policies were suitable for Mr and Mrs D. As 
Ive already said, Mr and Mrs D had confirmed they were eligible for the cover on the MPPI 
application form for the first sale. And I havent seen anything to suggest they would have 
been affected by any of the main policy exclusions. For the second sale, Ive commented 
above on the evidence of eligibility and not being affected by exclusions. 
Ive also not seen anything to suggest that the monthly cost of the cover was unaffordable 
for them and I think the monthly premiums - given the type / number of protections each 
policy offered - were comparable with similar products marketed at around the time they 
were sold.
Mr and Mrs D told us about their employer benefits if they werent able to work. Mr D told us 
he would have received 3 months at full pay followed by 3 months at half pay whilst Mrs D 
told us she was entitled to around 6 months pay from her employer. But this doesnt 
necessarily mean the policies werent of use to them. Each of these policies would have paid 
out for up to 24 months in the event of a successful claim. And in the event that one or both 
of them had to make a claim, having the policy would have meant they most probably 
wouldnt have to dig into their existing savings. I think each mortgage would have been a 
significant financial commitment over an extended period. Policies like this are designed to 
offer protection in financially difficult times and they would have provided Mr and Mrs D with 
cover over and above any other protection they had elsewhere. So, given their situation, I think the concept of protecting themselves  with cover like this could be viewed as a 
worthwhile and sensible precaution.
I also think its likely that for each sale they would have been given a policy document which 
explained details of the cover and how to claim. And even if I cant be sure that everything 
happened in the way it should have done, from what Ive seen Mr and Mrs D agreed to take 
out these policies and each of them was suitable to their situation. 
Finally, Id also like to reassure Mr and Mrs Ds that Ive taken into account their response to 
our adjudicators findings and realise how frustrated they must feel. I am sorry to have to 
disappoint them on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. And I dont direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 28July2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman