DRN-1854646
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr and Mrs C say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold the PPI. 
Background 
In 2005, Mrs C says she visited her local Santander branch for a meeting. At this time, she 
took out PPI to cover the repayments on Mr and Mrs Cs existing joint mortgage. The policy 
covered Mrs C only if she was unable to work because of illness or injury. Our adjudicator 
didnt think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagree, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
As this policy was sold many years ago, there is limited information and evidence available 
to help me decide whether the policy was mis-sold. Where there is limited information 
available, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the evidence that is available 
including Santander and Mr and Mrs Cs testimony. 
Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage was taken many years before Mrs C took the PPI so I think she 
wouldve been aware she didnt have to take PPI to get the mortgage. She also appears to 
accept she did agree to take the PPI albeit she feels she was coerced to take it (which I will 
address below). Ive seen a welcome letter she was sent after she took the PPI setting out 
the monthly cost of the PPI and explaining the first three months were free  had she not 
agreed to take the PPI, I wouldve expected her to have questioned this on receipt of that 
letter. Mrs C also only bought the accident and sickness elements of the PPI choosing not to 
purchase the unemployment part of the cover  so she appears to have exercised some 
degree of consideration and choice. 
Weve seen a number of cases for the sale of PPI by Santander around this time. As part of 
its usual process it made clear the PPI was optional, and it would seek a customers consent 
before the PPI was set up. I have no reason to think the process wasnt followed in this case. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely Santander made it clear that PPI was 
optional, and Mrs C agreed to have it knowing she had a choice.  
Mrs Cs main argument is that she feels Santander coerced her to take the PPI. When a 
customer claims they were coerced, forced or pressured to take PPI, Id need persuasive 
evidence to uphold the complaint on this basis as pressure can be subjective. Encouraging a 
customer to consider buying PPI and highlighting the benefits of it isnt enough to amount to undue pressure. In order to uphold a complaint due to pressure, Id need to hear detail as to 
what was said or done which made a consumer feel they are unable to decline cover 
knowing it was optional. I havent heard any specific detail about what Santander said or did 
to put pressure on Mrs C other than encouraging her to take it. 
Overall, whilst I appreciate her strength of feeling regarding this, I havent seen enough to 
make me think Santander put pressure on Mrs C to take the PPI.  
Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs C so it had to check the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, 
she was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mrs C also seems to have had a need for the cover. Mrs C told us 
she had a few months sick pay provided by her employer. But shes also said she had no 
other means available to help her meet her repayments should she have found herself 
unexpectedly out of work due to illness or injury. 
This policy wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay. It also couldve paid out for up to 12 
months if Mrs C was unable to work because illness or injury  so potentially much longer 
than her full sick pay wouldve lasted. So, I still think the PPI couldve been useful for her. 
Its possible the information Santander gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. 
A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment  the consequence of not being able 
to make repayments can be serious. Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Santander didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
 
What the business needs to do
Santander has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should also pay back to Mr and Mrs C any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each payment.*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs 
C any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2020.
Asma Begum
Ombudsman