DRN-4091284
The complaint
Mr M complains Epayments Systems Ltd (Epayments) blocked his account and withheld 
the funds held in it. 
What happened
On 11 February 2020 the regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) placed 
limitations on Epayments. As a result Epayments were not able to process any transactions 
until the limitations were lifted. So, because of this Mr M couldnt access his funds.
The original restrictions were later lifted on 23 February 2022 and Epayments began the 
process of reviewing its customers accounts and refunding them. Unhappy with his funds 
being withheld, Mr M complained. 
Epayments explained it was now taking steps to enable Mr M to access his funds. But this 
would be subject to Mr M passing the checks, and he will be emailed about the next steps in 
due course. Mr M referred his complaint to this service. 
In August 2022, Epayments asked Mr M for information to provide proof of his ownership of 
the funds. In September 2022, Epayments announced it was closing its business and started 
reviewing its customers accounts in line with its legal and regulatory obligations before 
processing any payments.
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. In summary, they found: 
- Epayments isnt currently able to refund the money held in Mr Ms account. So they 
wont be refunding him now. But once the restrictions are removed, Epayments 
should refund Mr M the funds held in his account subject to further checks being 
completed as required by the FCA 
- Epayments is responsible for Mr M not having access to his funds. Thats because its 
accounts were restricted due to weaknesses in its financial crime controls that were 
identified by the FCA
- As Mr M was deprived of his funds, Epayments should compensate him by paying 
8% simple interest on them from when they were first blocked up until settlement
- Epayments should pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
hes suffered
- If any currency conversion fees, or other fees/commissions are charged by 
Epayments, or their banking partner, during the refund process, these should also be 
refunded
Mr M agreed with what our Investigator said. In response, Epayments made alternative 
offers to Mr M which ranged from £500 compensation overall to 1% of the balance. As Mr M 
refused these offers, his complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
As a regulated business, Epayments has certain obligations which it must comply with. 
Epayments is subject to regulation by the FCA. The FCA applied restrictions on Epayments 
for reasons widely publicised and also detailed on its company website. As a result, 
Epayments suspended its operations. This impacted Mr M, given he has had no access to 
his funds from February 2020. 
Whilst the FCA requested Epayments to suspend its activities there was nothing it could 
have done in relation to returning Mr Ms funds during this period. Epayments say it shouldnt 
be held liable for any detriment to Mr M whilst the FCAs limitations were imposed.
After carefully considering this, Im not persuaded its fair or reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint to find Epayments didnt do anything wrong. I say that because Epayments 
had to suspend its operations due to failures on its part. So I think Epayments should put 
things right by addressing the fact Mr M has been deprived of his funds through no fault of 
his own.
From the information Ive seen it doesnt appear as though Mr M has had his funds returned. 
I note Epayments have been asking him for information related to proof of his identity and 
entitlement to the funds. 
As a regulated business, Epayments must comply with extensive legal and regulatory 
obligations. These generally cover the entire period of its customer relationship  from 
application to eventually the end of the relationship. This includes Know Your Customer 
(KYC) checks and/or Customer Due Diligence (CDD). 
So any refund of funds should be subject to these checks. Its worth noting these checks 
include not just the verification of a customers identity, but also establishing the purpose and 
intended nature of the business relationship and origin of funds. 
Epayments may argue there isnt any way of knowing how Mr M would have used his funds 
should he have had access to them. Awarding 8% simple interest when a consumer has 
wrongly been deprived of their funds is in line with the approach at this service. I havent 
seen compelling enough reasons why Mr M shouldnt be awarded compensation in this way, 
so Im satisfied this is fair redress.
Im also satisfied £150 compensation is fair award for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has likely caused Mr M. In reaching this award, Ive considered Mr M has been 
inconvenienced when chasing Epayments for answers, and how having such a substantive 
sum withheld in this way would cause him stress and anxiety. 
When Epayments can release the funds to Mr M, I dont think its fair or reasonable for it, or 
its banking partners, to charge him any conversion or commission fees. So these should not 
be applied.  
Im aware Epayments is going through a winding down process. To be clear, its not my 
intention to interfere with Epayments winding down of its business  thats not the role of our 
service. My role here is ultimately to decide what a fair way to resolve individual complaints 
between businesses and their customers, based on the individual facts of the complaint. Based on the facts of Mr Ms case, Im satisfied its fair for Epayments to redress him as 
detailed above.
Putting things right
Epayments must satisfy its legal and regulatory obligations - which include any KYC or CDD 
checks - before releasing the funds to Mr M. Once its able to do this, Epayments must do 
the following to put things right: 
- Pay 8% simple interest on Mr Ms funds from when it first restricted his access up 
until settlement*
- Not apply any fees or charges when releasing the funds to Mr M  as detailed above. 
If it or its banking partner do apply such charges, they should be refunded 
- Pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused
*If Epayments considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Epayments Systems Ltd must now put things 
right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman