DRN-3122440
The complaint
 Ms R has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted unfairly by 
continuing to apply charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Ms R complained to NatWest about the way she was treated when she contacted it about 
being in financial difficulty whilst receiving treatment for a serious health condition. NatWest 
agreed that the service it provided didnt meet its standards and apologised and 
compensated Ms R £150 as well as sending her flowers.    
Ms R was dis-satisfied with this and referred her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked at this complaint and thought that NatWest should have stopped charging overdraft 
fees from December 2019 as by this point it was clear Ms R was in financial difficulty. 
NatWest made an offer in-line with our adjudicators view. It said that it would refund all 
interest, fees and charges applied to the account from December 2019. NatWest has 
advised that Ms Rs account was closed with a debt of £7,657. The refund due is not enough 
to repay the debt so no interest is repayable. Ms R didnt accept the offer - she feels she 
should be compensated more for its mistreatment of her and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having carefully considered everything, I think that what NatWest has already agreed to
do to put things right for Ms R is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been charged the fees and given the 
credit they shouldnt have. And we may award modest compensation that we think is fair and 
reasonable.
So where a business continues to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should 
have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit 
from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable  in this case 
December 2019. And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest 
per year.
NatWest has told us that Ms R is left with an outstanding debt, once all adjustments have 
been made, and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by her 
overdraft from December 2019. So while Ms R has been left with a balance and she might 
be unhappy with this, NatWest has done what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit when it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Ms R says NatWest havent done enough. But NatWest has already apologised and 
compensated Ms R £150 for inadequate service which I consider fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And Im in agreement with our adjudicator that NatWest shouldve done more 
from December 2019 as from this point it ought to save been apparent that Ms R was in 
financial difficulty  a cursory look at her bank statements showed she hadnt maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time and her income had dropped. 
All the interest, fees and charges NatWest shouldnt have added have been removed from 
what she now needs to pay. So what Ms R is left with to repay are the funds which she used 
and benefitted from and I dont agree that the interest, fees and charges have left her with a 
debt that she wouldnt otherwise have been left with. Indeed this is supported by Ms Rs 
statements at the time which show transactions to parties other than existing creditors. 
In these circumstances, and bearing in mind Ms R spent them, I think its perfectly fair and 
reasonable to expect Ms R to repay these funds. And I dont think that Ms Rs unhappiness 
at having a debt to repay, even after her complaint has been upheld, is in itself a compelling 
reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what NatWest has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Ms R is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Ms R to decide whether she 
wishes to accept NatWests offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Ms R is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman