DRN-2555469
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt agreed to 
either change the dates of their single trip travel insurance policy or refund their premium. 
Reference to URV includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
On 6 March 2020, Mr and Mrs L bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by 
URV. The policy covered a cruise with intended departure and return dates of 2 August 2020 
and 16 August 2020 respectively. Mr and Mrs L paid £143.62 for the travel insurance cover. 
In June 2020, the cruise provider cancelled the cruise due to Covid-19. Mr and Mrs L 
rescheduled the cruise for 2021. Mr and Mrs L contacted URV and asked it to change the 
dates of their travel insurance policy to their 2021 cruise dates. URV said the new dates 
were too far in advance and if they wanted to cancel their policy, it could only offer them a 
50% refund of their premium, in accordance with the terms and conditions of their policy. 
URV later increased its offer to 75% refund of the premium - £107.71. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs L complained to URV and then brought their complaint to our service. 
They want URV to change the dates of the policy to cover their 2021 cruise or a full refund of 
the premium. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. The investigator 
also explained that its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started 
to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the 
contract of insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on                   
6 March 2020 and the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought URVs offer to refund 75% of the premium was fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator and want a refund of all the premium. They 
asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ls insurance policy with URV outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say: 
Cancellation of the policy
[]
What we will do if you ask us to cancel the policy more than 14 days after you have 
paid the premium.
We will consider a partial refund of your premium should you wish to cancel your 
policy outside of the 14-day cooling off period provided you have not travelled or 
claimed, or intend to make a claim, on the policy
For single trip policies - we will refund 50% of the policy premium. If you have also 
paid an additional premium because of an existing medical condition, we will refund 
that portion in full.[]
Im not upholding this complaint because:
I dont think that URV treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly in declining to change the dates 
of the policy to their new cruise dates in 2021. URV says that it doesnt sell policies 
more than a year in advance. So, in June 2020, it wasnt willing to cover                   
Mr and Mrs Ls rearranged trip which was more than a year away. In general terms, 
and as long as they treat customers fairly, insurers can decide how they want to 
conduct their business. Thats not something with which wed ordinarily interfere. 
Based on what Ive seen, in refusing to change the policy dates here, URV treated  
Mr and Mrs L the same as it would treat any other policyholder in the same 
circumstances.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so theres no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a full refund, 
as Mr and Mrs L have requested.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that where cancellation is more 
than 14 days after payment of the premium, and subject to certain conditions, URV  
will consider a partial refund of 50% of the policy premium for single trip policies. So, 
by offering Mr and Mrs L 75% of their premiums back, URV has gone beyond what 
its required to offer under the contract of insurance.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint, including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. Mr and Mrs L were covered from the 6 March 2020 for a number of listed 
events insured under the policy and I dont think theyve been treated unfairly. In the 
circumstances of this case I think URVs offer to refund to Mr and Mrs L 75% of the 
premium they paid is fair and reasonable.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
If Mr and Mrs L wish to take up URVs offer of a refund of 75% of the premium, they should 
contact URV direct.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman