DRN-1625455
 
The complaint
Miss E complains about the work done by esure Insurance Limited when it dealt with a claim 
she made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss E had a problem with her outside drainage. So she made a claim on her home 
insurance policy. Esure accepted the claim and appointed a drainage specialist to put things 
right.
Miss E wasnt happy with the work esures contractors had done. Itd agreed with her that it 
wouldnt need to do excavation works; but itd gone on to do them without letting her know 
otherwise. And Miss E wasnt happy with the finish of the concrete path once the contractors 
had completed the repairs. She felt it was separated, pitted and didnt match the path shed 
had before. She made a complaint to esure.
Esure acknowledged that thered been mistakes in how its contractors had handled the 
claim. It also acknowledged that the finish to the path didnt match what had been there 
before. It told Miss E that it wasnt able to arrange for a supplier to relay the concrete on her 
path. So it said Miss E would need to arrange her own contractor to get the concrete re-laid. 
It offered her £100 towards the costs of getting this done, but said if this wasnt enough; it 
would consider quotes for the work. It also paid Miss E £100 compensation - £50 for the 
service shed had from its contractor and £50 for the inconvenience finding her own builder 
would cause her.
Miss E told esure she was having difficulty finding someone to do the work. She said 
tradespeople werent happy to correct the poor workmanship of esures contractor. So esure 
agreed to pay her a further £50 for the inconvenience this had caused her. Miss E remained 
unhappy with esures handling of her claim, so she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator ultimately upheld Miss Es complaint. Esure reiterated that it simply wasnt 
able to organise a supplier to re-lay Miss Es path, so the investigator agreed it was fair for it 
to ask Miss E to arrange her own tradesperson to get the work done. But he didnt think 
£100 was likely to be enough to get the concrete taken-up and re-laid with composite mix. 
So he didnt think it was enough for esure to say it would consider any costs over and 
above this amount  it felt it should pay the costs of taking up and relaying the concrete.
The investigator also thought arranging a builder would put Miss E to more inconvenience 
trying to put right esures error. So he recommended that esure should pay additional 
compensation of £100 on top of the £150 itd already paid her. 
Esure disagreed. It said Miss E had always needed to get a quotation to get the repairs 
done, so it didnt think this warranted any more compensation. It said itd already paid Miss E 
£100 in lieu of repairs and said it would consider further costs on receipt of a quotation.The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think esure has 
treated Miss E fairly. Ill explain why.
Esure accepted Miss Es claim for drainage issues. It appointed its contractors to carry out 
the repairs. So it was responsible for putting Miss E back in the same position she was in 
before the damage happened.
Ive looked at the photos Miss Es provided. Its clear that the reinstatement of her path 
simply isnt of the same quality or finish to what Miss E had before, or the surrounding 
concrete. The concrete looks pitted. It also doesnt appear to match what Miss E already 
had. So I can understand why shes unhappy with it. And Im also satisfied that esure is 
responsible for putting right the poor workmanship of its contractors.
Generally, where an insurer has started or completed repairs, Id take the view that it was 
responsible for putting right faulty workmanship or mistakes. In this particular case, esure 
has told us it simply doesnt have building companies on its list of preferred suppliers and its 
contractor isnt able to arrange the repair using a composite mix. Thats why its offered to 
pay for the costs of Miss E finding a builder and getting the work done. In these specific 
circumstances, this seems a reasonable response from esure.
But I agree that the £100 esure has already offered Miss E for the cost of getting the 
concrete taken up and re-laid with composite mix seems likely to fall significantly short of 
what the actual cost of the work is likely to be. Given esure cant do the work itself, I dont 
think it should limit what its prepared to pay to what it wouldve cost its own contractor. I 
think once Miss E is able to source a quote for getting the contractors work redone, esure 
shouldnt simply consider the cost, it must pay the cost to her of rectifying its contractors 
mistake. 
I also dont think the £150 compensation esure has already paid Miss E is enough to 
recognise the trouble and inconvenience its handling of her claim has caused her. £50 of this 
amount was to compensate her for its contractors failure to properly communicate with her 
about excavating her path. I accept £100 is to recognise the inconvenience of Miss E 
needing to arrange her own builder. But I dont think this goes far enough. 
Miss E is effectively being asked to pick-up responsibility for esures poor finish to her path 
and to use her own time and effort to put it right. Shell inevitably be put to more 
inconvenience in trying to find a builder whos prepared to do the work and then the resulting 
disturbance when the concrete is dug-up and re-laid. This work wouldnt have been 
necessary but for the poor finish of esures contractors. So I agree with the investigator that 
esure should pay Miss E a further £100 compensation on top of the £150 its already paid.
 
 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Es complaint.I direct esure Insurance Limited to pay the costs Miss E incurs in getting the concrete laid 
down by its contractors re-laid with composite mix. If esure has already paid Miss E £100 
towards this, it can deduct this amount from any settlement paid.
I also direct esure to pay Miss E further compensation of £100.
Esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss E accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
*If esure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss E how much its taken off. It should also give Miss E a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman