DRN-3561634
The complaint
Mr L complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited mis-sold him a 
whole of life policy. 
Mr L is being represented by a Claims Management Company. For ease, I will refer to all 
actions as being those of Mr L.  
What happened
In 1993 Mr L met with an adviser for a firm that Sun Life has since acquired liability for. At 
the time, Mr L was married, with two dependents, earning about £18,900 per year with a net 
disposable income of £150 per month. 
Mr Ls new mortgage was on an interest only basis and he was increasing his borrowing 
from £37,000 to £54,625. He was advised to take out a unit linked endowment plan to top up 
his two existing endowment plans to protect his new mortgage. 
He also took out a Financial Foundations Plan (FFP) which was a unit linked whole of life 
policy. This provided a standalone critical illness benefit of £54,625 for a monthly premium of 
£31 with cover for 22 years. It also provided a sum assured on death of 101% of the fund 
value at the time of death. 
In October 2021 Mr L complained to Sun Life about the sale of the FFP, he said he thought 
the policy was mis-sold because it wasnt suitable for his circumstances. He said a more 
suitable policy wouldve been a term only critical illness policy rather than the whole of life 
policy recommended to protect his interest only mortgage. 
Sun Life didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said the recommended FFP, was the most 
suitable from its own available product range at the time. The plan provided the protection 
required and provided financial security Mr L needed in the event of his death and/ or critical 
illness. 
Our investigator looked into the matter but concluded the policy recommended was 
unsuitable. He was minded agreeing with Mr L that a level term critical illness policy should 
have been recommended and if it wasnt something Sun Life could provide from its own 
product range, it didnt need to make any recommendation at all.
Sun Life disagreed and maintained the recommendation was suitable. So, the matter has 
been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, I consider the complaint should be upheld for similar reasons 
already set out by our investigator. 
Generally, having cover for a substantial debt such as a mortgage in the event of death or 
suffering from a critical illness is a sensible step to take because there is a large financial 
liability to protect. I recognise that Mr L had a need for some sort of protection given he had 
taken out further borrowing, and particularly as he had two dependents at the time. But 
under these circumstances it doesnt strike me as appropriate that the protection was 
provided by way of a unit linked whole of life policy.
Mr L completed a needs assessment with the adviser and from the information I have, it 
doesnt appear that Mr L needed to build up a lump sum or savings. His priority was to take 
out a critical illness benefit to cover his new mortgage which was interest only and had a 
defined term of 22 years.  I think a more suitable option for him would have been to 
recommend a level term critical illness policy. This is because it would have provided him 
with cover for a fixed premium and is usually cheaper as premiums are not invested, and a 
surrender value isnt accumulated. 
Sun Life said in 1993 the FFP was the only plan that offered critical illness cover and the 
term it recommended coincided with Mr Ls mortgage term, I accept this point. However, the 
type of policy it recommended meant that Mr Ls premiums were invested. And this in turn 
meant the premiums were not guaranteed to stay the same throughout the term as it would 
depend on how the overall fund performed and the cost of life cover as well as other 
charges. 
From the outset there was no clear reason as to why Mr L would have required this type of 
policy when there were more suitable ones for him that would have taken into account his 
limited disposable income. Further, I cant see he wanted to build a lump sum or a savings 
pot, and his borrowings were effectively protected by other policies which didnt include 
critical illness cover. 
I appreciate Sun Life has said it recommended the most suitable policy it offered within the 
range of its products it had available at the time. However, that doesnt necessarily mean it 
was the right one for Mr L. It could have recommended that Mr L seek advice elsewhere for 
more suitable cover if it didnt think the cover, it could offer him from its limited range was 
suitable for his wants and needs. Which as I said above, I dont think, on balance, it was. 
So, I dont think the recommendation to invest in the FFP simply because it was the most 
suitable one in its range was a reasonable recommendation to make. And on this basis, Im 
upholding Mr Ls complaint.    
Putting things right
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should:
- Determine what the cost of level term critical illness cover for £54,625 wouldve been 
from September 1993  September 1998 and deduct this from the cost of the whole 
of life policy, less any surrender value already received by Mr L and pay him the 
balance.  
- If Mr L has suffered a loss, in that the alternative cover was cheaper, then Sun Life 
Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should add 8% simple interest on the 
sum owed to Mr L from September 1998 up to the date of settlement.
If Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited considers it is legally obliged to 
deduct income tax from the interest paid, it should issue a tax deduction certificate with 
payment. Mr L may be able to reclaim the tax paid from HM Revenue and Customs if 
applicable.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited should pay 
Mr L the redress as set out above under Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman