DRN-2835497
The complaint
Miss E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed her account and registered a marker at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Miss E says she saw information on social media about a way of making money. She 
contacted the person involved who wouldnt give her his name. She was told to set up a 
cryptocurrency trading account using an app. She received payments of £9,000 to her 
Barclays account and sent them to this trading account. Miss E gave the person she was 
dealing with access to the money. She said she expected to receive a share of the profits 
and was unhappy to be blocked online by the person she was in communication with. She 
says she has been the victim and is now having difficulty getting a bank account elsewhere.
Barclays said it had received a report that the money paid into Miss Es account had been 
obtained fraudulently. She had moved this on and had no evidence to support what she said 
happened. It no longer wanted to offer her an account and said that it had grounds to add 
the CIFAS marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that there was no 
evidence that Miss E had done any trading herself or received any guidance on how to do 
so. She hadnt questioned the source of the money and why she expected to receive 40% of 
any profit made. She willingly provided her information and acted to move the money without 
asking any questions and with the aim of making money. Barclays had a basis to add the 
marker and was entitled to decide to close her account.
Miss E didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that she didnt feel 
that she was an accomplice here. She doesnt know the name of the person she was dealing 
with and so couldnt report this to police. As that person had blocked her access she no 
longer has any of the messages about what happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
I am thinking here about whether Miss E knew or ought to have known that these funds 
werent legitimate. And whether she could have reasonably protected herself from being 
involved. She doesnt have any evidence of the messages she exchanged about this now on 
social media. But based on what she says she didnt know who she was dealing with and the 
name of that person. She hasnt in my view been able to explain why that person, a stranger 
to her, would arrange for her to be given this amount of  money to pass on for investment. 
And why she would share in this trading without her making any contribution or really having 
any knowledge of how money could be made. She also hasnt explained why she needed to 
be involved at all or why the money needed to come through her bank account. And that 
when it did she would pass it on. Ive listened to her call with Barclays about this and I think 
its given her sufficient opportunity to put her explanation forward.
Im afraid I think that Miss E didnt take reasonable steps to establish that this money was 
legitimate. She allowed her bank account to be used to receive and pass on fraudulently 
obtained money with a view to her making money from this. And I find that she ought 
reasonably to have know that this wasnt legitimate and frankly she cant evidence why she 
thought otherwise.
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss E received fraudulent funds 
into her account. So, Ive looked at whether Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on 
the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business 
must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. 
This essentially means that Barclays needs to have enough information to make a formal 
report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable 
grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Es account of events and the evidence Barclays has provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following points:
- Miss E received fraudulent funds into her account. 
- She authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Barclays had grounds to believe that Miss E had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
In the circumstances it made a decision to close her account and I find that it was entitled to 
do so in line with its terms and conditions. I appreciate what Miss E says about the impact 
that the marker is now having on her, but I dont have a reasonable basis to say that 
Barclays should do anything more. I know she will be very disappointed by the outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman