DRN-3264122
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society wont reimburse money he lost when he 
fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Im aware that Ive condensed events in less detail than they were presented. I hope Mr W 
and Nationwide wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive done that. Ours is an informal dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint  
our rules allow me to do that. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. 
Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
In summary, Mr W was convinced by what he thought was a legitimate trading company, 
operating as RB Options. He made two payments using his Nationwide credit card to this 
firm, on the basis that he would be trading in financial instruments such as binary options. 
Unbeknown to Mr W at the time, this was a fictitious trading merchant designed to scam 
people into sending money across  there were in fact no trades being made at all. 
In the end, Mr W lost these two payments to RB Options. Then, later on in 2017, he was 
approached by a firm operating under a different name, Wilkins Finance. Under false 
pretences, Mr W was duped into making three credit card payments to facilitate online 
trades. Again, this turned out to be a scam and there were actually no trades made. So 
overall, Mr W lost a total of five payments: 
Date Merchant Amount
26 May 2015 RB Options £163.02 ($250)
22 June 2015 RB Options £1,006.11 ($1,580)
6 December 2017 Wilkins Finance £241.25 (€250)
12 December 2017 Wilkins Finance £1,340.12 (€1,500)
5 February 2018 Wilkins Finance £2,912.96 (€3,250)
Total £5,663.46
Where Mr Ws money was stolen by these seemingly genuine merchants, he asked 
Nationwide to recover the payments  but this turned out to be unsuccessful. In light of this, 
he brought a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered everything and 
thought that Nationwide should refund part of the payments; those being, the two payments 
made to RB Options. Mr W accepts this  but Nationwide does not agree. 
Because Nationwide is not in agreement, the matter has been escalated to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that it should be upheld in part. Ill explain why.
relevant considerations
Not every complaint referred to us about investing in binary options, or CFDs is in fact a 
scam. Some complaints simply involve high-risk investment bets on the performance of a 
share price, or commodity that has resulted in disappointing returns or substantial losses. 
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud  but they are not expected to guard against 
poor investment choices or give investment advice, when executing customer payments.
Here, its common ground that Mr W was the victim of a fraudulent scheme perpetrated by 
RB Options and then also by Wilkins Finance. Where this has been accepted by both 
parties, I do not see the need to further question whether this was a scam. 
Accordingly, when determining this complaint, Im left to consider:
1. Whether Nationwide has fairly dealt with Mr Ws claims to recover the money lost;
2. If Nationwides transaction monitoring systems ought to have triggered an 
intervention for any of these disputed payments on the grounds of suspected fraud;
3. And if it these fraud alerts ought to have triggered, whether any intervention from 
Nationwide wouldve prevented Mr Ws loss;
4. Finally, was Mr W in any way partly to blame for what happened such that any 
compensation should be reduced to reflect that?
recovery
Mr W made all of these payments using his Nationwide credit card. So, when he raised this 
matter with Nationwide, there were potentially two means of recovering the payments lost; 
whats known as a chargeback and, separately, a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA). 
Ill go on to explain why I dont find it necessary to focus on the payments made to RB 
Options via these two methods of recourse. Therefore, Ive first concentrated on whether 
Nationwide took appropriate recovery action for the money lost to Wilkins Financial. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by VISA where it ultimately arbitrates disputes 
between merchants and customers. There are scheme rules which apply which, put simply, 
mean there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. One of which, is the 
requirement to raise a claim within a set time. Ultimately, Mr W raised this dispute once the 
relevant timescales had already expired. Nationwide therefore didnt attempt to chargeback 
the transactions to Wilkins Financial. And, having reviewed the scheme rules, I do not find 
this unreasonable  as its fair to say that Mr W did not have a valid claim. 
Likewise, under these circumstances, Im satisfied that the requisite conditions were not met 
for a Section 75 claim to succeed for these three payments to Wilkins Finance. There are 
certain requirements for a claim to be valid according to the CCA, and I cant safely conclude 
that Mr W was able to provide the necessary evidence for a claim to be successful. It follows 
that I do not find that Nationwide acted unfairly by not recovering these payments by either 
means of chargeback, or Section 75. 
intervention
Nationwide is aware of our position on PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. There are many published 
decisions on our website setting out these principles, relevant rules and regulations. I 
therefore dont consider it necessary to set them out again here. Suffice to say, taking these into account, Nationwide ought to have been monitoring 
accounts to counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions, or 
other indicators, that its customers were at risk of fraud. And in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments, or declined them altogether, to protect its 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud. In line with this, Ive thought about 
whether Nationwide shouldve stepped in before these transactions were let go. 
Turning first to the two payments made to RB Options in 2015. As long ago as June 2012, 
the then regulator, indicated  in its consultation paper Banks Defence Against Investment 
Fraud; detecting perpetrators and protecting victims  that it was good industry practice for 
firms to put together an updated watch-list of types of scams and potential scammers. Whilst 
the regulator didnt give any indication of when those watchlists ought to be updated, its not 
unreasonable to expect an international society, like Nationwide, to update those lists, and 
communicate with staff, within a month of a warning being published by the FCA or IOSCO 
(the International Organisation of Securities Commission). 
Such an alert should automatically trigger its fraud prevention systems and lead to payments 
being paused, pending further intervention  such as making enquiries of the customer 
about the payment or giving a scam warning. Here, there was a warning about RB Options 
published on the IOSCO alert portal as early as January 2014. This was of course at least 
14 months before Mr W made his first payment to RB Options. Furthermore, from the 
IOSCO website, this warning specifically referred to binary-options and made it clear that 
extreme causation should be taken with RB Options. The warning message also stated 
that RB Options was known to be an unregistered online trading platform. 
I consider any watch-list should reasonably include parties who are carrying out activities 
without being registered/regulated to do so. Given the timing of the warning and when the 
first payment was made to RB Options on 26 May 2015, Nationwide ought to have 
automatically blocked it, and the following payment to RB Options taken from Mr Ws 
account. By then, Nationwide had had ample time to update and communicate its watch-list 
and, accordingly, it should have asked Mr W appropriate probing questions before 
processing the payments.
Besides, Nationwide didnt need to know for certain whether Mr W was dealing with a 
fraudulent binary options trader or investing in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) 
product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a banks obligations under 
the various regulations and principles of good practice. Overall, I am satisfied Nationwide 
ought to have intervened with this first payment to RB Options.  
Conversely, I am not convinced that Nationwide shouldve made an intervention with any of 
the subsequent transactions to Wilkins Financial. So as far as I am reasonably aware, at the 
time of these three payments in late 2017/early 2018 there was no such cautionary notice 
available. Unlike RB Options, Im not compelled to believe that there was sufficient warning 
or information available in the public domain that ought reasonably to have alerted 
Nationwide that these credit card payments were likely given rise to a scam. With that in 
mind, I dont think that Nationwide shouldve automatically blocked them on account of its 
watchlists being triggered. 
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
That said, in accordance with Payment Services Regulations (PSRs), alongside established 
good practice, Nationwide has a responsibility to monitor accounts and payments made to 
(amongst other things) prevent fraud and scams. Aside from maintaining the sort of 
watchlists Ive already mentioned, Nationwide should have systems in place to identify 
unusual transactions or other signs that might indicate its customers are at risk of fraud. These commonly include ways to spot payment instructions that are particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic compared to how a consumer typically operates their account. With this in 
mind, Ive considered whether the payments to Wilkins Financial should have given 
Nationwide sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud to warrant an intervention. 
When doing so, Ive borne in mind that the fundamental purpose of a credit card is to 
facilitate purchases. Most consumers tend to shop around, which means that noticing an out 
of character payment amongst a host of new beneficiaries (or payees) is not 
straightforward. This rings true with Mr Ws credit card; its not in question that he made 
purchases frequently. Indeed, looking at his statements leading up to and including 2017, 
there were a number of payments made to new payees (including those abroad) for varying 
amounts. To that end, I cant accept that these particular account movements represented a 
sudden change in the way Mr W was using his card  he often made a series of card 
purchases, to different online merchants.    
When considered against this backdrop, I dont find that these three payments to Wilkins 
Financial were for large enough sums to have attracted suspicion. Its also important to 
respect that the PSRs are not only designed to protect consumers  but also to ensure that 
banks provide services without undue delay. So, there is a balance to be struck between 
bankers identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent, and minimising disruption 
to legitimate payments. 
Whats more, if Nationwide were expected to intervene for every payment of a similar 
amount, I have to respect that it would risk grinding the banking/payment system to a halt. 
So, all in all, I am not satisfied that the Nationwide could reasonably have been expected to 
have taken further steps to contact Mr W before these particular payments were let go. 
causation
Having concluded that Nationwide ought to have questioned Mr W about some of the 
payments in question here (i.e. the ones to RB Options), next I need to determine what 
difference (if any) such an intervention wouldve made. So, would the loss being claimed for 
have occurred but for Nationwide taking appropriate action? This can otherwise be referred 
to as causation.
Thinking about this carefully, Ive come to the conclusion that, had Nationwide carried out its 
due diligence and duties and asked Mr W about the initial payment to RB Options, Ive no 
compelling reason to doubt that he would have explained what he was doing. And whilst I 
accept it had no duty to protect Mr W from a poor investment choice, or give investment 
advice, Nationwide could have provided information about the steps a customer can take to 
ensure, as far as is reasonably possible, that they are dealing with a legitimate person. Such 
as, checking the recognised domestic and international watchlists, like the one provided by 
IOSCO. 
On the evidence, if Nationwide had intervened, Im satisfied Mr W would have looked into 
the investment opportunity further and discovered more information about this type of 
investment, how high-risk it was and whether the trader was registered here or abroad. 
Indeed, its likely he would have come across the warning published by the IOSCO himself 
and that would have been enough to give him second thoughts such that he wouldnt have 
traded at all. It follows that I find that Nationwide ought to have intervened at the first 
payment to RB Options in May 2015. Had it done so, Im persuaded that Mr W would likely not have made what he thought was 
the first trade and so prevented his overall losses to this firm (i.e. the second transaction 
made to RB Options on 22 June 2015). Hence, why I dont deem it necessary to comment 
on whether Nationwide shouldve recovered both these payments  instead, I think they 
ought reasonably to have counteracted them from being made in the first place. 
Where I judge that Nationwide should not have made an intervention for the Wilkins Finance 
transactions, I do not need to determine whether such action wouldve made a difference. 
Even so, Ive considered whether the prevention of the earlier payments in 2015 to RB 
Options wouldve naturally averted the subsequent loss Mr W incurred, i.e. had Nationwide 
stopped the first set of payments, would this have saved Mr W from being scammed by the 
so-called Wilkins Financial. 
I accept that Mr W may have just written off his losses with RB Options as a poor investment 
choice and therefore not foreseen the risk of being scammed by trading with Wilkins 
Finance. This would explain why he decided to invest with this firm and did not draw the 
connection between being scammed before by a similar trading scheme.
In any event, it is not enough that a respondent failed to act fairly or reasonably; its wrongful 
acts or omissions must be the proximate (so the dominant and effective) cause of losses of a 
type that were reasonably foreseeable to the wrongdoer at the time of the breach. So, in this 
case, I would need to be satisfied that the losses Mr W suffered because of Wilkins Financial 
in 2017/2018 were reasonably foreseeable to Nationwide in 2015. 
Its my view that it would be unfair to find that they were. As I see it, preventing Mr W from 
falling victim to a scam does not necessarily mean Nationwide could be expected to 
anticipate that this would mean hed also not suffer a loss to fraudsters some eighteen 
months later. There are too many intervening factors (such as Mr W himself identifying that 
he had lost out before, for example) that mean the relationship between cause and effect is 
not satisfied in my opinion. I cant safely say Nationwides failures were the dominant and 
effective cause of Mr W losing this money to Wilkins Financial. Consequently, I am not 
holding Nationwide liable for these later payments. 
contributory negligence
The concept of contributory negligence is an important consideration in a dispute of this 
nature, whereby an award of compensation is being asked of a respondent such as 
Nationwide. In fairness, I must consider whether Mr Ws actions (or inactions) has 
contributed towards his losses  he may have exhibited contributory negligence and should 
be held responsible as well as Nationwide (to an extent) for those losses.
In terms of the earlier payments to RB Options, I have thought about whether Mr W should 
bear some responsibility for the situation in which he found himself. But at the time of making 
these 2015 payments, Im satisfied he was drawn into what seemed to be genuine trades by 
someone purporting to be a genuine trader. 
Its not in question that this was a sophisticated scam where RB Options had spent time 
gaining Mr Ws trust in order to defraud him of his money. And Mr W has provided copies of 
some of the documentation he was sent to reinforce that this was a legitimate investment 
venture. All of the circumstances manufactured by RB Options made everything appear 
genuine to him.So, I dont think Mr W was blameworthy for being taken in by this scam, and I am satisfied 
that he simply did not foresee the type of loss that was unfolding in 2015  he just didnt 
realise what was happening. All in all, I havent seen anything in what Mr W has described 
that would lead me to conclude he ought to have been on notice that he might be being 
scammed such that I think it would be fair to reduce any compensation accordingly.
Finally, where Ive decided that Nationwide do not need to return the payments to Wilkins 
Financial, its not necessary for me to consider whether any deduction should be made.
Putting things right
In light of my findings, I find it fair and reasonable that Nationwide refund the two payments 
Mr W made to RB Options. Where this was a credit card account, Nationwide should 
reconstruct the account from the respective dates of loss to the date of refund, refunding any 
interest that mightve been charged as a result of the two payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint and require Nationwide Building 
Society to: 
Refund the two payments Mr W made to RB Options in 2015; and;
Rework Mr Ws credit card account so that all interest and charges caused by these 
two payments are refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman