DRN-4404517
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs K have complained about how Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd 
(Accredited) dealt with a claim under a home insurance policy.
As Mrs K dealt with the claim and complaint, I will normally only refer to her.
What happened
Mrs K contacted Accredited following a fire in her home. Accredited accepted the claim. Mrs 
K later complained about the delays in progressing the claim, issues with settling it and poor 
communication.
Accredited didnt reply to the complaint. Mrs K complained to this service. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. She said Mrs K kept having to chase for updates, there were also 
delays in settling the claim and issues with a contractor. She said Accredited should pay 
interest on the settlement amount and £300 compensation.
As Accredited didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 18 September 2023. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Looking at the records for the claim, Mrs K had to chase throughout the claim for it to 
progress. At the start of the claim, she phoned and sent messages through Accrediteds 
portal on multiple occasions to find out whether she and her family could move to alternative 
accommodation and asking Accredited for confirmation of how much it would pay for the 
accommodation. Although Accredited replied, these seemed to be more general messages 
about the claim. It didnt respond for several days to Mrs Ks urgent requests for clarity on 
accommodation, despite her explaining that she couldnt live in her home due to the level of 
damage.
Mrs K also sent multiple messages through the portal about the contents claim. At one point, 
Mrs K was told her file handler was absent and that he would deal with it on his return. Mrs K 
was still chasing for a settlement weeks later. Accredited also asked if its contractor had PAT 
tested the appliances. When Mrs K confirmed the contractor hadnt done this, Accredited 
said this should have happened. From what Ive seen, this was down to poor communication 
between Accredited and its contractor and delayed the contents claim settlement. Mrs K also 
kept asking when the contents claim would be finalised as there were a lot of items in her 
home that needed to be disposed of, but this couldnt happen until the settlement was 
agreed. Accredited later removed the damaged items, but Mrs K then had to chase for the 
settlement for the items. Mrs K said this left her and her family without key items such as a 
washing machine or anything to sit on. Im aware Accredited made an interim payment of 
£2,000 before it made the full contents settlement payment.
An asbestos survey was also completed at the property. Mrs K had to chase for the 
asbestos survey results and for the scope of works. When Mrs K received the scope of 
works, she found that a number of items were missing. The scope of works then had to be 
revised to include these items.
So, I think there were a range of issues that delayed the claim settlement. Im aware 
Accredited has said it was dealing with a surge in claims at the time. It said it was a complex 
claim and the claim had been settled within a reasonable time. I think there were a number 
of avoidable delays during this claim and that these impacted on the timing of the settlement. 
Mrs K chased multiple times for the contents claim to be progressed. She was told her file 
handler was absent and that she would have to wait for his return. The contents was then 
removed from Mrs Ks home, but she wasnt offered a settlement and had to chase for this. I 
think Accredited could have settled the contents claim earlier than it did and that Mrs K lost 
use of the money for a period of time because of the delays. 
So, I currently intend to say that Accredited should pay interest on the contents settlement 
from 18 February 2023 to the dates on which the interim payment was made and the full 
contents settlement was paid, respectively. Im aware that enquiries continued after this date 
about the contents claim, but had the claim progressed more promptly overall, it could have 
been settled earlier. By this date, Mrs K had been told her file handler was absent and would 
need to progress the claim on his return. He still seemed to be absent on this date, but 
someone seemed to take some action on the claim, although Mrs K still had to continue 
chasing.
For the buildings part of the claim, I currently think Accredited needs to pay interest on this 
element of the settlement from 7 March 2023 to the date on which the cash settlement was 
paid. On this date, Accredited appointed a contractor to fit the windows and doors. Mrs K 
had to remind Accredited that it was a cash settlement. These items were then missed off 
the settlement figure. On this date, Accredited also said it thought the costings for the 
kitchen units need to be verified for overall accuracy. It then said another surveyor would 
need to visit. Although, I think it is acceptable for an insurer to verify costs, Accredited 
seemed uncertain whether it could rely on what had been already identified. So, I think this 
delayed the overall claim settlement. 
Im aware Accredited would always have needed some time to assess the damage and 
decide the settlement. I also cant say what date the settlement would have been paid had 
the claim progressed without delay. For both of these dates, Ive based them on what I think 
is fair and reasonable having reviewed everything that happened.
Ive also thought about compensation. Mrs K had to chase several times about the 
alternative accommodation at what was already a difficult time and while she was living in 
her fire damaged home. She also had to contact Accredited on many occasions over a four-
month period to keep her claim moving. I think this caused Mrs K distress and inconvenience 
beyond what I would normally expect with this type of claim and over a prolonged period. 
The contents was also removed, but Mrs K was left for a time with no money to replace the 
items. In my view, this meant she was caused further inconvenience, in addition to the 
financial loss itself. Mrs K was also concerned that contractors carried out work in her home 
and when they left for the day, her home was left unlocked. The contractor also used her 
bathroom without permission. As a result, I currently intend to say Accredited should pay Mr 
K and Mrs K a total of £450 compensation because of the impact on them of how the claim 
was handled.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 16 October 2023.
Mr K and Mrs K said they had nothing further to add.Accredited agreed with paying interest on the settlement amounts. However, it said the 
amount of compensation was too high.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive looked again at the level of compensation, as Im 
aware Accredited has said compensation of up to £300 would be more appropriate.
When I decided the amount of compensation, I took into account the amount of 
compensation we would normally award in a range of scenarios, as described in our 
published guidance on this. At the start of the claim, I think Mr K and Mrs K were caused 
immediate concern by Accrediteds lack of response on alternative accommodation, despite 
Mrs K explaining she couldnt continue to live in her home due to the level of damage. There 
were then a series of issues over a period of months to try and bring the claim to a 
conclusion, which seemed to require Mrs K to regularly chase for progress. Later in the 
claim, Mrs K and her family were also left without furniture for a period of time, including 
anything to sit on, and contractors left her home unlocked. So, I think Mr K and Mrs K were 
caused a range of concerns and inconvenience on multiple occasions and over a prolonged 
period of time. As a result, I remain on the view that £450 is an appropriate level of 
compensation.
Putting things right
Accredited should pay 8% simple interest on the settlement amounts and £450 
compensation.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is decision 
that this complaint is upheld. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to:
Pay 8% simple interest on the contents claim settlement from 18 February 2023 to the 
date on which the interim payment was made and the remainder of the contents claim 
was paid, respectively.
Pay 8% simple interest on the buildings claim from 7 March 2023 to the date on which 
the buildings part of the claim was settled.
Pay £450 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman