DRN-2228073
The complaint
Mr J complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. Where it is a complaint about a claim 
under an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint against the insurance company that 
was responsible for dealing with that claim.
In our final decision we name that insurance company, but we dont name or identify any 
other party.
Mr J had a car that had first been registered in 2012. For the year from April 2019, he had a 
motor insurance policy branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. 
Skyfire was the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with claims. Where I 
refer to Skyfire, I include the intermediary and others insofar as I hold Skyfire responsible for 
their actions.
Unfortunately, Mr Js car was involved in a road traffic accident on the morning of Monday 10 
February 2020. He later complained to Skyfire about how it handled his claim. In particular 
Mr J complained that hed had to take four days as annual holiday from work because he 
didnt get a courtesy car until the afternoon of Thursday 13 February. 
On about 5 March Skyfire said Mr Js car wasnt repairable and he had to give back the 
courtesy car. Mr J hired a car from 6 March for a holiday.
By about 18 March Skyfire had sent Mr J a cheque for £75.00 compensation.
Skyfire upheld his complaint and  by a final response dated 2 April 2020  said it would 
reimburse £319.27 for the car hire and pay £150.00 compensation for trouble and upset. 
Unhappy with that, Mr J brought his complaint to us later in April 2020.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Skyfire had done enough.
Mr J disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
Public transport from his home to workplace is simply unfeasible.
Skyfire told him he would get a courtesy car the same day or the next day.
He asked for any automatic car that was available.
Skyfire told him that it could provide automatic vehicles for people who - like him - 
hadnt driven manual cars for a long time. 
He wasnt confident with re-learning manual driving after just being involved in a 
collision.
He had to repeat his request for an automatic car.
Skyfire and its repairer gave conflicting information about getting an automatic car.
He and his manager exhausted all options before deciding Mr J should take annual 
leave.
He values his annual leave very highly. Skyfire hasnt paid compensation for his lost 
four days.
The four days that it took was a long, stressful and expensive delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms said that Mr J would get a courtesy car. But that was while his car was 
being repaired by a Skyfire approved repairer. He wouldnt get a courtesy car if his was 
beyond repair. 
And the policy terms didnt promise that a courtesy car would be available with an automatic 
transmission.
Skyfire didnt communicate with Mr J as clearly as it shouldve. And I have no reason to 
doubt Mr Js statement that he took annual leave from work. 
But I cant say that Skyfire had to provide an automatic courtesy car. So I cant say that 
Skyfires delay in doing so was unfair or that this caused Mr Js loss of annual leave. In any 
event, Mr J hasnt given enough details of his employment terms.
Mr J got an automatic courtesy car on 13 February 2020. He still had it on 4 March 2020 
when Skyfires repairer discovered more damage and Skyfire decided his car was damaged 
beyond economic repair. 
Mr J lost the use of the courtesy car at very short notice. And Mr J was due to go on holiday 
on 6 March 2020 for three nights. He arranged a hire car. In the end, he had it from 6 to 14 
March at a cost of £319.27.
Skyfire agreed to refund his cost of that. I consider that this was beyond what the policy 
covered. 
I accept that the claim took about five weeks. And the situation had been stressful for Mr J. 
But some of that was the inevitable consequence of the accident and the need to pursue an 
insurance claim.
Skyfire also agreed and to pay Mr J a further £150.00 compensation. Overall, I find that Skyfire didnt communicate with Mr J as well as it shouldve, and this 
caused him some distress and inconvenience. But Im satisfied that  by the time of its final 
response  Skyfire had done enough to compensate Mr J. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to uphold his complaint to us or to direct Skyfire to do any more in response to 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Skyfire Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman