DRN-3619285
The complaint
Mr W complains that Facet Investment Management Ltd (Facet) changed the way his 
pension was invested, leading him to be exposed to a higher level of risk than he was happy 
with. 
What happened
Mr W had had a longstanding relationship with Mr W, specifically relating to his pensions 
which were managed within their discretionary mandate. 
In December 2015, Facet recommended to Mr W that he transfer his Aviva personal pension 
to a SIPP, also with Aviva. In addition to Mr W maximising his pension contributions, the 
purpose of this was to reduce charges, increase flexibility and increase investment choices.  
His attitude to risk at that time was confirmed to be Cautious to Moderate (two on a scale of 
one to five) for this investment. The suitability report provided did not outline how the transfer 
met these objectives or provide a comparison of charges, however a standalone document 
provided by the business states that the charges reduced from approximately 2.4% to 
1.8%pa (including the 1.1% ongoing advice charge). The fund was to be invested via a 
model portfolio under a Discretionary Portfolio Management agreement. 
The suitability report does not outline the investments to be included however the application 
form indicates that it would be the Model 2 portfolio which invested in a range of mainstream 
investments in line with Mr Ws attitude to risk. 
In November 2016, Facet wrote to Mr W explaining that they had launched their own funds, 
and it was proposed that his investment would be transferred to one of these. It is unclear 
what had instigated this change of approach. The letter stated that, very little will change 
other than access to institutional, rather than retail, class investments and the mechanics in 
which we update our investment models.  It stated that they would be waiving their DFM fee 
for any holdings within the funds as the fund itself would pay their fees. The advantages 
were stated to be that it would be more cost efficient in terms of overall charges, with better 
potential returns and easier access to performance statistics and comparisons.  It stated that 
if Mr W did not wish the fund to be moved that he should contact them.  It is noted that this 
letter did not outline the cost of the proposed new investment nor give an indication of the 
fund Mr W would be invested in or the types of holdings within the fund.
A statement from Aviva shows that on 19 December 2016 the fund was invested into the 
Elite CAM Balanced Discretionary Portfolio B Account (approximately £135,000, 23%) and 
the Elite CAM Cautious Discretionary Portfolio B Account (approximately £440,000, 75%). 
The remining £12,000 was in cash.  These funds were later renamed as the EF FACET 
Cautious Discretionary Portfolio Fund and the EF FACET Balanced Discretionary Portfolio 
Fund. 
In June 2018 Mr W commenced taking an income from his Aviva SIPP which he reduced in 
2019 when he started to receive other pension income.
In October 2019, an investment held in each of the portfolios (the Carpe Valorem fund) was 
suspended and ultimately defaulted, resulting in a significant reduction in the value of Mr Ws 
funds. Mr W transferred his investments with the help of another adviser, and complained to 
Facet about the level of risk associated with the recommendation.
Facet stated that the portfolios recommended were in line with the level of risk Mr W had 
always been willing to take and that he had always been invested under their discretionary 
mandate. So, Mr W referred his complaint to this service.
The Investigator found that Facet had acted unfairly by switching Mr Ws pension funds into 
its own portfolios as this had resulted in higher charges. The Investigator also thought Facet 
had invested Mr Ws pension in funds that carried a higher level of risk than he was happy to 
take. Facet did not agree with this and thus the complaint has been referred to me for final 
decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the Investigators view that Facet acted unreasonably, so I uphold the complaint. 
Mr W states that he accepted Facets advice without understanding the changes in risk 
resulting from the change of investment approach.
Having reviewed the file I cannot find anything to indicate that Mr W should have been aware 
of or understood the changes to his investment in November 2016. He was issued with a 
letter advising him of the fact that Facet had launched their own funds, however this did not 
outline the implications of the change from a risk or charges perspective. Mr W had had a 
lengthy relationship with Facet and as such had come to trust their advice and the 
discretionary nature of this. His previous investments prior to the launching of Facets funds 
had been mainstream regulated investments and there is no indication that Mr W was made 
aware that the new fund would include investments of non-standard nature which could 
include an element of illiquidity.
In their complaint response to Mr W, Facet stated that the issues with the value of the EF 
FACET Cautious and Balanced discretionary portfolio funds began in October 2019 when an 
investment was unable to pay its coupon and subsequently defaulted. The response states 
that the Carpe Velorum investment was a secured bond with a history of paying its coupon 
on time and was therefore an appropriate investment for both the Cautious and Balanced 
portfolios at the time of investment. But I cannot find evidence to support this statement. The 
factsheet provided (dated 8th June 2016) indicates that the investment was a five year bond 
secured on a portfolio of Non Performing US Home Loans finishing in 2021. The fact sheet 
further states that the issuer was a newly formed entity and had no trading or significant 
operating history. 
Whilst it is true that there is nothing preventing a discretionary managed model portfolio or 
fund utilising investments such as these, it would be anticipated that they would be in very 
small amounts due to the level of risk involved, particularly as it was an overseas investment 
and therefore included an element of currency risk.
I have considered whether it is reasonable for an investor such as Mr W to have such 
investments as part of his portfolio. It is noted that the Aviva pension was invested in the 
Facet Cautious discretionary portfolio fund (23%) and the Balanced discretionary portfolio 
fund (75%) which both invested in excess of 7% respectively in the Carpe Velorum investment. It is noted that another key holding in the portfolio also invested in the Carpe 
Velorum fund.
In his initial view, the investigator referred to the FCAs views on unregulated or high risk 
investments, and their view that they should only be used in extremely small proportions as 
part of a clients investments. I am in agreement with this statement. Whilst Facet had 
indicated that the use of the Carpe Velorum fund was considered appropriate as part of the 
overall construction of the fund, I have considered whether a cautious or cautious to 
moderate investor would expect to have this type of investment at the level found within the 
Facet Cautious discretionary portfolio fund. And I dont think this would be considered 
appropriate for Mr W, particularly in view of the liquidity risks and the fact he was 
approaching retirement.
In any event, even if I were to accept that the overall risk posed by the portfolios was 
suitable for Mr W, I dont think that the switch to these funds was suitable for Mr W because 
of the increased charges they posed to him.
In the suitability report provided to Mr W following the advice given in 2015, his objectives 
were outlined. The top objective was to reduce charges. The report did not outline the 
charges of either the existing pension, or the new recommended solution, it merely 
signposted the Key Features Document, which it stated included the products charges.  The 
report stated that the recommendation had been made, particularly with regards to the 
product aims, charges and commitment it entails. Although the report stated that the 
recommendation had been made in order to meet the clients objectives, it did not outline 
how this was being achieved. 
In November 2016, as stated above, Facet sent a letter to Mr W informing him of the change 
of investment strategy. It stated that one of the advantages to Mr W would be lower charges, 
although it did not provide an indication of what the investment charges would be, or how 
they compared to the existing funds.
The fund fact sheets for the Elite Cam Cautious Discretionary Portfolio and the Elite CAM 
Discretionary Portfolio on file shows the Total Expense Ratio (TER) to be 2.05% and 2.19% 
respectively. This is noted to include a 0.75% AMC, however this is stated to include a 
0.75% rebate. The half yearly statement dated January 2017 showed the charges as 2.31% 
for the cautious portfolio and 2.57% for the balanced portfolio. These charges are higher 
than the original investment transferred from in 2015, and significantly higher than the 
investment recommended in December 2015 when taking into account the addition of the 
ongoing advice. 
I have considered whether it was beneficial to Mr W to incur these additional costs and am 
not persuaded that it was. There is nothing to indicate that his objectives had changed since 
December 2015, or that he was unhappy with the investment held. Facet have not provided 
any real advantages to the additional cost, in fact they have misrepresented the position in 
relation to the charges by suggesting that the recommendation met his objectives, one of 
which was to reduce costs. The information sent to Mr W in 2016 when the funds were 
changed did not outline the charges or the investment, the fact the charges were higher than 
the existing investment or any sort of comparison. And I believe that if Mr W had been aware 
of the increase in charges, that he would not have agreed to go ahead with the switch to the 
new investments. 
For the reasons stated above I agree with the investigators view that the advice to switch to 
Facets own portfolios was not suitable for Mr W. So Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr W should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr W would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Facet do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Facet must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Facet should add interest as set out below:
Facet should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Facet is unable to pay the total amount into Mr W's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr W wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr W would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay Mr W £750 for the considerable distress, upset and worry caused to him by the 
significant fall in value of his investment over a sustained period of time, which  
forced Mr W to alter his pension planning and seek alternative financial advice from 
another business.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Facet deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Facet should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year from 
final decision 
to settlement 
(if not settled 
within 28 
days of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant'
s 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an 
asset is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Facet should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Facet pays should be included in the 
actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Facet is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculating the actual value. Facet may require that Mr W provides an 
undertaking to pay Facet any amount he may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. 
That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing 
the receipt from the pension plan. Facet will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Facet should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
if Facet totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:Mr W wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr W's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr W into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
W would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr W could have obtained from investments 
suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring 
a financial business to pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs 
that I consider appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may 
recommend the business to pay the balance.
Facet Investment Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mr W in a 
clear, simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Facet Investment Management 
Ltd should pay Mr W the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of 
£160,000 (including distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on 
the amount set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Facet Investment Management Ltd pays Mr W the 
balance plus any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Facet 
Investment Management Ltd. It is unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept this decision.
If Facet Investment Management Ltd does not pay the recommended amount, then any 
portfolio currently illiquid should be retained by Mr W. This is until any future benefit that 
he may receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Facet 
Investment Management Ltd (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation 
as set out above.
Facet Investment Management Ltd may request an undertaking from Mr W that either he 
repays to Facet Investment Management Ltd any amount Mr W may receive from the portfolio thereafter or if possible, transfers the portfolio to Facet at that point.
Mr W should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he 
may have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Joanne Molloy
Ombudsman