DRN-3321977
The complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) have failed to refund £30,000 he says 
he lost as part of a scam.
The details of this complaint are well known, so I will not repeat everything again here. 
Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in March 2022. I said I was minded not to 
uphold it, as I didnt think Santander had done anything substantially wrong by failing to 
intervene in the payments he made, and neither did I think they ought to have done anything 
further with his chargeback claim. I set out the following reasons:
The company Mr H paid  Infinox Capital  is a legitimate company trading from the 
Bahamas and regulated by the Securities Commission of the Bahamas. No adverse 
information about this company had been published by either the International 
Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) or the Financial Conduct 
Authority, so Im not persuaded that the merchant can be described as fraudulent.
I appreciate that Mr H was under the impression that he would be trading under 
Infinox Capitals FCA regulated branch based in the UK. I also understand there has 
been a lot of media coverage and warnings issued about GS3 who managed the 
trades on Mr Hs behalf. 
But given that the merchant he actually paid (i.e. the Bahamian arm of Infinox 
Capital) is still a legitimate merchant, there would have been no reason for Santander 
to have automatically blocked his payment pending further enquiry. The banks duty 
is to guard against the risk of fraud and scams  it is not to provide investment advice 
or to protect customers from the impact of making a bad bargain. So, although I 
appreciate Mr H feels he has been defrauded by GS3, that was not the company he 
paid, so Im not persuaded there was any reason for Santander to have intervened in 
these circumstances.
Ive also considered whether Santander acted reasonably in its handling of Mr Hs 
chargeback claims for the payments made to Infinox. Santander said the chargeback 
was declined at pre-arbitration stage, and that it declined to pursue the matter further 
after reviewing the evidence Mr H had provided.
It appears that Santander took the decision to process Mr Hs chargeback claim 
under reason code 13.3 (services not as described). For claims under this reason 
code to have succeeded at Visas final stage of arbitration, Santander would have 
needed to provide evidence that Infinox made written representations to Mr H 
guaranteeing an amount of profit/return he was due to receive. I have not seen any 
evidence that Mr H received any such representations from Infinox, so Im satisfied 
Santander was correct to conclude that it didnt have any prospect of success at 
arbitration under reason code 13.3.
However, I am mindful that the Visa chargeback rules did cover binary options (or 
investment) trading from 14 October 2017, i.e. after the disputed transactions: see 
Visa Business News 26 October 2017:
Effective 14 October 2017, issuers may use Reason Code 53 to address cases whereby a 
binary options (or forex) merchant has imposed obstacles to prevent cardholders from 
withdrawing funds. This chargeback right is limited to the amount available in the binary 
option account at the time funds are requested. Issuers cannot charge back more than the 
original transaction amount, so capital gains from binary options trades cannot be paid out via 
the chargeback process.
It does not appear that Santander pursued a claim under Reason Code 53 (later re 
coded by Visa to 13.5). But I note that the Visa rules required Santander to present 
evidence that Mr H had an available balance and that he tried to withdraw sums 
equal to, or less than, his available balance on the same day. Visa required evidence 
in the form of a dated screenshot on the day the withdrawal was requested, but they 
have also confirmed to this service that they would consider a dated 
acknowledgement from the merchant advising that the withdrawal request will be 
processed, which includes the amount of the request, as sufficient evidence to 
support the chargeback for reason code 13.5, and an additional screenshot would 
not be required if this information was presented.
I can see that Santander requested evidence of Mr H making a withdrawal request to 
Infinox on 30 January 2020:
We just need a bit more information so we can look into your claim
**Provide a dated copy of the withdrawal request **Response to withdrawal 
request (copies if available or confirmation that there was no response) **A 
copy/screen print of the trading account showing the available balance (must 
be the same date as the withdrawal request)
However, I have not seen any evidence that Mr H provided this information to 
Santander, and neither has he demonstrated that he had the specific evidence 
required for a chargeback under reason code 13.5 to have been successful. 
Therefore, I do not think Santander acted unreasonably by failing to pursue a 
chargeback claim under this particular code in these circumstances.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr H, and I sympathise with 
him as I can see that he has lost a significant amount of money. But for the reasons 
set out above, I do not consider Santander to be liable for the loss he has incurred.
I invited further comments and evidence from both parties in response to my provisional 
decision. 
Mr H responded with further evidence in the form of a dated withdrawal request that he 
made to Infinox on 7 November 2019 for an amount of £20,000. I asked Mr H whether he 
sent this to Santander in response to their request for information made on 30 January 2020, 
to which he said he sent it via post as requested. However, he has not been able to provide 
any evidence to show that he did in fact sent the withdrawal request to the bank.
Our investigator forwarded the information to Santander asking if they had received the 
evidence at the time. But the bank confirmed that they had never received the withdrawal 
request Mr H has since submitted. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it.
I appreciate that Mr H has shown that he was in possession of the evidence that could have 
seen a successful chargeback claim be presented to Visa. However, Im not persuaded that 
this was ever received by Santander in order for them to proceed with the chargeback, and it 
would also now be too late for a claim to be submitted due to the time limits under the Visa 
scheme rules. 
I accept that Mr H may have posted the evidence to the bank. But he hasnt got any 
contemporaneous evidence to substantiate this (such as postage receipt or recorded 
delivery slip) and neither did he receive any acknowledgment from Santander, which one 
could have reasonably expected upon correspondence being received. I also havent seen 
any evidence to suggest that Mr H chased a response in this regard. So, on balance, Im not 
satisfied that Santander ever came into possession of the evidence at the time. 
Therefore, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached in my provisional 
decision, as I do not consider Santander to have acted unreasonably by failing to pursue 
Mr Hs chargeback claim any differently in the absence of the evidence they requested.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman