DRN-3778296
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains that TSB Bank plc wouldnt refund a card payment made 
for goods that werent received.
What happened
R says that it made a debit card purchase for £800.10 and that only part of the order from 
the merchant arrived. R hasnt been able to get a refund and raised a dispute.
TSB said it wouldnt be able to help R. It had asked for information to support the claim. And 
R hadnt provided an invoice, details of the goods that were missing and proof that it had 
returned the other ones. It said that unless it received more information it wouldnt be able to 
raise a successful chargeback. It paid R £50 for the time waiting on the phone.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that were looking 
at whether this dispute has been handled fairly. And that a chargeback would have been 
decided by the relevant card scheme. A chargeback was unlikely to be successful here as 
there wasnt evidence to support this.
R didnt agree. The director said that he wanted R to be protected under insurance from TSB 
and had been the victim of a planned scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely at the process TSB followed when R raised the dispute. It asked for an 
online claim form. And then further questions about any invoice, photographs of what had 
been received and evidence of contact with the merchant. It sent several emails about this 
and I think gave R a reasonable opportunity to provide what it had.
I appreciate that R says it doesnt have or has lost the invoice, that the order was done over 
the phone and it has no records of contact with the merchant. I havent seen it supplied the 
evidence TSB asked for including photographs. And I havent seen anything that even refers 
to a specific website or catalogue to show what it was R thought it was ordering. I bear in 
mind that R is a company and would reasonably be expected to keep records to support its 
trading.
As our investigator has said a chargeback wouldnt be decided on by TSB but the relevant 
card scheme. The chargeback process isnt a legal right and is based on a set of rules 
established by the scheme. And these set out for the various chargeback reasons what 
would be expected as compelling evidence to support a claim. Wed expect a chargeback to 
be raised where there was a realistic prospect of success.
Theres no claim here that R didnt authorise the payment. So, the dispute is about the 
quantity and quality of goods supplied. Frankly Ive nothing to help me understand that any 
further. And having looked at all the information I dont have a basis to find that TSB has 
made a mistake. Unfortunately, there is no further protection for debit card payments like this 
and so I consider this would fairly be a civil dispute now between R and the merchant.
I can appreciate that the director will be disappointed when I say that I wont be requiring 
TSB to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman