DRN-4378381
The complaint
Mrs G complains that a timeshare product was misrepresented to her and that the timeshare 
company is in breach of contract. The purchase was financed with credit provided by 
Honeycomb Finance Limited (Honeycomb). That loan has now been transferred to Tandem 
Personal Loans Ltd, but for ease of reference Ill refer to the lender as Honeycomb.  
Because it financed the purchase, Mrs G says that he shas a claim against Honeycomb in 
the same way she has a claim against the timeshare company. 
Mrs G has been represented in this complaint, and so any reference to her submissions and 
arguments include those made on her behalf. 
What happened
In June 2018 Mr and Mrs G bought a points based timeshare product from a company in the 
Azure group. They bought 6,000 XP points and Level 1 club membership at a total cost of 
£18,360. XP points could be exchanged for holiday accommodation and experiences, 
including sailing trips, motor home hire, and driving experiences The purchase was financed 
by a 15-year loan from Honeycomb. The loan was in Mrs Gs name. 
In or around 2020 Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited went into liquidation. 
In or around July 2021 Mr and Mrs G contacted Honeycomb to say they thought they had a 
claim arising from the liquidation. They said too that they had been unable to book holidays 
as they had been promised. Honeycomb treated that contact as a complaint, but did not 
accept the claims made.   
In September 2021 Mr and Mrs G expanded on the points they had made earlier. They said:
 They had been subject to pressured sales tactics.
The timeshare products had been misrepresented to them. 
The products had been sold as an investment, but there is no resale market. 
The seller is in liquidation and is therefore in breach of contract.
Honeycomb had not carried out proper affordability checks.   
Honeycomb did not accept the allegations made, and Mrs G referred the matter to this 
service. One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that 
the complaint be upheld. Mrs G did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that 
an ombudsman review the case.   
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
I would comment first of all that I have not been provided with a full set of documents in 
respect of the timeshare sale. I have therefore relied to some extent on what I understand to 
have been standard form documents used by Azure companies at the relevant time.
In addition, whilst Mr and Mrs G bought the XP points and membership jointly, the loan 
agreement was in her name only, so only Mrs G can bring this complaint. 
Affordability 
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. 
The investigator thought that Honeycomb should have carried out more detailed checks in 
this case to determine whether the loan was affordable for Mrs G. She thought that, given 
the length of the loan period and the sum which Mrs G was borrowing, Honeycomb should 
have asked more questions about her financial circumstances. She thought however that, 
even if more detailed checks had been carried out, it was unlikely they would have revealed 
any financial difficulty. That is, the lending decision was likely to have been the same. 
I have reached broadly the same conclusion and for similar reasons. I would however add 
that, if Mrs G is having difficulty making payments, she should discuss the position with the 
lender to try to reach a mutually acceptable solution. That is the case whether the loan 
repayments were unaffordable from the outset or have become unaffordable as a result of 
any change in Mrs Gs circumstances. 
Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
I do not understand Honeycomb to dispute that the loans were made under pre-existing 
arrangements between it and one of the Azure group of companies (the seller of the 
membership and the XP points) or a company closely linked to the Azure group. I have 
therefore considered what has been said about the sale and subsequent events. 
Breach of contract
As I have indicated, I have not been provided with a full set of contractual documents for 
either sale. I believe however that Mrs G would have received copies of the Rules of 
Membership, the Reservation Rules, and a Deed of Trust. Whether there was a breach of 
contract depends to a very large degree on what was in those documents compared with 
what happened. 
Mrs G says that there was a breach of contract when the Azure companies went into 
liquidation. I do not believe however that is the case.  On 8 July 2020 the trustee wrote to all 
the club members. Its letter said:
We have good news for all members. Following discussions with the liquidators of both 
Azure Resorts Limited and Azure XP Limited and with the directors of Golden Sands Resorts 
Limited (the owner of the resort) it has been decided that in the best interest of all clubs 
members, First National Trustee Company (UK) Limited (FNTC) be requested to establish a 
new company to act as manager of the clubs on behalf of all clubs members.This new management company will be a non-profit making entity and its only role will be to 
manage the clubs for, and on behalf of, its members.

Wed like to reassure you that the future of the clubs is secure. From your perspective as a 
member, there is a lot to look forward to as soon as governmental travel restrictions are 
lifted. We are also pleased to report to you that Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Golden Sands 
in Malta has reopened and is available for member use after the resort has successfully 
established COVID-19 health and safety precautions.
On the face of it, therefore, the services linked to Mr and Mrs Gs purchase of XP points 
remain available to them and are unaffected by the liquidation of the Azure companies. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr and Mrs Gs statements about what they were told at the sales presentation are largely 
unsupported by any documentation. For example, there is no evidence of any attempt to sell 
the XP points. The sales documentation made clear that accommodation and other benefits 
were subject to availability, so I think it unlikely Mrs G was told any particular 
accommodation was guaranteed  to be available.  
Neither party has provided me with a complete set of the sale documents. It is my 
understanding however that the Club Rules include information about how to use XP points, 
including the minimum which must be used each year and how to accelerate their usage  
that is, how to use more than the annual minimum by paying fees sooner than would 
otherwise be the case. 
Mrs G says she was told she had to use 160 XP points a year and that it would therefore 
take 37 years to use the 6,000 points she had bought. She says too that 160 XP points are 
not enough to give access to anything other than the most basic accommodation. That 
however suggests a misunderstanding of how the points system operates  which is set out 
in the standard documents. Mrs G can accelerate the use of points  that is, she can use 
more than 160 points each year, but any additional points she uses wont then be available 
later on. But that gives a wider choice of accommodation and means that the points will be 
used in less than 37 years. I think this was probably explained at the time; it is also 
apparent from the contractual documents. 
I am not persuaded either that the XPs were sold as an investment that Mr and Mrs G could 
sell. They were sold as a means of funding holiday accommodation and experiences.     
On the assumption that the sale documents were on Azures standard terms, they would 
have included, at clause 13:
This Agreement shall constitute the sole agreement between the parties and supersedes all 
prior agreements, representations, discussions and negotiations between the parties with 
respect to the subject matter hereof.
In my view, that was an attempt to ensure that anything on which Mr and Mrs G sought to 
rely was included in the contract itself. I am not persuaded in this case that they were misled, 
but, if I were to take a different view on that, I would need to consider the effect of that 
provision.
Section 140A claimsUnder section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any linked transaction.
If the loan was made under pre-existing arrangements between Honeycomb and the seller 
(or an associate of the seller), the timeshare agreement was a linked transaction within the 
meaning of section 19 of the Consumer Credit Act.   
An ombudsman does not have the power to make an order under section 140B. I must 
however take relevant law into account in deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
And I have the power to make a wide range of awards  including, for example, requiring a 
borrower to refund interest or charges, and to write off or reduce the balance of a loan. I am 
not persuaded however that I should do so here. 
I accept that there were links between Honeycomb and the Azure companies. I do not 
believe however that this led to a conflict of interest in respect of their relationship with Mrs 
G. Azure was selling club membership and XP points. Whilst it introduced finance options, it 
was not acting as Mrs Gs financial adviser or agent and was under no obligation to make an 
impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give advice or information on that basis.    
Mrs G says too that the sale was pressured. She has not really elaborated on that, but I note 
that standard documents included a statement from the buyer to say they had not been put 
under pressure. Its significant too in my view that Mrs G had 14 days in which to review the 
documents and withdraw from both the sale and the loan agreements. If she thought she 
had agreed to any of those agreements as a result of undue pressure, it is not clear to me 
why she didnt take advantage of the option to withdraw.  
Finally, I note that Mrs Gs initial letter of complaint referred to having to attend an update 
meeting and to an intention to sell a timeshare. Those statements indicate to me an existing 
membership of the Azure holiday club. Mrs G did however subsequently confirm that this 
points-based timeshare was the only one that she and Mr G owned. 
It is not for me to decide whether Mrs G has a claim against Azure, or whether she might 
therefore have a like claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Nor can I make 
orders under sections 140A and 140B of the same Act. 
Rather, I must decide what I consider to be a fair and reasonable resolution to Mrs Gs 
complaint. In the circumstances of this case, however, I think that Honeycombs response to 
Mrs Gs claims was fair and reasonable.    
Mrs G did not accept my provisional decision. As well as repeating some of her earlier 
submissions, she provided evidence of her attempts to book accommodation for a week in 
May 2020. She also said that clause 13 of the sale agreement (quoted above) was an 
attempt to contract out of statutory rights, which is not permitted. It was also unfair and 
therefore not enforceable. And she said she had not been provided with a full set of 
documents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shant repeat the findings I set put in my provisional decision here, but will comment on the 
new points Mrs G has made.
As I indicated in my provisional decision, bookings were subject to availability. The 
exchanges in connection with the May 2020 booking show that Mr and Mrs G were unable to 
secure their preferred accommodation, but were offered (and accepted) an alternative. They 
also show that the acceleration of XPs operated as set out in the contractual documentation. 
In the event, the Covid-19 pandemic meant that Mr and Mrs G were unable to take their 
holiday in May 2020, but adjustments were made which, on the face of it, mean that they will 
be able to rebook without losing out.  
Mrs G says that the only documents she received were the finance agreement, a certificate 
of ownership and a certificate of transfer. I think it unlikely however that she agreed to pay 
more than £18,000 without any paperwork setting out what it was she and Mr G had bought. 
I note Mrs Gs comments about clause 13 of the sale agreement. I do not accept however 
that it seeks to remove any statutory protection or that it is likely to be unfair within the 
meaning of the Consumer Rights Act 2015  although that would be for a court decide. In 
any event, I said in my provisional decision that I did not believe Mrs G had been misled, and 
so I did not make any finding on those points.  
My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Mrs 
Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman