DRN-3282100
The complaint
Mr N complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP) declined a claim and then avoided his motor 
warranty policy after his vehicle developed an engine problem.
What happened
Mr N purchased a motor warranty on 29 November 2020 for a vehicle he bought the 
previous day. Mr N says that on 8 January 2021 he tried to start his car and it wouldnt start. 
The initial diagnosis was a failed injector. On further inspection an issue with a cylinder was 
also discovered and there was a requirement to do further investigation. So, Mr N submitted 
a claim on his motor warranty.
Whilst AWP was validating the claim it came to light that Mr N had fitted an immobiliser to his
vehicle. AWP said the vehicle had been altered outside of the manufacturers factory 
standards and said it would never have offered cover if it had known this.
Mr N said this wasnt fair. He said that the immobiliser was fitted after the policy was taken 
out and he didnt consider it a modification/alteration. He said the vehicle security was 
inadequate and he wanted to protect his vehicle not modify or alter it. He said the 
immobiliser had no impact whatsoever on the fact that he was now having engine problems, 
and so he felt his claim was valid. But AWP wouldnt amend its position, so Mr N referred his 
complaint to this service.
An investigator reviewed Mr Ns complaint and said that the breach of the policy (the addition
of an immobiliser) was immaterial to the loss. The investigator said the policy shouldnt have
been avoided and recommended that AWP should now deem the policy as live and 
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. The 
investigator said if the claim was valid it should pay the claim (less any premium already 
refunded, if any was ever refunded).
However, AWP doesnt agree. AWP says an alteration was made and the vehicle is now 
excluded from cover. AWP has also added some further issues that werent initially 
submitted. It says the data from the vehicle shows that some issues, specifically an engine 
mis-fire were present before the policy went live on 29 December 2020, and that the vehicle 
data provided shows that the vehicle hadnt moved in the 8 weeks prior to failure. As such 
AWP believes its not responsible for this repair as it says the issues arose outside of cover. 
AWP also say Mr N has a six-month warranty with another provider which he shouldve 
used.
AWP has asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint in full.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 November 2021. That provisional 
decision is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The immobiliser
The terms and conditions of the policy says; The terms and conditions of the warranty listed
below must be adhered to. Failure to do so will result in the rejection of a claim or the 
termination of your Insured Warranty. The term in the policy AWP has relied on to decline 
this claim is: this policy will not cover an insured vehicle that has been subject to alterations, 
has had experimental equipment fitted or has in any way been modified from the 
manufacturers approved specification.
AWP has avoided the policy and offered to return the premiums (Mr N refused the refund). 
And whereas that may be a fair and reasonable remedy to a situation where Mr N had 
misrepresented and sought cover for a vehicle that had already been altered from the 
manufacturers approved specification, Im conscious that the immobiliser was fitted to the 
vehicle after the policy was taken out. So, in essence this is a mid-term change and not a 
mis-representation and I will treat it as such.
But is this mid-term change deemed an alteration or a modification, and should it have been 
declared to AWP? The policy terms and conditions set out above say that AWP wants to 
know about alterations and modifications to the original vehicle specification. And if changes 
are made to the vehicle specification, cover will cease. AWP say that 
alterations/modifications to the original specifications of the vehicle on cover can cause 
problems down the line and can impact its ability to carry out specific repairs.
But AWP dont define alterations, modifications or experimental equipment. And its not 
my place to define these terms for AWP. So, Im not going to make a finding as to whether 
the immobiliser is deemed any of the above (although I note AWP says the vehicle was 
altered) and I do note that AWP do want to know about changes outside of the vehicle 
specifications.
I can see how an alteration, modification or experimental equipment can cause issues. But 
Im not convinced all alterations, modifications or experimental equipment would have the 
same impact. For example, would sign-writing on the body of a vehicle have the same 
impact on AWPs ability to repair? Im not so sure.
So, the question that needs to be answered is whether the addition of a ghost immobiliser 
would have any impact on AWPs ability to deal with this specific claim? Theres no 
argument that the immobiliser is a piece of kit that is outside the manufacturers specification. 
AWP say that the immobiliser is potentially wired into 5 different locations on the vehicle. 
AWP goes on to say that only a subscription to this specific immobiliser would allow the 
retailer network access to this information to check and inspect that this item isnt affecting 
the vehicle in an adverse way. AWP also says that from the information which it has been 
able to find the vehicle can either be affected to inhibit the electronic ignition system, fuel 
system or the can systems on the vehicle, completely making the vehicle unstart-able. 
Finally, AWP point out that These items are NOT manufacturers approved items and 
therefore not available to the approved network to fit or to have the fitting instructions to 
hand.
And I can see AWPs point. Having this immobiliser on your vehicle could inhibit its ability to 
diagnose an issue, and AWP would more likely than not have to seek outside expert 
knowledge if an issue ever arose. 
But in this specific case, the manufacturers garage that inspected and diagnosed Mr Ns 
vehicle specifically said in a report the ghost alarm has not caused the injector to fail. 
Further to this Mr N has obtained assurances from the auto-electrical engineer that fitted the 
immobiliser that he supports the manufacturers garages findings, and he says that the 
immobiliser had no impact and didnt cause the injector failure.
So, on the basis we have evidence that categorically states that the immobiliser had no 
impact on the issues that arose with the vehicles engine, is it then fair for AWP to decline a 
claim based on the exclusion as set out above? This service has a long-held approach that 
an insurer cant fairly rely on a breach of a policy requirement to decline a claim where that 
breach was immaterial to the loss suffered. And in this specific instance, the alleged breach 
of the policy terms such as the addition of the immobiliser is immaterial to the loss in 
question, and this is supported by the manufacturer and the auto-electrical expert. 
I appreciate and Ive considered what AWP has said in relation to the wiring of the 
immobiliser and its inability to potentially access the immobiliser system. But this is 
speculation based on experience of other claims. Its not based on any specialist diagnosis 
in relation to this specific claim. As such Im satisfied that in this particular case, supported 
by comments from both the manufacturer and the auto-electrical engineer that fitted the 
immobiliser that the breach of the policy conditions (the addition of the immobiliser) is 
immaterial to the loss.
Additional issues raised
At this point Id normally ask AWP to reconsider the claim. But I note that AWP has already 
done this. AWP has now said there are additional issues to consider. AWP says the claim 
isnt covered because of the pre-existing faults it says are showing on the vehicle data 
system. AWP also says the data taken from the vehicle shows that the vehicle hadnt been 
used in 8 weeks, which brings it back to the time the policy was taken out. As such AWP 
believes these faults pre-date the policy inception and arent covered by this policy. AWP 
also says Mr N had an alternative warranty which he should be using.
AWP says the vehicle was uplifted from one retailer and then moved to another retailer to 
continue the investigation. It says the faults logged in the vehicle range from, Control unit 
voltage, CAS voltage issues, CCC (control unit) voltage issues, HUD (display faults), Kombi 
cluster faults, engine misfire faults, SZL Voltage issues, to name just a few that were present 
when the vehicle was first purchased. Its submitted screen shots of the fault code data to 
support this.
But looking at the supporting screen shots its not clear what date these faults appeared. The 
email from AWP states faults logged the first time the vehicle attended retailer. The screen 
shot is dated 11 January 2021 which is at least six weeks after the policy was taken out, and 
it has a mileage consistent with that on the recovery sheet which was filled out at the time 
the vehicle was recovered in January 2021. 
Further screen shots show faults recorded. So, theres no question faults are recorded. But 
from the evidence presented these faults are present after recovery. So, the only conclusion 
I can draw from this data is that faults were identified after the vehicle had broken down and 
was recovered. Theres nothing to say these faults are pre-policy purchase. 
AWP also state that the vehicle data shows the vehicle covered 0kms over the 8 weeks 
prior to a reading taken on 26 January 2021. AWP says this implies this vehicle hasnt 
moved since the policy was taken out on 29 November 2020. Because of this AWP says its 
safe to assume the faults were present at time of warranty purchase and its not liable for any repairs. Its provided screen shots that show a vehicle update on 24 December 2020, last 
read taken 26 January 2021 and that the kilometre average for the last 8 weeks is zero. 
But this conflicts with the rest of the data AWP has submitted, and it certainly conflicts with 
what Mr N has told us. AWP has provided an invoice from day of sale. It says the vehicle 
had 53,097 miles on the clock. AWP says the mileage submitted the following day was 
53,300 miles, and this seems reasonable. The mileage recorded on the day the vehicle was 
recovered is 54,225 miles. This corresponds with the mileage shown in the data screen 
shots from 26 January 2021 (last updated 24 December 2020).
So, it looks like the vehicle was in use from 28 November 2020 to 24 December 2020. For
further confirmation Ive listened to the call Mr N had with our investigator. Mr N says that on
the copy of the health check that was done on the actual day of the vehicle purchase the 
mileage is recorded as 53,236 miles. So, if we take this mileage reading, its clear that Mr N 
travelled 900+ miles from 28 November to the next recorded data update which was 24 
December 2020.
Mr N also says that in this time he made two long journeys in this car, both of which equate 
to 300-mile round trips. Hes provided an airport car parking booking confirmation for this 
specific vehicle registration dated 4 December to 7 December 2020 to support this. He has 
also advised that he contracted Covid19 at the end of December and this is why the vehicle 
wasnt driven for a period of time between end December 2020 and early January 2021.
Finally, AWP also say that Mr N should be using an alternative he was supplied with when 
he purchased the vehicle. However, Mr N has confirmed that he never actually took this 
warranty. Instead he exchanged it for a full health check from the garage before he 
purchased the vehicle. He then bought the AWP warranty the very next day.
So, evidence shows that the immobiliser had no impact on the failure of the engine. Mr Ns 
testimony matches the majority of the data thats been submitted. The data provided via 
sales invoices, car parking confirmation and the recovery sheet suggests the car travelled at 
approximately 900 miles from November and December 2020. So, Im satisfied the vehicle 
was mobile when the policy was purchased and has been driven whilst on cover. Ive no 
reason to doubt Mr Ns explanation as to why the vehicle hasnt been moved since end 
December and hes confirmed that he didnt actually take the alternative that was offered. 
Further to this its not clear from the data provided that there were any faults at time of 
purchase. The data provided shows a date of 11 January 2021, which is after the vehicle 
was recovered following the breakdown.
So, based on what Ive seen, I cant see any reason as to why AWP shouldnt pay this claim. 
As such Im planning on upholding this complaint, and I will be recommending that AWP 
pays this claim and any associated costs as per the terms and conditions of the policy. Im 
conscious that the policy was avoided and AWP offered a premium refund (which Mr N 
subsequently declined). So, AWP P&C SA need to pay the claim including all associated 
costs, (less the policy premium thats already been refunded, if any). 8% simple interest 
should be added to any amount AWP P&C SA pays out from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement. Im also recommending that AWP pays Mr N £250 for the inconvenience of the 
delays it caused by declining this claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I sent my provisional decision on 24 November 2021 as set out above. Both parties replied. I 
sent two further informal replies to both parties on 13 December 2021 and 24 January 2022. 
I will deal with all replies and responses below.
When AWP replied it said the immobiliser was a modification and invalidated its cover. It 
said that even though the policy was taken out on 29 November 2020, cover didnt actually 
start until 29 December 2021, and that its investigation proved that the vehicle hadnt moved 
in the time from cover started until the vehicle was inspected. It says this data is taken 
directly from the vehicle and is accurate. AWP provided the data again to prove the vehicle 
hadnt moved in eight weeks and pointed out again that there was an alternative policy in 
place, and that there was a discrepancy in the original purchase mileage. 
Mr N replied, said he was satisfied with the outcome and raised a car hire issue. He also 
provided evidence of when the policy actually started. 
So, I responded to both parties via email on 13 December 2021. I said based on what I had 
now received I was minded to change the outcome to a partial uphold. I said my findings on 
the immobiliser and the alternative policy remained the same as in my provisional decision. 
But I said the clarification of the actual start date, alongside the updated data provided 
meant that the claim was outside of the scope of cover and AWP didnt have to pay. 
Mr N replied. He disputed AWPs claim that the vehicle hadnt moved in eight weeks. He 
said the evidence was contradictory. He also contacted the manufacturers garage and he 
provided an email which stated that given the age of his vehicle it would be impossible to 
identify exactly when these specific faults were recorded. The manufacturer said that this 
vehicle doesnt carry this level of detail in its fault memory system. Mr N questioned why this 
data is only coming to light now, and he said that AWP was deliberately lying and attempting 
to mislead the investigation. He also said his car remains at the garage and is currently in a 
state of disrepair.
AWP didnt add anything further.
Based on the responses received I reviewed the complaint completely again. And based on 
this review, my findings on the immobiliser and the alternative policy remain the same as in 
my provisional decision. As do my findings on the movement recorded in the vehicle data. 
Mr N has provided enough to show the vehicle was in use in December 2020, so I agree this 
evidence doesnt seem correct. 
In relation to the fault data provided, in particular the mis-fires recorded, I spoke to two 
mechanics, and a service manager from more than one branch of the manufacturers 
dealership. And on 24 January 2022, I wrote to both parties and said that based on the 
expert conversations Id had, the mis-fire fault recordings that were recorded on the vehicle 
history data printout couldve occurred before the car came on cover on 29 December 2020 
or they could as likely have been recorded on the day Mr N returned to his car and 
attempted to start it, 8 January 2021. I said it was very clear there was a misfire. The video 
taken by the garage shows a broken plug, which is widely known as a primary cause for a 
misfire. I advised that a mis-fire can happen either when the engine is running, the car is 
moving or simply when the engine is being cranked. So, linking the misfire solely to the data 
that shows the vehicle was immobile from 24 December 2020, isnt correct. And as there 
was no way of knowing when this mis-fire was recorded, it wasnt fair for AWP to assume it 
happened before the policy started.
Based on this further information I reverted back to my original findings and I advised that I 
was going to uphold this complaint as set out in my provisional decision dated 24 November 
2021. The only thing certain here is there was a mis-fire and this was diagnosed on 11 January 2021. There isnt enough evidence to suggest the mis-fire happened before the 
cover actually started on 29 December 2020. As such, AWP should now pay the claim up to 
the policy limits, plus 8% interest and compensation as directed in my provisional decision. 
I appreciate Mr N has mentioned car hire and rectification costs for the vehicle outside the 
scope of the claim. But these have not been detailed nor supported, so I wont be including 
these costs in this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to:
pay the claim up to the policy limits including all associated diagnostic and stripping 
costs, (less the policy premium thats already been refunded, if any, and excess) plus 
8% simple interest on the remaining amount from date of claim to date of settlement.
Pay £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr N has suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman