DRN-2452543
The complaint
Miss J and Mr M are unhappy because their claim for storm-related damage under their 
home insurance policy has been declined by QIC Europe Ltd (QIC).
What happened
After a series of high-speed winds in February and March this year, Mr L noticed damage to 
the external rendering and the internal felt in the loft and roof. QIC wouldnt pay for the 
repairs. They said the cause of the damage was gradual wear and tear. They said the storm 
highlighted pre-existing damage, which is excluded under Miss J and Mr Ms home 
insurance policy.
While Miss J and Mr M were waiting to hear from QIC about their complaint, they 
complained to this service. Miss J and Mr M want QIC to pay for the damage to be fixed. 
They also want compensation for the distress theyve been put through whilst pursuing this 
claim.
QIC gave Miss J and Mr M their final response in July 2020. They said that theyd denied the 
claim as there was no evidence that the damage to the render and the roof was a direct 
result of storm winds. QIC also said that as Miss J and Mr M were unhappy with this 
decision, theyd sent the file to QICs Technical Team for review. That Team had upheld the 
decline.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. While she was satisfied that thered been storm 
conditions at around the time of Miss J and Mr Ms claim, she considered itd been fair of 
QIC to say this hadnt been the cause of the damage. So it was fair for QIC to decline the 
claim.
Miss J and Mr M disagreed with our investigator. So their case has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
As you know, we ask three questions when assessing insurance claims for storm damage:
1. is it agreed that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened?
2. is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?
3. were storm conditions the main cause of the damage or were there other factors that 
meant the damage might have happened anyway?
Miss J and Mr Ms home insurance policy states that storm damage covers damage caused 
by winds of Force 10 or above, as defined under Beaufort Scale. This is equivalent to 
55mph. Weather reports show winds of over 55mph on one day during a 27-day period 
across February and March. QIC doesnt dispute that storm conditions occurred. Im 
satisfied with that part of the claim. However, while I can see that a storm took place, Miss J 
and Mr Ms claim is only valid if the damage to the rendering and the internal felt was mainly 
caused by the storm. 
Miss J and Mr M have provided their mortgage valuation report from November 2019 which 
shows that at that time the external walls were in average condition. I note that the purpose 
of a mortgage valuation report is usually a basic valuation of the property. It will comment on 
the general condition of the property. But it wont highlight if there are structural issues with 
the property. So its hard to rely on it in any detail in this case.
When he inspected the property on 8 May 2020 QICs surveyor wrote the following about the 
render:
the inspection of the render to the gable highlighted historical fractures and general wear 
and tear issues. Freeze and thaw cycles have caused weakening of the adhesion to the 
brickwork and any recent storm conditions have merely highlighted inherent issues.
He wrote this about the roof felt:
in my considered opinion the claim for damages to the roof felt in the roof space should be 
declined in full. The damage noted internally within the roof space to the roofing felt was 
indicative of long-term wear and tear and UV exposure. 
After considering the surveyors report and photos of the property, QIC concluded that the 
damage had probably taken place over time. They said that the damage wasnt consistent 
with what we generally see as storm damage. They felt that the storm had merely 
highlighted a pre-existing condition of the render and the roof felt. So they couldnt cover it 
under storm damage. Miss J and Mr Ms policy doesnt cover anything that happens 
gradually. So QIC couldnt cover the damage under any other section of the policy.
Having considered all the evidence, I consider that it was reasonable for QIC to say that the 
damage was caused over time. While the storm may have highlighted the issues, the 
damage was due to wear and tear over time. So the 3 conditions listed earlier havent been 
met. Although the mortgage valuation report is very recent, it doesnt provide enough detail 
or evidence for me to go against the surveyors report. The mortgage valuation report wasnt 
intended to give the level of detail of a surveyors report. So Im not persuaded that the 
damage to the rendering and the internal felt was mainly caused by the storm. So I think that 
it was fair for QIC to decline the claim for storm damage to the rendering and the internal felt. 
I know this will be disappoint to Miss J and Mr M. I know they feel that the damage was 
caused by the storm. It is possible that the damage was caused or made worse by the 
storm. But I cant find enough evidence to support this view.
I know that Miss J and Mr M have been frustrated by both QIC and this service accepting 
that storm conditions were present around the time the damage was first noticed. 
This makes them even more disappointed that the claim has been denied by QIC. But QIC 
should only pay the claim for storm damage if the storm conditions were the main cause of 
the damage. As there were other factors that meant the damage might have happened 
anyway, I cant uphold this complaint.
Miss J and Mr M have also said that theyre dont think theres been any questioning of the 
statements the surveyor has made. They felt this service has simply played back QICs 
arguments to them. Im sorry that Miss J and Mr M feel this way. But we are an impartial 
service. We can only review the information both sides put in front of us. We must then form a view as to what is right on balance of probabilities. On this basis, I havent been able to 
uphold Miss J and Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Joanne Occleshaw
Ombudsman