DRN-1393429
 
Complaint
Mr and Ms W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Ms W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2006. Mr and Ms W paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It was sold as part of an 
insurance package called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan, or TMPP for short.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Ms Ws case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Understandably, neither side still have all the original documents from the sale, because of 
the time thats passed. But from what weve seen of Halifaxs sales process from the time, it 
wouldve given Mr and Ms W a choice about buying PPI, and only set up the policy if they 
actively chose it. Ive not seen any evidence that Halifax significantly departed from its 
normal process here, or that it put Mr and Ms W under any unfair pressure to take PPI. I can 
see they were given a quote which set out the PPIs cost separately to the cost of the 
mortgage  it wasnt part and parcel of the mortgage. Mr and Ms W were also told they were 
free to change their mind and cancel the policy. Mr and Ms W say they only took the policy 
because it was part of their life cover. But they didnt take the life element of the TMPP 
package, just the PPI. The PPI was not bundled with any life cover. Overall, I think its most 
likely that Halifax made Mr and Ms W aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
that they chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing 
so after so long.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Ms W, so it had to check it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr and Ms W were eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. And Mr Ws income being partly commission-based didnt affect 
how much benefit this policy would pay out.
The policy covered Mr and Ms W much more comprehensively than their work benefits. For 
instance, their sick pay reduced to just a fraction of their normal salary after three or five 
months, and they each had only a month or less of redundancy pay. Whereas the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those benefits, and for up to 12 months in any one claim. Mr and 
Ms W said they had some savings and an endowment policy. The endowment policy was a 
very different product to the PPI and had a different use  it wasnt an equivalent type of 
cover. And the PPI meant Mr and Ms W could effectively protect their savings and 
endowment, and wouldnt have to sacrifice these assets to keep up with their repayments. 
Further, this mortgage was a very long-term, significant commitment, and there was no 
guarantee that Mr and Ms W would still have the same level of benefits or investments in the 
many years to come. And ultimately, if theyd fallen behind on their mortgage they couldve 
lost their home. So it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for them in protecting their 
home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Ms W about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr and Ms W werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Ms W could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman