DRN-2645700
The complaint
Mr S complains ETU Forsikring A/S (ETU) declined his pet insurance claim after his dog was
involved in a car accident.
What happened
In early November 2019, Mr S was working in his front garden and his dog was with him.
After hearing a bang, Mr S checked his back garden as he couldnt see his dog in the front
garden. When he realised his dog wasnt there, he checked the road and saw that his dog
had been hit by a car. Mr S immediately took his dog to the vets where he was treated for
several days. Fortunately, Mr S dog recovered from his injuries. Mr S then submitted a claim
under the pet insurance policy he held with ETU to be reimbursed for the vet bills.
ETU considered Mr S claim but didnt think it was covered. They explained the policy has a
general condition that says pet owners should take all reasonable steps to prevent accident
or injury, and they werent satisfied Mr S had done so at the time of his dogs accident. They
didnt consider Mr S had taken enough care by allowing his dog to be off the leash in the
front garden when Mr S lived on a busy road.
Mr S disagreed with ETUs decision. He explained his dog was well trained and frequently
goes out in the front garden and has never run into the road before. He also said his dog
behaves well when off the leash when walking in the countryside and responds well to
commands. Because of this, he felt this was a genuine accident that should be covered
under the policy. ETU maintained its decision, so Mr S brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator felt ETU unfairly declined Mr S claim and asked them to pay it. Given what
Mr S had explained about his dogs behaviour, our investigator didnt think Mr S could have
foreseen the accident happening. And it was for that reason she felt ETU had unfairly
applied the policy term about taking reasonable steps when it declined Mr S claim.
ETU disagreed with our investigators findings, so the case was passed to me to make a
decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 February 2021. In this I explained I wasnt minded to 
uphold Mr S complaint because I wasnt persuaded he had taken all reasonable steps to 
prevent his dogs accident. Mr S and ETU had until 24 February 2021 to provide any 
additional points and/or evidence for me to consider.
ETU accepted what Id said in my provisional decision, and we didnt receive a response 
from Mr S. In light of this, my decision remains the same and Ill explain my reasoning below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this isnt the
outcome Mr S hoped for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
In reaching my decision, I had to consider whether Mr S had acted in line with the terms and
conditions of his pet insurance policy, in particular the general condition that says:
1. Throughout the Period of Insurance You must take all reasonable steps to maintain
Your Pets health and to prevent Accidents, Injury, Illness and loss.
ETU didnt think Mr S had acted in line with this term because his dogs accident happened
during rush hour, after escaping from the front garden, which was on a busy main road. So,
Ive had to decide if theyve fairly applied this condition to Mr S claim.
Mr S says his family has owned their dog since he was a puppy, and he has only lived at the
same address  meaning it was a very familiar environment to him. Weve also been told
their dog is in the front garden, generally on a daily basis, and has never wandered off the
property before. And its for this reason Mr S considers what happened was an unforeseen
accident.
I agree that what happened was an unfortunate accident. But not all accidents are covered
by Mr S policy. So, for me to say ETU should pay the claim, I need to be persuaded that on
the day Mr S dog was hit by a car, Mr S took all reasonable steps to prevent the accident
from happening. And having considered everything provided to us, Im not satisfied thats the
case.
I want to start by saying Mr S did take some steps to prevent an accident from happening.
They were having his dog in an environment he was familiar with, and Mr S being
present in the front garden. However, I dont consider that was enough. I say that because
Mr S property is located on a busy main road. And while the front garden has a gate, it
wasnt closed at the time of the accident, despite it being rush hour at the time. Mr S has
said his dog would have been able to get past the gate even if it was closed. But the gate
being open was less of a deterrent and I think thats important here given Mr S own
testimony about how well trained his dog is.
Ive also had to give consideration to the fact that while Mr S was in the front garden with his
dog, it took Mr S some time to notice he was missing. Mr S says he heard a bang and it was
at that point he noticed his dog was no longer in the front garden. So, the first thing he did
was check his back garden  and only after he realised his dog wasnt there, did he check
the road.
There are occasions when a person wont constantly have an eye on their dog. So, that isnt
the issue here. But what I cant ignore is that Mr S dog was out of his sight long enough for
Mr S not to have noticed he was no longer in the front garden  nor did he know in which
direction his dog had wandered off. This is important given his dog wasnt on a leash and in
a front garden located on a busy main road during rush hour.Just because something hasnt happened before, doesnt mean its completely
unforeseeable that it could happen in the future. So, I cant agree that Mr S dog never
having left the front garden unaccompanied in the past, meant that was an unforeseeable
event. Ultimately, you cannot fully predict how a person, let alone a pet, will behave in any
given circumstance. But you can take steps to try and prevent an unwanted event from
happening. And in this case, Im not satisfied enough steps were taken to prevent Mr S dog
from leaving his property. As such, while the accident was unfortunate, I cant fairly say ETU
incorrectly applied the policy terms and conditions to Mr S claim.
In light of the above, I dont consider ETU needs to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr S complaint about ETU Forsikring A/S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman