DRN-4494867
The complaint
Miss B and Mr Y complain about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) decision 
to decline their claim under their home insurance policy. 
Mr Y has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any actions taken, or comments made, by either Miss B or   
Mr Y as Mr Y throughout the decision.   
What happened
Mr Y says two people entered his home using false identities and stole a watch worth 
£3,300. Mr Y says one of them was wearing the watch and then walked out of his home, but 
Mr Y felt he would be in danger if he tried to prevent them from leaving with his watch. Mr Y 
says he reported the incident to the police and also made a claim against his policy. Admiral 
declined the claim on the basis there was no forced entry into his home, so Mr Y 
complained. 
Admiral responded and explained the account Mr Y gave them was that he placed an 
advertisement to sell his watch on social media and other marketing sites. They said, two 
people contacted Mr Y and then came to Mr Ys home to look at the watch. Admiral said they 
understand Mr Y let them into his home and they then stole the watch. Admiral explained the 
claim had been declined as there was no forced entry. Admiral referred to a section in the 
policy terms and conditions which said they wouldnt cover a claim unless force and violence 
was used to enter into Mr Ys home.  
Our investigator looked into things for Miss B and Mr Y. She thought Admiral hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. Mr Y disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss B and Mr Y will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Ill start by saying, Im sorry to hear about the impact the theft had on Miss B and Mr Y. My 
role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal formality 
and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main areas of 
dispute. 
The key dispute here relates to Admirals decision to decline the claim based on a policy 
exclusion relating to force and violence. So, Ive looked to see whether Admirals decision is 
fair and reasonable. 
My starting point is Mr Ys home insurance policy booklet which sets out the terms and 
conditions. This shows Mr Y is covered for theft but, under a section headed What is not 
covered, it says, Loss or damage caused by you or your family or any other person 
lawfully in your homeunless force and violence was used to enter your home. The key 
part of this term which Admiral are referring to in support of their decision to decline the 
claim is force and violence  which they say hasnt been used here. 
This type of restriction is intended to make sure an insurer only has to pay claims where a 
policyholders home has obviously been broken into. Insurers use this term to avoid the risk 
of paying claims where a theft has occurred and where circumstances have allowed the thief 
to get in and out of a property without having to actually break into the property or cause any 
damage. 
The courts have considered the question of what constitutes force and violence in a number 
of cases and the legal approach to these types of cases has developed over time. Ive 
reviewed the relevant case law, and one important judgment said the words actual forcible 
and violent entry, was intended to mean an entry effected by the exercise of force in a 
manner that was not customary in order to overcome the resistance of the usual fastenings 
and protections in the premises. If a person turns a key he uses force but not violence. If he 
uses a skeleton key, he uses force but not violence. If on the other hand instead of using a 
key he uses a pick-lock, or some other instrument, or a piece of wire, by which as a lever he 
forces back the lock, it appears to me that he uses force and violence
Our service generally takes a similar approach. The use of force and violence doesnt 
necessarily lead to damage. We will typically interpret force as some form of action or 
energy being applied to something. So, something as simple as turning a handle or opening 
a door would constitute force. Where a thief has used a picklock or some other instrument to 
unlock a door, we will consider this violent even if this results in no physical damage to the 
property. This is because that person has had to use a level of force over and above what 
would usually be necessary  and theyve gained entry in a manner that wasnt customary. 
So, Ive applied this approach to the facts of this case.  
 
Claim notes provided by Admiral show Mr Y reported the incident to Admiral and explained 
the circumstances leading to the theft of his watch. He explained he invited the two people 
into his home and, while one was wearing the watch on his wrist, they walked out. In 
applying the terms of the policy, I cant say the two people gained entry into Mr Ys home in 
a manner which wasnt customary and with force over and above what was necessary. 
Theres no dispute here that the two people gained access to Mr Ys home through the door 
being opened for them. That said, I have gone further and considered the event beyond just 
the initial access to Mr Ys home. The case law Ive considered here also highlights that, 
even if force and violence isnt used to get into the property initially  but is used to access 
another part of the property  there are instances where it may be fair in the circumstances 
for this to be covered. In this case though, I havent seen any evidence in Mr Ys account of 
events to Admiral or our service which persuades me this applies here. 
I can see another area of dispute between the parties relates to whether the two people 
were in Mr Ys home lawfully. Mr Y says they werent in his home lawfully as they used false 
identities and their plan was to steal his watch. I do acknowledge Mr Ys points, but the 
information shows Mr Y gave permission for the two people to enter his home and I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest they exceeded any permissions given. 
I do acknowledge Mr Ys point about their action in using false identities amounting to an 
unlawful act, but I think the context in which the term lawfully is used in the terms and 
conditions relates to someone lawfully being in a property. And in this case, as Ive 
mentioned, Mr Y gave permission for the two people to enter his home. So, from the 
information Ive seen, I cant say the two people entered into Mr Ys home, or remained 
there, unlawfully. In Mr Ys testimony, he explains one person was wearing the watch when they walked out of 
his home. Its not clear how or why this person was wearing the watch  and whether Mr Y 
gave them the watch to try on. But, based on Mr Ys contemporaneous account of events 
when reporting the incident to Admiral, I havent seen any evidence that force or violence 
was used to take the watch. So, taking into account the case law, the policy terms and 
conditions and our services approach  and applying these to the facts of this case, I cant 
say Admiral have acted unfairly in declining the claim based on the force and violence 
exclusion.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman