DRN-3274833
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy about the way UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd dealt with a request for a 
term extension and transfer of equity on his mortgage. He says that, as a result of UCBs 
failings, he had to re-mortgage elsewhere and wants UCB to reimburse the costs of this.
What happened
UCB has accepted it made some mistakes in its handling of this matter, so for that reason I 
dont need to analyse what happened in detail in order to ascertain if UCB is at fault. I also 
note that whats happened has been set out in detail in the correspondence between the 
parties. Because our decisions are published, I must ensure I dont include anything that 
might lead to Mr A being identified. For all these reasons, I will keep my summary of what 
happened fairly brief.
Mr A had an interest-only mortgage with UCB, taken out in 2004. He had borrowed just over 
£113,000 on an interest-only basis.  The mortgage was due to expire in April 2019. Mr As 
original repayment strategy was part-pension and part-endowment. But after the financial 
crash in 2008, he cashed in the endowment and took early retirement. By February 2019 
Mr A had unsecured debt of just over £80,000, some of which was covered by a Debt 
Management Plan (DMP). 
In February 2019 Mr A asked UCB to extend the mortgage term for a further five years, and 
to add his partner to the mortgage. Mr As plan was to keep the mortgage on interest-only 
until his partner retired, when she would use a £35,000 pension lump sum to reduce the 
balance.
UCB explained that the options for an extension on an interest-only basis were very limited, 
but agreed to extend the mortgage for a six months to allow the application for a transfer of 
equity to be considered. In July 2019 UCB told Mr A that it couldnt consider a transfer of 
equity as the remaining term was less than six months. UCB agreed a further term extension 
of six months from October 2019  so until April 2020, to enable an application to be made 
to add Mr As partner to the mortgage.
Again the underwriters declined the application, due to there being less than six months 
outstanding on the mortgage term.
In June 2020, frustrated with UCB, Mr A re-mortgaged to a new lender, in joint names with 
his partner. Their new mortgage is on an interest-only basis over a term of just over seven 
years.
Mr A complained that UCB had refused to extend the mortgage by up to five years and to 
add his partner to the account. UCB didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr A brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator thought thered been some administrative errors by UCB because UCB 
hadnt communicated clearly enough with the underwriters that the mortgage term was to be 
extended for six months to allow the transfer of equity to go ahead  and that this had 
happened twice. She asked UCB to pay Mr A compensation of £100 for trouble and upset. 
The investigator also asked UCB to cover the costs incurred by Mr A of having to 
re-mortgage to a new lender - £4,114, plus 8% interest. 
However, UCB didnt agree with this. In response to the investigators findings, UCB asked 
its underwriters to consider the case by recreating the affordability calculation using all the 
information Mr A had provided on his application and applying its current criteria. UCB 
explained that it was no longer able to offer interest-only borrowing, and hadnt been able to 
do so since 2008. 
UCB said that even if it hadnt made the mistakes in communicating with the underwriters, a 
term extension and adding Mr As partner to the mortgage would never have been possible, 
as it wouldnt have been affordable on a repayment basis.
After considering what UCB had said, the investigator agreed that, even if the application 
had been made, it could not have succeeded. Thats because UCB no longer offered 
interest-only mortgages; the application could only have proceeded on a capital repayment 
basis, which was unaffordable. As a result, the investigator reverted to her original position, 
and asked UCB to pay compensation of £100, but no additional costs.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
case. Hes made a few further points, which I summarise below:
the capital and interest argument is a red herring because retirement age is now 
open-ended and he and his partner are both still working;
as an existing customer, the Financial Conduct Authority had issued guidance that if 
no extra borrowing was requested, the interest-only options could be continued to 
help customers in his situation;
he and his partner were happy to consider part-capital repayment and part 
interest-only to reduce the mortgage prior to full repayment on retirement or sale of 
the property;
affordability was never an issue with interest-only;
no allowance was given to him as a long-standing customer by a closed book lender, 
with a good track record over many years;
despite past financial difficulties, mortgage payments were paid as soon as possible;
he considers himself and his partner to be vulnerable because he is paying off 
significant unsecured borrowings and his partner had lost her mother, aged 90. UCB 
should have made an allowance for this;
his partner is now unable to work and he is her official full-time carer. He attributes 
her health problems in part to the stress of possibly losing her home, due to the 
actions of UCB;
there was never any risk to UCB if it had extended the mortgage term.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that the mortgage had reached the end of its term and UCB was 
entitled to expect repayment in full of the outstanding capital balance. It was reasonable for Mr A to ask about a term extension of up to five years, and to add his partner to the account, 
but there was no guarantee this would be agreed.
Its not disputed that UCB made mistakes. UCB has admitted that on two separate 
occasions its collections team didnt make it clear enough to the underwriters that a six-
month term extension had been agreed so that an application for a longer-term extension 
and a transfer of equity could be considered. 
Mr A has referred to rules introduced by the FCA and says that there was no need for UCB 
to consider whether or not the mortgage was affordable  it should have agreed to the term 
extension as nothing else was changing. In this regard, I note Mr As financial situation was 
significantly worse than when hed taken out the mortgage in 2004. In 2020 he was 67 years 
old, he had over £80,000 of unsecured debt, was in a DMP and had in recent years been in 
arrears on the mortgage (although I note hed been able to pay these off). But on any 
assessment of his circumstances, Mr As financial situation was not stable.
Mr A is correct that after the financial crash, the FCA conducted a Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR) and new rules came into effect in 2014. These made lenders responsible for 
ensuring mortgages were affordable. Stringent checks were introduced, including more 
rigorous affordability assessment and more detailed enquiries into repayment strategies for 
interest-only mortgages. The new rules applied not just to applications for new mortgages, 
but also to existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their mortgage  as Mr A did 
when he wanted to extend the mortgage term by a further five years and add his partner to 
the mortgage. 
Lenders have discretion to dispense with an affordability assessment if, for example, a 
customer wants to port their existing mortgage onto a new property and there is no new 
borrowing, the loan-to-value ratio is the same or lower, and the term is the same. But a term 
extension is considered a material change to the mortgage, as is adding another party to the 
account. Given this, Im satisfied UCB had a duty to take these stricter rules into account 
when considering Mr As request.
The actual application for a term extension was, in fact, never considered by UCB because 
Mr A and his partner took out a new mortgage with a different lender. Costs were incurred as 
a result, and so Ive looked to see whether its fair and reasonable for UCB to reimburse 
these.
Im satisfied that if the application had gone ahead for a five-year term extension it would 
have been declined. In 2008 UCB closed to new business and so is no longer able to offer 
interest-only mortgages to its customers. UCBs policy is also that all mortgages must be 
repaid before the eldest applicants 75th birthday, and the minimum term that it could have 
allowed (nine years) would have gone beyond Mr As 75th birthday. 
Ive looked at the assessment prepared by UCB as if it had considered a term extension in 
2020. Having done so, Im satisfied that UCB would not have been able to extend the term 
and add Mr As partner to the mortgage on an interest-only basis  as this was outside its 
policy. Im also satisfied that a term extension on a capital repayment basis wouldnt have 
been affordable.
On a nine-year capital repayment term, without settling all his other unsecured debts, UCB 
could only have lent £17,200. If Mr A had settled all his unsecured debts (and from the 
information Ive seen, he had no way of doing so), the maximum loan would have been 
£75,000 on a nine-year term. Because a nine-year term ran beyond Mr As 75th birthday, the 
application was outside UCBs lending policy.In the circumstances, Im satisfied that, even if UCB hadnt made mistakes in its 
communication with the underwriters, a term extension wouldnt have been agreed in any 
event.
Putting things right
I can see that UCBs communication was poor, leading Mr A to believe a term extension 
would be considered, yet not explaining to its underwriters  twice  that six-month 
extensions had been agreed to enable the application to be made. This, I am sure, caused 
Mr A some frustration. I direct UCB to pay Mr A £100 compensation for this.
But Im satisfied that UCB isnt required to reimburse Mr A the costs of re-mortgaging to a 
new lender because that is something he would always have needed to do. I say this 
because, from the information provided by UCB, the application, had it gone ahead, would 
have been declined in any event.
My final decision
My final decision is that UCB Home Loans Corporation Ltd must pay Mr A £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience in full and final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman