DRN-4417762
The complaint
Mrs C complains that, when she made withdrawals from an ATM abroad, Santander UK Plc 
was responsible for her being charged a markup on each transaction, when she had 
understood that all such withdrawals were not subject to any fees or charges.
What happened
In March 2023, whilst abroad Mrs C withdrew cash from a local ATM on several successive 
days. I understand that she made eight withdrawals in total. Subsequently she noticed on 
her receipts that shed been charged an 8.5% markup on each withdrawal, which amounted 
to a considerable sum.
Mrs C complained to Santander. It said that, having investigated this matter, the eight ATM 
cash withdrawals made in March 2023, (as detailed on her statement), were not requested in 
the local currency. It said that as the withdrawals of cash were not requested in the local 
currency, the ATM provider charged a fee for using their cash machine. This accounted for 
the markup. Santander said it had not made an error.
I understand that Mr C (for himself and Mrs C) contacted the local branch of Santander 
where the ATM was situated, and that he received a reply from it which said that neither it 
nor the ATM owner had charged a fee and that the markup was likely to have been charged 
by the card provider. Mrs C feels the only way to resolve this is to contact the said local 
branch of Santander, to find out why they were charged in March 2023 when they touched 
the local currency button and not in June when the card worked fully automatically.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said there was no 
evidence that Santander UK had made a mistake here. Mrs C is responsible for her use of 
the ATM. And that Santander UK hadnt profited from any fees, charges or markups placed 
on the transactions she made in March 2023.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I don't think that Santander UK profited from the markup. Santander UK says that the local 
branch likely did profit from the markup, although that branch denies that. Mrs Cs ATM 
receipts clearly show an 8.5% markup. Santander says that Mrs C selected the own 
currency option. I also think it's likely that, when carrying out the transactions, Mrs C would 
have been presented with a screen asking her whether she accepted the charge. But as 
Mrs C didnt complain about it until after shed completed all the withdrawals shes 
complaining about, there are no screenshots available as to what would have been shown 
when Mrs C made the withdrawals.
I appreciate that Mrs C says that she did opt to pay in local currency, so she shouldnt have 
been charged any fees for using the ATM. Santanders terms and conditions say that it is 
often cheaper to pay in local currency and that if pounds sterling is selected there will be an 
exchange rate and a possible fee charged. The local Santander branch said that neither it 
nor the ATM owner charged that fee but speculated that the fee may have been charged by 
the card provider. And as it referred Mr C back to Santander UK, I can't see that there would 
be any point in contacting it again.
Mrs C says they weren't charged before. This may have something to do with the fact that 
their card provider had changed so there may have been a different process but I realise that 
that's just speculation. Whilst the card may be upgraded from time to time, Santander has 
advised that there was no error with the card that needed correcting. I think that the most 
likely explanation is that Mrs C charged her withdrawals to her own rather than local 
currency and as a result the ATM owner charged a fee for exchanging the currency.
As I'm persuaded that there was no error on Santander 's part and that it did not profit from 
any fee charged, I don't think that it was at fault here.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman