DRN-3035746
The complaint
The estate of Mrs W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim made 
under her accidental death insurance policy. 
The complaint has been brought by Mrs Ws son, Mr E, the administrator of her estate. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2003 Mrs W set up an accidental death insurance policy with Aviva which, including a 
loyalty bonus, provided £30,000 of cover.
Mrs W had a fall and was found on the floor on 26 December 2019. She was taken to 
hospital and sadly passed away two days later. Mr E submitted a claim under the policy as 
he considered his mother died as a result of an accidental fall.
Aviva didnt uphold the claim and Mr E complained about their decision. Avivas position 
didnt change and, in short, they said:
The policy terms require that the insured person must suffer an accident that directly 
results in their death.
The post mortem report mentions a fall but there isnt any medical evidence of a 
bodily injury being the cause of death or a contributary factor. This is supported by 
the death certificate which records the cause of death as:
o1a Multiorgan failure
o1b Escherichia coli septicaemia
o2 Decompensated alcoholic liver disease and rhabdomyolysis
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators but she thought Aviva had fairly 
declined the claim. She said the policy only pays out if the insureds death was as a direct 
result of an accident. And, in the opinion of the doctor who carried out the post mortem, the 
cause of death was due to multiorgan failure as a result of escherichia coli septicaemia. 
Along with decompensated alcoholic liver disease and rhabdomyolysis being noted as 
contributing factors.  Our investigator explained that, while the post mortem refers to Mrs W 
being laid on the floor for a long period of time which may have contributed to her death, it 
wasnt considered the sole reason. Because of this, there isnt any evidence to suggest 
Mrs W died as a direct result of the fall as other health issues were determined as the cause.
Mr E disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go on to explain the reasons for my decision, I want to assure Mr E that I dont 
underestimate his strength of feeling relating to what he considers were the effects of his 
mothers fall. I also appreciate Mrs Ws passing wouldve been a very difficult time for 
Mr E and his family. But, what I must consider is whether Aviva acted fairly  and in line with 
the policy terms  when considering the claim. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr E but I think they did and for similar reasons to that of our investigator, Ill explain why. 
The policy terms say:
What is covered
We will pay the benefit shown on your current policy schedule if, as direct result of an 
accident and independently of any other cause, an insured person dies within 12 
months of the accident as a direct result of the injuries sustained. 
An accident is defined as:
An accident is a single, unexpected, unforeseen and unintentional incident that 
happens after the start of this insurance and is not a symptom of disease or illness.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mrs W suffered a fall. This is supported by the post 
mortem as it explains that [Mrs W] was admitted to hospital following a fall and thought to 
have developed multi-organ failure secondary to sepsis of unknown origin. Instead, Aviva 
declined the claim as they say her death wasnt as a direct result of the fall  as per the 
above policy term requirement.
At which point, I think its relevant to note that the policy terms also say:
What is not covered
1. We will not pay any claim caused by:
Illness or disease unless this is a direct result of the accident;
Im aware that the post mortem refers to Mrs W laying on the floor for some time (and raised 
creatinine kinase level) being in keeping with rhabdomyolysis. And that this wouldve been a 
contributing factor to death as it wouldve increased the risk of kidney injury and 
development of multiorgan failure. However, it then goes on to say that, while this condition 
contributed to Mrs Ws death, its not related to the disease or condition causing it. 
Having carefully reviewed the post mortem, Im satisfied it confirms Mrs Ws cause of death 
to be multiorgan failure as a result of escherichia coli septicaemia. And that she had an 
increased risk of developing escherichia coli septicaemia due to decompensated alcoholic 
liver disease. There doesnt appear to be any reference that these illness or diseases which 
Mrs W suffered from were as a direct result of the fall (accident).  
I appreciate Mr E feels his mother would still be alive had it not been for the fall. But I dont 
think it is unreasonable for Aviva to rely on the medical information available when 
considering the claim. And, as it has been explained, the post mortem neither confirms or suggests Mrs Ws death was a direct result of the fall. I know this isnt the outcome Mr E is 
hoping for but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Aviva unfairly declined the claim.
On a final note, Im aware Mr E has alluded to getting further medical opinions from the 
coroner/mortician to support his view that the fall was the cause of death. If such opinion is 
obtained, then Mr E should provide it to Aviva for their consideration.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of 
Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman