DRN-2008728
 
The complaint
Mr C says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Money Boat provided to Mr C between August 
2018 and November 2019. Mr C borrowed amounts ranging between £400 and £600 to be 
repaid in four or six monthly instalments. The highest expected monthly repayments ranged 
between about £110 and £175. There was a gap of about 10 weeks between Mr C repaying 
loan two and taking out loan three. Otherwise, Mr C borrowed continuously and his loans 
didnt overlap. Loan four still has an amount outstanding. Money Boat offered to waive this 
as a gesture of goodwill, but Mr C was unhappy with that. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought none of the loans should have been 
given. Money Boat didnt reply to the adjudicators view, and so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Money Boat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Money Boat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Money Boat was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Money Boat asked Mr C for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr C said his monthly income was between £2,700 and £3,000. He said his 
monthly expenditure let him with a disposable income of at least £1,600. 
As our adjudicator explained, Money Boats checks for loan one would most likely have 
shown that Mr C was having problems managing his money. This was because the credit 
report it provided before loan one was approved showed:
Mr C had outstanding balances on 17 active accounts totalling £34,293 with loans 
and instalment loans accounting for £17,024, which was significant;
The balance to limit ratio was 99%, so Mr C wasnt suitable for further borrowing;
Mr C had opened 14 accounts in the previous six months and there had been 13 
credit searches in the past three months;
 
And I think if Money Boat had made further checks on Mr Cs finances, such as by looking at 
his bank statements, it would have seen that Mr C had borrowed £4,780 from other short-
term lenders in the month before his loan.  So I think Money Boat should have realised that 
Mr C would be unable to sustainably repay loan one, or any subsequent loans. And so I 
think it was wrong to have provided them.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr C, I think Money Boat should:
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on loans one to four, offset this against any 
principal still outstanding for loan four and pay the remainder to Mr C;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans one to four from Mr Cs credit file;
  HM Revenue & Customs requires Money Boat to take off tax from this interest. Money 
Boat must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. I 
require Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) to pay Mr C 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman