DRN-2263463
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Fairmead Insurance Limited t/a Legal & General treated them 
unfairly by telling them their home insurance claim for storm damage to their roof was 
accepted and then changing its mind and telling them it was declined.
What happened
One night towards the start of February 2020 there was a storm and Mr and Mrs H noticed 
water was leaking into their house. They contacted the home emergency insurer under their 
policy who arranged for an emergency repair to be undertaken. Mrs H thought that the home 
emergency insurer would contact Fairmead on her behalf but that never happened. Towards 
the end of February 2020, Mr and Mrs H contacted Fairmead directly to make a claim for 
storm damage to their roof. 
Fairmead sent a surveyor out to inspect the damage. He confirmed the leak and the damage 
to the roof, and internally, was the result of storm damage and that the claim was covered. 
He calculated the repair cost and made Mrs H a cash offer there and then which she 
accepted. 
Two days later Fairmead contacted Mr and Mrs H to say that it had reviewed the surveyors 
report, the photographs of the damage and an internet satellite map and had decided not to 
pay the claim for damage to the roof; it said it would pay for the internal damage. Mr and Mrs 
complained. They said the surveyor had told them the lead around the chimney and the 
skylight had been damaged in the storm and that the claim would be paid so they wanted it 
honoured.  
Fairmead looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. It said there had been a storm on the night 
the damage appeared. It also said the damage reported was of the type a storm could 
cause. But, it said, upon review, the damage to the roof had been highlighted by, not caused 
by, the storm. It said the satellite images from 2014 showed the roof was suffering from age 
related deterioration. So, it said the decision to decline the claim had been correct. But it 
accepted that Mr and Mrs H had received less than the desired level of service for which it 
offered them compensation of £50. 
Unhappy with the outcome of their complaint to Fairmead, Mr and Mrs H complained to this 
service. Our investigator looked into their complaint but thought that Fairmead had treated 
Mr and Mrs H unfairly by declining their claim. So, she didnt recommend that the complaint 
was upheld. 
The complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Fairmeads decision to decline Mr and Mr Hs claim was a fair one. 
I think it was and Ill explain why. 
This service has a well-established approach to the consideration of complaints about the 
decision to decline a claim for storm damage. We ask three questions. If the answer to any 
of the questions is no then we say its not unfair to decline the claim. 
The first question is, were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?. Ive 
seen the weather report from the night the damage occurred and Im satisfied that the 
conditions met the definition of a storm as set out by Fairmead in its policy terms (wind 
speeds of at least 47mph accompanied by rain, hail or snow). So, the answer to the first 
question is yes. 
Next we ask whether the reported damage is consistent with the type of damage we expect 
a storm could cause. Insofar as storms cause damage it can be of the type reported by Mr 
and Mrs H. So, the answer to the second question is also yes.
The third question we ask is were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
Unfortunately, having reviewed the available evidence, I dont think they were. So, I think the 
answer to this question must be no. Ive seen the photographs taken by the surveyor along 
with his comments to Fairmead. The photographs show the roof was indeed suffering from 
age related deterioration  the lead flashing around the chimney was missing in places and 
lifting in others; the mortar bedding around some of the ridge tiles was crumbling and eroded 
in places; some of the ridge tiles and some of the roof tiles had slipped out of position and 
others had cracked. 
A well-maintained roof should be able to withstand a storm of the nature of the one that 
occurred on the night in question. Lead flashing should not disappear and lift if it has been 
well maintained. And a storm shouldnt cause mortar to crumble. I can also see that the roof 
had been patch repaired in a number of places previously so its not unreasonable to think it 
was reaching the end of its lifespan and needed replacing (which I understand Mr and Mrs H 
have now had done). So, I dont think the damage evident in the photographs couldve been 
caused by the storm itself. I think it was historic in nature and was highlighted by the storm. 
So, I dont think Fairmead unfairly declined Mr and Mrs Hs claim for damage caused by 
storm. 
I do appreciate that it must have been very disappointing to Mr and Mrs H to be told on site 
by the surveyor that their claim was covered and to be offered a cash settlement there and 
then only to have the offer withdrawn 48-hours later. They undoubtedly suffered a loss of 
expectation that their claim would be paid. For the reasons Ive given, I dont think the claim 
was one that was covered by their policy but it must nevertheless have been frustrating to be 
told it would be paid only to have it withdrawn. 
It appears that Fairmeads surveyor made a mistake on site and should never have made 
the offer he did. Whilst Ive noted the dictaphone recordings of his visit, I cant fairly make 
Fairmead pay a claim it isnt liable for because its surveyor made a mistake. Mr and Mrs H 
are no worse off now than if Fairmead had communicated the correct claims decision to 
them at the outset. This was damage they were never covered by their policy for. What they 
have suffered is a loss of expectation for which they have been compensated. 
I can see that Fairmead has offered Mr and Mrs H compensation of £50 in respect of the 
poor service they received. I think thats fair and is in line with awards this service has made 
in similar circumstances. Indeed, if this complaint had passed across my desk without an award of compensation having already been made its unlikely Id have awarded any more 
than that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman