DRN-4008180
The complaint
Mr E has complained about West Bay Insurance Plcs decision to avoid his car insurance 
policy and refused to meet his claim. 
The complaint relates to the cancellation of the policy and the underwriting criteria terms set. 
So my decision is against the insurer, West Bay. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr E bought a car insurance policy with West Bay through a broker. In 
June 2022 West Bay received a claim from a Third party Insurer (TPI). They said Mr Es car 
had been involved in an incident with their insureds car. 
West Bay set up a claim and asked Mr E for his account of what happened. While 
investigating the claim, Mr E said that he was unemployed. But when he bought the policy, 
Mr E said he was a self-employed cobbler. As West Bay wouldnt have offered a policy to Mr 
E if it had known he was unemployed, it asked him to provide evidence of when this 
happened. 
Mr E didnt provide any evidence of his occupation being as described when he bought the 
policy. Mr E provided evidence to show receipt of universal credit before he bought the 
policy in November 2021. 
So in the absence of any evidence to show when Mr Es occupation had changed to 
unemployed, West Bay cancelled the policy. This means it didnt provide cover in the event 
of a successful third party claim. 
Mr E complained about West Bays decision. He was unhappy that it had recorded a 
cancellation against his record - as having to declare it to future insurers had a negative 
impact on the premium he paid. But West Bay said it had acted correctly based on what Mr 
E told it and the terms of the policy. 
Mr E remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted West Bay to 
remove the cancellation record. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. As West Bay didnt 
receive the information it reasonably requested from Mr E to validate the policy, he thought it 
had acted fairly. West Bay had shown us that it wouldnt have offered cover if it had known 
Mr E was unemployed when he bought the policy. So he said its decision to cancel the 
policy was fair. 
Mr E didnt agree. So he wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E told us he has difficulty reading and writing. He said he believes West Bay hasnt 
treated him fairly as it wrote to him to ask for occupation evidence - and when it cancelled 
his policy. 
Ive checked West Bays notes and these show there were a number of telephone 
conversations between Mr E and West Bay. During these calls the request for occupation 
evidence and the consequence of not being able to provide it were discussed. From its 
notes, Mr E was fully aware that his policy would be cancelled if he couldnt provide 
evidence to show when he became unemployed. 
So I dont think West Bay treated Mr E unfairly. I think it communicated with him in a way 
that meant he was aware of what it needed and what would happen if it didnt receive the 
information from him. 
From what Ive seen, I think West Bay was entitled to ask for reasonable evidence to support 
the change in occupation Mr E told it about: to show when he became unemployed. This is a 
requirement of all West Bay policyholders under the terms of the policy. Because Mr E didnt 
provide any, I think it correctly cancelled his policy. West Bay has provided its underwriting 
criteria to this service to show it wouldnt have offered Mr E a policy if he had told it he was 
unemployed when he applied for the policy. 
Mr E has raised a new complaint about the premium refund. As the Investigator explained, 
Mr E will need to raise this first with West Bay so that it has an opportunity to respond. 
I understand Mr E will be very disappointed with my decision. But for the reasons Ive given 
above, Im not asking West Bay to remove a record of the cancellation of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman