DRN-2223820
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE unfairly cancelled 
her car insurance policy.   
What happened
Mrs O claimed on her policy for damage to her car. During the course of the claim Aioi did 
some checks on Mrs Os policy and requested some documents from her and asked for 
them within the next seven days and said it would cancel her policy it they werent received. 
As Aioi didnt receive the documents within seven days it cancelled Mrs Os policy.  
Mrs O didnt think this was fair and complained as shed provided the documents requested 
within a couple of days of the time limit given. She also said she hadnt received the e-mail 
and at the time the country was just going into its first national lockdown because of the 
Covid-19 Pandemic. Mrs O said shed been affected by this and hadnt been able to respond 
within seven days because of it. 
Aioi reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it had requested the documents by 
post and e-mail and the time limit for notice for them to cancel her policy was in line with the 
policies terms and conditions. Aioi said as a gesture of goodwill it would remove the 
cancellation marker from her file, but as shed had a claim it retained the policy premium. As 
Mrs O didnt think this was fair so she brought her complaint here. 
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Os complaint and recommended it was upheld. She found 
that Aioi had requested the documents at the same time as issuing the seven-day notice of 
cancellation. She also found that Mrs O had provided the information asked for the day after 
the policy was cancelled. Because of this she didnt think Aioi had acted in a fair and 
reasonable way when taking into account the Covid-19 Pandemic had just hit. She 
recommended Aioi remove the cancellation marker from any internal or external databases, 
pay Mrs O for the additional nine months insurance shed paid when she re-insured her car, 
as this is what wouldnt have need to pay if Aioi hadnt cancelled her policy and asked Aioi to 
pay £500 to compensate Mrs O for the distress and inconvenience shed suffered. 
Aioi didnt agree, it said Mrs O hadnt made them aware of having difficulties providing the 
information and that it had cancelled the policy in line with the terms and conditions. Aioi also 
said it thought Mrs O hadnt provided accurate information when she bought the policy. Our 
investigator responded and said the information provided when the policy was purchased 
was a new issue and if Aioi was now raising it would need to give reasons for it. She also 
said she didnt think Aiois reasons changed her view. Aioi then didnt respond to our 
investigator. 
As Aioi initially didnt agree and then didnt respond the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Os policy say Aioi may cancel her policy by writing to her 
and allowing seven days notice. The terms and conditions also provide a list of reasons for 
cancelling the policy and one of them say: failure to provide requested documents (proof of 
your No Claim Discount etc.) Im satisfied this allows Aioi to cancel Mrs Os policy by 
providing seven days notice if she hasnt provided documents its requested. But Im not 
persuaded it was fair and reasonable to do so in this particular case. 
I say this because at the time the request for the documents was sent the notice of 
cancellation was also sent. This means Mrs O only had seven days to provide these 
documents before her policy was cancelled. I can see Aioi sent the request via letter, e-mail 
and also sent a text but this doesnt change that Mrs O only had seven days to respond. And 
considering that when the request was sent the country had just been put into its first 
national lockdown because of the Covid-19 Pandemic, everyone was needing to adjust to 
this and how it impacted them. Mrs O has also explained that a family member had recently 
passed away because of Covid-19 and this is the reason she wasnt able to respond in time. 
Taking this all into account and that Mrs O only missed the deadline by a day Im not 
satisfied Aioi has treated Mrs O in a fair and reasonable way. 
Ive therefore looked at the impact this has had on Mrs O. Shes had the additional stress 
and worry of her policy being cancelled while dealing with a family bereavement. She said 
she was also unable to get insurance elsewhere because of the cancellation marker and had 
to rely on lifts and public transport. When she was able to afford a policy again, she had to 
pay a higher premium because of the claim on her previous policy. 
Mrs Os policy, like most policies Ive seen allow Aioi to keep the premium if a claim has 
been made. But as Aioi shouldnt have cancelled her insurance when it did, Mrs O has now 
paid for nine months on another policy at a higher rate because of Aioi. It follows that the fair 
and reasonable resolution is for Aioi to compensate Mrs O for this. Mrs O has paid 
£1,386.16 for a 12-month policy, Aioi therefore need to pay 75% of this which is £1039.62. It 
should also add 8% simple interest per year to this amount from the date Mrs O paid for the 
new policy until the date it makes payment to compensate her for not having the money. 
Aioi should also compensate Mrs O for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience she 
suffered by having her policy cancelled at a difficult time and for the alternate travel 
arrangements she needed to make. It should pay her £500 compensation for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Im satisfied though that removing the cancellation 
marker from Mrs Os record was fair and reasonable, so if Aioi hasnt done so it should 
ensure it is removed from any internal or external databases.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is I uphold this complaint Aioi Nissay 
Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE Dowa needs to:
1. Pay Mrs O £1,039.62 for the additional insurance she didnt need to pay. Plus 8% 
simple interest per year on this amount from the date she paid for the new policy until 
the date it pays the settlement. 
2. Pay Mrs O £500 for distress and inconvenience
3. Remove the cancellation marker from any internal or external databases
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman