DRN-4358691
The complaint
Miss S complains Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna irresponsibly provided 
her with an unaffordable personal loan. 
At the time Miss S was approved with this credit the business was known as Hitachi Capital 
(UK) PLC trading as Hitachi Personal Finance. However, within my decision Ive referred to it 
by its current name of Novuna.
What happened
Novuna approved Miss S with a loan of £12,000 over a term of 68 months in January 2019. 
The monthly repayments were around £230 and the loan had a total repayable value of 
around £15,500.
Miss S complained to Novuna in November 2022. She said had it completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks it would have identified this loan wasnt affordable for her. She 
therefore said Novuna hadnt made a fair lending decision and had irresponsibly provided 
her with the loan.  
Novuna didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. It said its checks were reasonable and 
proportionate and that it went on to make a fair lending decision when providing the loan. 
Miss S referred her complaint to our service following Novunas final response. Our 
investigator reviewed the details and didnt uphold it. She didnt consider the checks Novuna 
completed were fair and reasonable; but on review of the information it would have likely 
obtained had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks, she felt it would have 
reasonably reached the same decision to lend.
Miss S didnt accept our investigators assessment. She provided a lot of detail within her 
response to support her argument that this loan shouldnt have been provided. This included 
evidence of high running account credit utilisation, making minimum payments toward some 
exiting credit accounts, making late payments in some months and incurring late payment 
fees, and that her income wasnt at the level Novuna had used when conducting its 
affordability checks, as well as other additional points.
Our investigator reviewed the details Miss S provided and explained why she still considered 
Novuna had made a fair lending decision when providing this loan. 
Miss S asked for an ombudsmans decision so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. I appreciate this will be disappointing to Miss S as I understand her strength of 
feeling on the matter. However, I hope my reasoning below helps Miss S understand why Im 
not directing Novuna to take any further action in resolution of her complaint.  
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website; and our investigator referenced this within her assessment so both Miss S and 
Novuna are aware of this.
Novuna needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was responsibly 
lent. The relevant rules, regulations, and guidance at the time of Novunas lending decision 
required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to 
assess Miss Ss ability to afford the credit being provided and repay it sustainably, without 
causing her financial difficulties or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration, and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Novuna to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. 
Novuna has said it obtained Miss Ss declared income and verified it using credit reference 
agency data. It also says it used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to understand 
Miss Ss monthly non-discretionary expenditure, and that it completed a credit check to 
identify Miss Ss existing credit commitments and credit history. 
It says it was satisfied, based on the information it obtained, that these checks were 
proportionate and that it went on to make a fair lending decision when providing this loan.
Ive carefully considered Novunas argument and having done so, Im not persuaded its 
checks were reasonable and proportionate in this instance. But, having considered what it 
would likely have identified had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks, I 
consider it would have reasonably still reached the same decision to lend. 
I say this because Miss S declared within her application that she had a salary of £28,000 
per year. Novuna obtained information via credit reference agency checks that Miss Ss 
income was around £25,000; and it used this lower amount in its affordability calculations. It 
also reviewed Miss Ss credit file and identified around £10,400 of outstanding debt at the 
time across a number of running credit accounts. It identified Miss Ss existing credit 
commitments had monthly repayments totalling around £430. 
Novuna has said it used ONS data to understand Miss Ss non-discretionary expenditure, 
but it hasnt provided details of these figures. Instead, it has said its calculations showed 
Miss S would have been left with around £1,300 disposable income per month to cover her 
non-discretionary costs and repayments to this loan of around £230. And it has said that it 
considered this left Miss S with a reasonable level of funds to cover these costs and any 
additional costs that may have occurred.
The total repayable value of this loan was a relatively sizeable amount, and Novuna was 
tying Miss S into a significant term. So, I consider it would have been proportionate for 
Novuna to have looked to understand Miss Ss expenditure, as well as to have verified her 
income and complete a credit check as it did. I consider this is especially the case as Miss S 
appears to have declared within her application that she was a homeowner with a mortgage 
in her name, but the credit check Novuna obtained didnt identify a mortgage. It appears Novuna therefore didnt take into account any monthly amount to cover housing costs, which 
is contradictory to the information it had. 
Novuna could have looked to obtain details about Miss Ss monthly non-discretionary 
expenditure by any means it saw fit. Miss S has provided our service with her bank 
statements covering the months leading up to the loan. In the absence of any other 
contradictory information, I consider these provide me with a reasonable level of information 
to understand what Novuna would likely have identified at the time of this loan, had it 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks.
Before setting out my review of Miss Ss bank statements Ive considered the evidence shes 
presented in support of her arguments around late payments to her existing credit cards in 
the years before this loan. Having reviewed the evidence, Ive seen there were a number of 
late payments to her credit cards across 2016, 2017 and 2018. The information Miss S has 
provided appears to show the last late payment charge was incurred on these credit cards in 
February 2018, around a year before this loan. 
However, on review of the evidence Ive seen Miss S makes the required minimum 
payments within a number of days of the payment due dates, therefore bringing these 
accounts back in line well within a month of the payment being due. This means that these 
late payments wouldnt generally be recorded with credit reference agencies; and Miss Ss 
credit file confirms this is the case. So, it therefore follows Novuna wouldnt have had 
knowledge of these late payments available to it as part of its credit check.
There is however a late payment to one of Miss Ss mail order accounts in June 2018. But 
Miss S brought the account back in line the following month and while some running credit 
balances were increasing, the evidence suggests she had been managing all of her other 
credit accounts relatively well in the lead up to this lending. So, I dont consider the one late 
payment, or Miss Ss increased usage of her running credit facility limits, on their own to be 
reasons Novuna shouldnt have approved this loan as Miss S suggests. 
But I do consider these points, together with the contradictory information Ive set out above, 
as well as the relatively sizeable total value of this lending and term, ought reasonably to 
have led Novuna to complete more detailed checks to satisfy itself this loan was sustainably 
affordable for Miss S across its full term. So, Ive gone on to consider what these checks 
would likely have shown Novuna. 
Miss Ss statements across the three months leading up to this loan confirm that her income 
averaged around £1,620 per month. This is around £100 less than Novuna took into account 
as part of its checks.
Miss S has confirmed that she paid £400 per month towards her share of a mortgage and 
household bills which is evidenced within her statements. Ive seen payments towards her 
existing credit commitments which largely correspond with the amount Novuna took into 
account within its affordability checks. Taking into account Miss Ss other living costs as 
evidenced within her bank statements and from the testimony shes provided our service, I 
consider the monthly payments towards this loan appear sustainably affordable for her. 
I say this because after deducting payments towards Miss Ss mobile phone contract, union 
payments, a regular payment to another individual and what Miss S has said she paid for 
food each month, she is still left with a reasonable level of disposable income in the 
hundreds of pounds. Across the three months leading up to this loan this averages to be 
around £450.I consider this to be at a reasonable level for Miss S to afford to make the monthly payment 
towards this loan and still have a reasonable level of disposable income for additional living 
costs that she may incur. 
It therefore follows that Im satisfied had Novuna completed more detailed checks it would 
reasonably have reached the same decision to lend; and I therefore consider it made a fair 
lending decision when providing Miss S with this loan.
Miss S has told us that shes in financial difficulties and Im sorry to hear this. I would remind 
Novuna of its responsibilities to treat Miss S sympathetically and fairly in its contact with her 
and in its recovery of the outstanding debt.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint about Mitsubishi HC Capital 
UK Plc trading as Novuna, and I therefore dont require it to take any further action in 
resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman