DRN-2653092
Complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc registered markers against his name with a fraud 
prevention agency without justification.
Background
Mr A had an account with Santander which he used to operate his business. Hes told us his 
business provided software solutions to clients. The scope of these services looks to have 
been quite broad. As an example, hes said some clients were offered software that aimed to 
improve the performance of their computer. Hes also provided evidence showing an 
agreement with a client to carry out website maintenance.
In June 2018, Santander received a notification that funds paid into Mr As account were 
fraudulent. Santander carried out an investigation and was concerned by what it found. It 
identified a string of payments it had concerns about and asked Mr A to explain his 
entitlement to the funds. It also contacted those banks overseas that had sent these 
payments to him, although many have not responded.
Mr A told Santander that these payments were received in connection with services provided 
by his company. He submitted evidence of an email exchange relating to the website 
maintenance mentioned above. This email exchange related to one of the payments that 
concerned Santander, but not all of them. 
Overall, Santander wasnt satisfied with the explanation given by Mr A as to the origin of 
these funds.  It recorded markers against his name with fraud prevention agency Cifas. It 
told Mr A that the loading was due to multiple credits received into the account being 
confirmed as fraudulent by the sending bank. If the sending bank withdraws their current 
claims the decision regarding CIFAS can be reviewed again in the future.
Mr A was unhappy with what Santander had done and so he referred a complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an investigator who upheld it. The investigator thought that 
Santander hadnt done enough to justify the loading.
Santander disagreed with the outcome reached by the investigator. It pointed out that there 
were still several payments which Mr A hadnt been able to explain. It also pointed out 
several other concerns it had about the way Mr A operated his business. It noted that one of 
the invoices issued in connection with one of the services rendered by Mr As business 
appeared to have a different company name printed on it. Mr A was the sole director of a 
limited company duly registered with Companies House. But in that instance the payment 
appeared to have been made to a company with a similar name registered in India. Mr A has 
told us that the business operating out of India is a subcontractor to his business  and he 
sent us a copy of the formal outsourcing agreement reached between those two businesses. 
Santander was concerned that some of the funds that were paid into Mr As account were 
quickly sent to an international money transfer company. Mr A says this was because he 
needed to pay his counterparty in India. He said this was the most cost-effective way of 
transferring the money.
As Santander didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and reach a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question I must consider here is whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in 
loading markers with fraud prevention agencies. The National Fraud Database Principles set 
a high standard that a firm must meet if it wants to load adverse information against a 
customers name. It says that it on order to do so:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial
crime has been committed or attempted  [and]  The evidence must be clear, 
relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently report the conduct of 
the subject to the police.
The onus is on Santander to demonstrate that this standard has been met. Ive considered 
the evidence provided by both sides and Im not satisfied that its done so. 
In response to the investigators view, Santander has said that the reporting of fraud by the 
sending bank is enough to show an identified criminal offence has taken place. Im afraid I 
disagree. For two of the transactions, Mr A has provided evidence to show that its likely this 
allegation of fraud was driven by a dispute between Mr A and his customer.
For example, hes provided a copy of an email sent to his company in which a client says 
they are really frustrated with the lag your software has created in my computer. And the 
reporting of fraud by that clients bank came shortly after that email was sent. 
I accept hes not been able to provide similar evidence for each transaction that Santander 
has concerns about. Its clear that the way Mr A has organised his business has caused him 
some difficulties here. Using an outsourcing firm on a different continent has clearly led to 
inadequacies in terms of record keeping. But Mr A has been able to provide evidence 
suggesting that at least some of the transactions that have caused Santander concern relate 
to legitimate contracts he entered into with clients.
 
I cant reach a firm conclusion on the other transactions that Santander has highlighted. But 
the question I need to consider is whether Santander has met the standard I described 
above. Overall, I find that there is far too much doubt about whether these payments were 
fraudulent to justify Santanders actions in loading the fraud marker.
 
Final Decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Santander UK Plc should remove the fraud markers it registered with Cifas without delay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman