DRN-3808855
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC)) didnt 
complete enough affordability checks before approving his Safety Net facility. Had it done 
so, it wouldve realised that Mr W couldnt afford the repayments.
 
What happened
Mr W approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in August 2018. This was a running credit 
account where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. Mr W was not advanced a payday loan. 
Mr W was initially given a facility with a £300 credit limit. His limit was increased on a further 
three occasions with his final increase  taking the credit limit to £420 in February 2019. 
Mr W had some problems repaying his facility and SNC has told the Financial Ombudsman 
that as of October 2022 around £544 remains outstanding. 
Mr W referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service after SNC had considered 
it and concluded it was reasonable to provide the facility to him. 
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Ws complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried out before 
granting this facility were likely proportionate and showed that Mr W could afford to maintain 
his facility. 
The adjudicator also concluded that due to what SNC could see in the bank transaction data 
such as returned direct debit payments and making token payments towards his council tax 
meant it wasnt reasonable for it to have increased the credit limit in October 2018. This is 
the point the adjudicator upheld the complaint from. 
SNC agreed with the proposed outcome, and it made an offer to settle the complaint based 
on upholding the complaint from the credit limit increase which it says occurred on 
23 October 2018. SNC explained that as Mr W would still have an outstanding balance but 
this would be reduced to £232.30 once the refund, 8% simple interest and then tax deducted 
has been applied. 
 
The offer was put to Mr W, and he said he wasnt happy with the outcome. But no further 
comments were provided as to why. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
To start with, Mr W wasnt given a payday loan. He was provided with a credit facility where 
there was an expectation it would be repaid within a reasonable period of time. Interest is 
charged on any balance at 0.8% per day for the first 40 days following the drawdown. After 
the 40 days, a consumer will pay no further interest on that drawdown. 
Throughout the lifetime of a consumer having the facility SNC maintains read-only access to 
their bank statements, in order to allow it to monitor a consumers finances and to allow it to 
carry out ongoing affordability assessments. 
Finally, Mr Ws expected repayment would be calculated to be 5% of the amount due plus 
any interest, fees or charges. But a minimum amount of £20 would be expected to be paid. 
Therefore, when Mr Ws facility was approved for £300 SNC needed to satisfy itself that 
Mr W would be in a position to make the minimum repayment of £20, by carrying out a 
proportionate check. 
In this case, SNC had a fairly good idea of Mr Ws income and expenditure because it had 
read only access to his bank statements for the 90 days preceding the facility being granted. 
It then used an algorithm to establish what Mr Ws income and expenditure was, after 
completing this check, in this case, SNC was satisfied that Mr W could afford the minimum 
repayment towards the facility.  
SNC also carried out a credit search before the facility was granted. Ive considered the 
summary of results SNC has provided, and while it knew that Mr W had defaulted on at least 
one account within the previous 12 months  SNC says the fact he was making repayments 
to a debt collection agency shows that Mr W was making headway into repaying his 
defaulted accounts. 
In my view, there doesnt appear to have been anything in those results which wouldve led 
SNC to either decline the application or prompt it to have carried out further checks before 
the facility was approved. 
Having reviewed the bank transaction data in the 90 days leading up to the facility being 
granted, I agree with the adjudicator that based on what SNC saw it was just about 
reasonable to have initially given Mr W his credit facility. 
SNC had reviewed Mr Ws bank transaction data from the end of May 2018. And looking at 
the full months (June and July 2018) I can see Mr Ws monthly income is broadly in line with 
what SNC calculated it to be around £1,100. However, there are through the months a 
number of transfers into Mr Ws account from third parties. 
I can also see that Mr W had regular outgoings for things such as a telephone, television 
subscription service and food. Based on his monthly expenditure, it was reasonable for SNC 
to believe Mr W had sufficient funds to meet the repayments for his facility.  
However, there is some concerning information due to the number of debt collectors that 
Mr W is paying for what is likely historic debts. The bank transaction data shows Mr W was 
making payments to at least 3 different companies. But, as there werent any recent defaults, 
its entirely likely the payments to the third parties related to historic debts that Mr W was now 
repaying. 
Thinking, about everything else that I can see in the bank transaction data, I do think it was 
just about reasonable for the facility to be approved, as it seemed that Mr W would be in a 
position to afford to repay and service the facility within a reasonable period of time. Although I dont think SNC was wrong to have initially granted the facility, Ive gone on to 
consider how Mr W used the facility and what the bank transaction data showed SNC. But 
its worth bearing in mind that SNC accepted the adjudicators outcome to uphold the 
complaint from the October 2018. So, in this part of the decision, Ill be focusing on whether 
it was right or wrong to have allowed Mr W to use the account from its inception  August 
2018 until the point that SNC has already agreed to uphold from, 23 October 2018.  
At the time, and during the use of the facility, SNC was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The guidance and rules for credit providers has been laid out by the FCA in its 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). I think it reasonable to see what the FCA has said in 
CONC and how it applies to this case. 
CONC (6.7.2) SNC had to:
[A firm must] monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties
And CONC 1.3 outlines some examples of what financial difficulties (which, of course, 
would be intrinsically linked to, and at the heart of, any repayment difficulties) may look like 
 but CONC 1.3 makes it clear the list is not exhaustive. 
So CONC sets out that SNC was required to monitor Mr Ws use of the facility and then 
CONC 1.3 provides indications which could suggest that a customer was in financial 
difficulty.
In addition to this, SNC had a good indication of Mr Ws actual financial position, because 
throughout the time of him having the facility it had read-only access to his bank account. 
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Mr W to continue to use the facility, Ive 
considered whether there was any change to Mr Ws situation which could be visible in the 
bank transaction data SNC had access to. 
Initially, after the facility was approved, Mr Ws bank transaction data doesnt show too much 
of a change - he is still receiving a similar wage each month and there are still a number of 
credits and debits to third parties. Mr Ws outgoings remain broadly similar as well, for 
example he is still paying the debt collection agencies. 
However, Mr W starts to have a number of returned direct debits each month  and this is a 
sign according to CONC 1.3 of a customer likely experiencing financial difficulties. 
In addition, Mr W also starts to borrow from a high-cost loan provider  he borrowed £250 at 
the end of September 2018 and this loan would need repaying on top of the money that 
Mr W owed SNC as well as his other living monthly expenditure. 
Overall, looking at the bank statements, it does seem that Mr Ws financial position 
deteriorated, not that long after the facility was granted to him and I do agree, that the point 
at which the credit limit was increased in October 2018 was the point when SNC ought to 
have realised that Mr W was no longer in the position to repay and service the facility and 
that he was likely having problems managing his money. 
Therefore, as SNC has already agreed to do, I do think a fair and reasonable point for the 
complaint to be upheld is when the credit limit was increased on 23 October 2018. 
SNC has already accepted it was wrong to have increased Mr Ws credit limit in 
October 2018  and it has made an offer to settle the complaint from this point in time. For completeness, Ive outlined below what SNC has already agreed to do in order to put things 
right below. 
Putting things right
If the debt has been sold to a third party, SNC should, if it wishes, buy the debt back and 
then carry out the redress below. If it isnt able to or doesnt wish to buy the debt back then it 
needs to work with the third party to achieve the same results.
For completeness and in line with what SNC has already agreed to it, it shouldnt have 
allowed Mr W to use the credit facility from the credit limit increase on 23 October 2018. 
A) Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 
23 October 2018.
B) Treat all payments Mr W has made towards their account since 23 October 2018 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
C) If at any point Mr W wouldve been in credit on his account after considering the 
above, SNC will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is paid.
D) If there is an outstanding principal balance, then SNC can use any refunds calculated 
as part of C to repay this. If a balance remains after this then SNC should try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W. If SNC has previously written-off any 
principal, then it shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up only of principal it 
has already written-off.
E) SNC should remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mr Ws credit file 
from 23 October 2018.
It is likely an outstanding balance will remain due to SNC, and Id remind SNC of its 
obligation to treat Mr W fairly and with forbearance  if necessary. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint in part.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman