DRN-3774882
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial 
Services (Alphera). 
What happened
In July 2021, Mr M acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement from Alphera. 
The car was registered in September 2015, which means it was about seven years old and 
had travelled around 38,000 miles when it was supplied to Mr M. The cash price of the car 
was £42,700. Mr M made an advanced payment of £5,350, which included equity from a part 
exchange, so the total amount financed on this agreement was £37,350 payable over 49 
months.
Mr M says on the day the car was delivered he noticed there were warning lights displayed. 
Mr M said he returned the car to the dealer for repairs, but the car was returned to him with 
the same issues. Mr M said the car also came with no service history but that he was 
assured by the dealer theyd be able to get that for him.
In an email to the dealer dated in Aug 2021, Mr M detailed the following issues with the car 
when he received it back:
-Damaged paintwork that was agreed to be repaired was outstanding
-The service light was still on
-A ticking noise 
-No service booklet 
-No private plates made up
-No warranty information
-No floor mats 
Mr M reported the issues to the dealership and said they agreed to resolve them. However, 
Mr M placed a hold on any repairs as hed not received the full-service history.
In October 2021 Mr M complained to Alphera about the issues with the car, and 
subsequently about how Alphera had handled his complaint. Mr M said he wanted to reject 
the car for the constant issues and the poor customer service he received.
In January 2022 Alphera issued their final response to Mr Ms complaint. Alphera said the 
car was sold without a service history so it wouldnt be provided. They also said that Mr M 
should allow the dealership to repair any issues with the car and provide them with an 
invoice for the paintwork.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr M brought his complaint to our service for investigation. Mr 
M says he believed the car was to be sold with a full-service history and that the dealer was 
working towards getting it for him, which is not what was advised in Alpheras final response.
Having reviewed all the information provided, our investigator recommended that Mr Ms 
complaint should not be upheld. Our investigator said the dealer should have the right to 
inspect and repair the car, and there was no evidence the dealer had promised a full-service 
history would be provided.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view and has asked for his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
Mr M has since asked the dealer to repair the car but said they refused to deal with him 
because of the issues raised. Our investigator asked Alphera to consider covering the costs 
for Mr M to have the car repaired at a third-party garage. Alphera responded to say the 
dealer would be willing to inspect the car for the initial faults reported.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M raised concerns about the way Alphera have handled his complaint against them. 
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity in its own right. Nor is it one of the specified 
non-regulated activities that Im able to deal with under our compulsory jurisdiction (DISP 
Rule 2.3.1R). And so, Im unable to look into the specifics of this.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. Alphera is also the supplier of the goods under 
this agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. The CRA also 
explains the durability of goods is part of satisfactory quality. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that Alphera supplied Mr M with a used car that had travelled around 
38,000 miles. With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect 
the level of quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there 
may be signs of wear and tear due to its usage. Having said that, the car was priced at 
£42,700 which isnt insignificant. So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would 
expect it could be used free from any major issues for a reasonable period of time.From the information provided Ive not seen clear evidence that there are issues with the car.  
In an email to our investigator, dated 22 March 2022, Mr M said the issues with the car mats, 
the warranty and the plates were resolved. However, the remaining issues with the 
paintwork and the warning lights have yet to be investigated and confirmed. 
I acknowledge Mr M sent in photos of the warning lights and advised they were at times 
sporadic, however without a professional diagnosis, for example from a mechanic, Im not 
able to confirm that a problem exists. Likewise, Mr M sent in photos of the paintwork which 
appeared to be chipped or marked in places, however on a car thats travelled around 
38,000 miles, having small or minor marks or scuffs on the paintwork alone doesnt 
persuade me that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M. Without 
a professional inspection or opinion, Im not able to confirm the scale or depth of the marks 
to the paintwork. 
From the information on file, I can see that Mr M has been encouraged to bring the car into 
the dealer for them to inspect it and assess what issues are present. This includes the scope 
of any paintwork damage. I can see that thered been some dispute over the scope of 
repairs to the paintwork, however I think the dealers offer to have the car inspected is 
reasonable. Under the CRA, and in the circumstances of this complaint, I think its fair that 
the dealer is given the opportunity to inspect and repair any issues with the car in the first 
instance. 
Service history.
From the evidence provided, Im persuaded that Mr M was expecting to be provided with the 
service history of the car from the outset. Mr M said it impacted the value of the car, so he 
didnt want to have any works carried out on it without having the full history provided. Mr M 
said the car was advertised as being provided with a service history and that he received a 
voicemail from the dealer confirming they were looking to provide him with it.
Having considered all the information provided, Im satisfied that Alphera are not obliged to 
provide Mr M with a full-service history. 
I havent seen the original advert for the car; however, Mr M refers to the information on the 
dealers website which says, all vehicles with a proven history. I dont take this as meaning 
a full-service history. The website provides context that their cars are not sourced from 
auction but bought with the knowledge of their ownership history. This is supported by what 
the dealer told our investigator during a phone call. In addition, Alpheras customer notes 
state the car doesnt have a service history and wasnt advertised as having one.
Having listened to the voicemail recording provided by Mr M, which was left by the dealer, 
the dealer said that they were sorting the history out. Its not made clear during the call 
which aspect of the cars history they were trying to source; for example, whether it was the 
full-service history, repair history or record of ownership. On 4 July 2022 Alphera sent our 
investigator a copy of a previous service which they said included work they did prior to 
delivering the car to Mr M.
All things considered, although I can see Mr M expected to receive the full service history 
when he was supplied the car, Ive not seen any evidence that this was part of the contract 
or promised to him as part of the sale. So, Im satisfied that in the circumstances, Alphera is 
not obliged to provide Mr M with the cars service history.
As Im unable to say whether the car is of satisfactory quality and as I dont think Alphera are 
obliged to provide a full-service history to Mr M, I wont be instructing Alphera to do anything in relation to this complaint. However, Mr M may decide on reflection to allow the dealer the 
opportunity to inspect the car for faults, assess the paintwork, and agree a way forward.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as ALPHERA Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman