DRN-4249184
The complaint
Mr B and Ms V complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked access to their account, which 
they needed to pay rent and for a house.
What happened
Mr B and Ms V bank with HSBC. In June 2021 they discovered HSBC had applied a block to 
their account, preventing any transactions taking place. The bank asked for information 
about the credits into the account  and Mr B and Ms V supplied them with information about 
income from student loans, and HMRC.
But the account remained blocked. Ms V raised a complaint  but HSBC responded to say 
they periodically conduct reviews of accounts. They apologised for the inconvenience but 
could not provide a timescale on how long the review would take. They did say any salary or 
benefits could be withdrawn if they attended branch with photo ID.
Unhappy with this Mr B and Ms V referred their complaint to our service. HSBC unblocked 
the account in December 2021. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and 
thought it should be upheld in part. They said HSBC had legal and regulatory obligations to 
fulfil, and in this case, HSBC had acted in line with those obligations. She felt there was a 
delay in releasing the account, but most of this was down to a delay in response from 
HMRC. But she felt HSBC could have contacted the student finance company sooner, which 
would have led to the release of these funds earlier. She suggested HSBC pay 8% simple 
interest on the student finance funds for the period of the block, along with £100 
compensation for the inconvenience.
Ms V didnt accept this as an outcome, saying that the compensation doesnt reflect the 
distress caused at having to visit the branch to withdraw funds.
The investigator later revised their opinion  saying that by the time the account had been 
blocked the funds from the student finance had been used up. So, there was no balance to 
withdraw, or an amount to award 8% interest on. She decided she had no basis to award the 
8% interest, or the £100 compensation.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was passed to me to decide.
The investigator is right to point out that HSBC have legal and regulatory obligations to fulfil 
when providing accounts. Part of this includes monitoring accounts and understanding how 
these accounts are being used. This can mean, on occasion, the bank may need to ask for 
information about the source of funds in the account. There is provision for this in the terms 
of Mr B and Ms Vs account. It isnt unreasonable in itself for HSBC to have asked them for 
further information about the payments into the account, including those from HMRC and for 
student loans.
It also isnt unreasonable for HSBC to block an account while it is under review. Again, there 
is provision for this in the terms of the account. HSBC did allow certain credits, such as 
wages to be taken in branch. I appreciate what Ms V has told us about how inconvenient it 
was to travel to branch, and I sympathise with the situation she was in. But I dont see that 
HSBC have done anything wrong by applying the block. Ive also considered what shes said 
about having poor experiences in the branch, but Ive not seen any further evidence to 
support this. But I accept this would be a frustrating experience for her.
Having reviewed the statements Im satisfied that at the time the account was blocked the 
funds from the student loans had either been spent or transferred to a saving account which 
continued to earn interest through the period of the block. So, I cant say Ms V or Mr B lost 
the use of those funds during the block. I also understand they were able to open accounts 
elsewhere, albeit after several weeks.
Once HSBC received further information from Mr B and Ms V about the credits, they went to 
check with the respective source of funds. In this case there seems to have taken longer 
than I think is reasonable for HSBC to enquire about the funds with HMRC  about two 
months. I note that HMRC themselves didnt respond until December 2021  so the long 
delay in removing the block isnt down to the actions of HSBC. But Ive not seen anything to 
suggest HSBC were being proactive in following this up, which is what Id generally expect to 
see. I cant say with any degree of certainty that this will have prompted a response from 
HMRC sooner, or that the account would likely have been unblocked earlier. But I do think 
this delay was unfair to Mr B and Ms V.
One HSBC did receive a response the block was removed promptly, and I can see from the 
statements Mr B and Ms V made use of the account.
Overall, while I accept Mr B and Ms V will have found this to be a difficult and frustrating 
experience, I cant say HSBC were solely responsible for the long delays before they had 
access to their account again. But I accept that HSBC delayed matters initially, which will 
have caused additional inconvenience. On that basis Id ask them to pay Mr B and Ms V 
£100 compensation.
HSBC confirmed they had nothing further to add. Ms V responded to say that they couldnt 
make use of the rest of the money in the accounts, including the savings account. She felt 
she should receive 8% interest on the full amount held with HSBC.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain satisfied with the conclusions reached in the provisional decision. 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for HSBC to block Mr B and Ms Vs accounts while they 
carried out a review, in line with their legal and regulatory requirements. I do agree this 
review went on too long, but from Ive seen this isnt solely down to the actions of HSBC.
HSBC certainly could have been quicker in sending off their requests for information to 
HMRC and student finance. But the subsequent delays are due to a lack of response. I 
appreciate this would have made things more difficult for Mr B and Ms V, but I cant see this 
was solely down to the actions of HSBC. As such, I can only reasonably award 
compensation for the errors I feel they made in handling this block  which are the delays in 
requesting information, and not being proactive in chasing a response.
Ive considered what Ms V has said about the other sources of income on the account  but I 
can also see from the statements that the wages paid into the current account were 
withdrawn. There would be no interest due on these as they had access to them.The funds in the savings account continued to be paid interest at the agreed account rate. 
Funds are usually held in a savings account when theyre not needed to meet day-to-day 
costs or arent expected to be made use of imminently. And in this case Mr B and Ms V 
havent shown they needed the funds in the savings account for any specific purpose in the 
time the account was blocked. And in any event, Ive found the block of the accounts to be 
reasonable at the time. So, therefore I dont see it reasonable to ask HSBC to pay 8% 
interest on the funds held.
That being said, I remain satisfied that HSBC could have been more proactive while the 
block was applied, and I can see how this will have increased the inconvenience to Mr B and 
Ms V. For this reason, Im satisfied that they should pay Mr B and Ms V £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC Bank UK Plc must pay Mr B and Ms V £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms V to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman