DRN-1596142
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that Carole Nash Insurance Consultants Ltd didnt inform him that the 
motorcycle insurance policy he bought did not cover bikes less than 10 years old. 
What happened
Mr B bought his policy directly from Carole Nash online. He was insuring a motorcycle which 
was over 10 years old. Approximately half-way through the insured period he enquired about 
changing the motorcycle on cover. The new motorcycle he was looking to insure was less 
than 10 years old. He was told this wasnt possible under the current policy, but he could 
cancel it and take out a new one. 
Mr B was unhappy to learn this would impact his no claims discount entitlement, as his 
progress towards the next year would need to start again. Mr B felt this was unfair, as had 
he known about the age restrictions when first buying the policy, he would have taken out 
insurance elsewhere. He said he regularly changes motorcycles during the year, so always 
needed a policy with some flexibility.   
Carole Nash didnt agree the policy had been mis-sold. It said if Mr B had specific 
requirements about changing motorcycles mid-term he could have called them to discuss his 
future needs. Had he done so, he would have found out about the policy limits. It agreed that 
there had been some customer service failures during the complaint, and so offered £75 for 
any trouble and upset caused. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought Carole Nash had acted fairly. He felt 
that it couldnt be expected to explain all the insurers requirements to Mr B at the start of 
cover. He also felt that as Mr B hadnt needed to change the bike until around halfway 
through the policy, it was likely that even if he had known about the limitations, he would still 
have opted to proceed with the most competitively priced option. He felt the compensation 
offered was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Carole Nash was required, among other things, to take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr 
B only bought a policy under which he is eligible to claim benefits. And when proposing such 
a contract of insurance, ensure its consistent with his insurance demands and needs. 
Theres no dispute taken that Mr B was eligible to claim benefits under the policy for the 
motorcycle hed ensured. And its clear that Carole Nash wasnt made aware that Mr B may 
change his vehicle mid-term. 
The documents sent to Mr B explain the policy coverage and its apparent that neither the 
terms and conditions nor the insurance product information document say motorcycles under 10 years old arent covered. The point here though is that the bike Mr B insured was more 
than 10 years and so was fully covered. 
Im satisfied that Carole Nash sold a policy that Mr B was eligible to claim benefits and that it 
met his demands and needs as given during the online process. 
The issue here is that its the insurer that limits the age of a vehicle to be insured under a 
policy. But thats an issue of underwriting and not something Id necessarily expect Carole 
Nash to be aware of or be able to explain at the point of sale, unless it was specifically 
brought to its attention by Mr B. Mr B sought cover for a specified vehicle, and he got 
appropriate cover. Its not uncommon for insurers to exclude specific makes or models within 
a vehicle make. If Mr B had expressed to Carole Nash that he changes his bike regularly 
throughout a year, then maybe that would put Carole Nash on notice to take additional steps 
to ensure the policy met his insurance demands and needs.  
Carole Nash offered to arrange a new policy for Mr B, which involved cancelling the original 
one, incurring an administration fee and losing the progress towards no claims discount 
entitlement. This was understandably frustrating for Mr B, but Im not satisfied Carole Nash 
did anything wrong.
The wording is clear about policy changes mid-term that it asks a customer to contact Carole 
Nash immediately if any of the policy details change. Mr B says if hed known there was an 
age restriction on a vehicle insured on the policy, he would have looked for cover elsewhere. 
He may have done but on the information he gave Carole Nash Im not persuaded it needed 
to check the insurers underwriting criteria for every conceivable mid-term change. 
Carole Nash offered £75 for customer service issues experienced when Mr B made his 
complaint. This included a dropped call and a lack of call back, which meant Mr B had to do 
some chasing. Looking at what happened, I think £75 is reasonable in the circumstances to 
reflect the impact these issues had on Mr B. 
My final decision
Carole Nash has made an offer to pay £75. I conclude that such an offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Carole Nash Consultants Ltd should 
pay Mr B £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman