DRN-3250159
The complaint
Mr C complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined his claim following the theft of 
his car. 
What happened
Mr C had a motor insurance policy with UKI. He was employed to deliver prescription 
medication, using his own car, to local customers. At the end of January 2021 Mr C was 
making a delivery and parked his car across the road from a customers home. Mr C left the 
car keys in the car, went to the customers home, and unfortunately his car was stolen. So 
Mr C submitted a claim to UKI. 
UKI turned down the claim. It relied on a term in the policy that said cover wouldnt be 
provided if the car keys were inside the car or it was unlocked at the point in time it was 
stolen. Mr C was unhappy and so complained to UKI. 
UKI responded and didnt change its claims decision. It said Mr C had demonstrated, by 
saying there are times when he makes sure he locks his car and takes the keys with him, 
that he was aware of the risks both of his job and leaving the car unlocked with the keys 
inside. It said there was a significant distance between Mr C and his car when it was stolen, 
which was parked on the opposite side of the road to the property he was delivering to. 
Mr C then brought his complaint to this service. He said UKI didnt wait until it received the 
police report about the incident before deciding to decline the claim, and so he didnt think 
the circumstances of the theft, including whether he was targeted, were properly taken into 
consideration.  
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said it was fair for UKI to apply the 
exclusion given that the car was unattended while the keys were still in it. Our Investigator 
looked at whether there was evidence to show Mr Cs car might have been stolen regardless 
of the precautions taken but concluded there was no evidence this was the case. 
Mr C didnt agree with what our Investigator said and so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to note that, broadly speaking, most insurance contracts will contain 
terms that say if consumers dont take reasonable steps to prevent or limit a loss from 
occurring then a claim might only be partially paid or even turned down. In the case of car 
insurance policies, its not unusual for insurers to require consumers to take reasonable 
steps to protect their car from theft. This often means that consumers are required to make 
sure car keys arent left in the car and the car isnt left unlocked. If a consumer doesnt take 
precautions such as these then a claim might not be paid. 
The term UKI relied on was just such a term. It said:  
We will not pay a claim if your car is: 
left unlocked;
left with keys or key fobs in, on, or attached;
left with the engine running;
left with a window or roof open.
Ive first of all looked at whether this term was placed prominently enough in the policy that 
Mr C ought to have been aware that if his keys were left in the car and it was left unlocked, 
then it was unlikely a claim would not be paid. Its important that a term that requires a 
consumer to carry out a task in order for cover to apply should be prominently placed in the 
policy booklet. 
Having looked at the policy terms, I can see that one of the FAQs (frequently asked 
questions) on the second page of the policy poses the question  Am I covered if I leave my 
car unlocked or the keys in the car? This question is then answered on the following page, 
where the term outlined above is listed. So I think UKI did enough to ensure the above term 
was prominently placed in the policy. 
Looking at whether UKI acted fairly, I can see that Mr Cs car was left unlocked with the keys 
inside. It was parked on the opposite side of the road from the house he was delivering 
goods to, which meant the car was out of his sight while the delivery was being made. I 
appreciate what Mr C said about why he sometimes left the car unlocked, namely that there 
were times when he needed to carry multiple items and it could be tricky to deal with 
handling the deliveries and locking his car. But I dont think circumstances such as these 
lessen Mr Cs responsibility to ensure he properly secures his car when hes not in or near it. 
Im satisfied that UKI has fairly applied the exclusion in this case. 
I know Mr C wanted UKI to consider whether he had been targeted by the thieves because 
of his job, and whether it was the case that they were going to steal his car regardless of 
what precautions he took. I can see that UKI, in their claim notes, said there were no 
mitigating circumstances in relation to the theft that might have led them to a different 
conclusion here. Its clear the police have their suspicions about whether Mr C was targeted, 
but I think its fair to say these are speculative. Mr Cs car has never been recovered and the 
thieves havent been caught. So I think UKI acted fairly when it decided there werent any 
mitigating circumstances here. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mr C. Theres no doubt hes been placed in a difficult 
situation following the theft of his car. While I understand he feels strongly that he shouldnt 
have to suffer a loss here, I could only ask UKI to cover the loss and pay the claim if I 
thought it had acted unfairly when it applied the exclusion and declined the claim. But Im 
satisfied it didnt. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman