DRN-3819839
The complaint
Mr K complains that Trading 212 UK Limited failed to promptly action a sale order which 
prevented him from selling shares he held in his share dealing account as quickly as he 
hoped. He says this resulted in him suffering a financial loss when the sale was executed.
What happened
Mr K holds a Trading 212 dealing account which he operates via an application (app') on his 
smartphone and he uses the service on an execution only basis to buy and sell shares. 
In July 2022, Mr K held shares in a US based business Ill call S, which hed bought that 
day when he saw the share price rising. After successfully carrying out some smaller trades, 
when he felt the time was right, Mr K gave an instruction to sell his S shareholding. His 
instruction was actioned as a market sell and Trading 212 was required to sell at the best 
market price available. At this point, Mr K says the Trading 212 system didnt allow him to 
sell his S shares  although he was still able to buy S shares.
There is some lack of clarity over exact timings, but its not in dispute that in-between Mr K 
inputting his final selling instruction and the trade being executed, falls in the S share price 
resulted in Mr Ks shares being sold at a much lower price than he had seen on 
Trading 212s platform at the time he instructed the sale. 
When he complained to Trading 212 about the resulting investment loss hed suffered, it 
didnt agree it had done anything wrong. In summary it said:
the order had been correctly fulfilled in line with Mr Ks account terms and conditions
Trading 212 wasnt liable for any losses  unless arising directly from our 
negligence, breach of contract, bad faith, wilful default or fraud.
Market conditions can affect the time it takes to execute orders and Trading 212 
processed orders in turn and as soon as was reasonably possible
market volatility and highly illiquid stocks (such as Mr Ks S shares) could lead to 
delayed execution
Mr K had initiated a market sell order at 17:39:55 which was executed at 18:33:55.
Trading 212 said that although Mr Ks complaint was unfounded, it made a goodwill offer 
based on a price correction which it said covered the price difference between the time Mr K 
submitted his order and the order being executed. 
Mr K remained unhappy with the response, so referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. One of our investigators considered the complaint. In brief summary, he 
didnt agree that Trading 212 had been responsible for any wrong-doing or consider that 
Trading 212 was liable for the negative impact on Mr K of the delay in selling his S shares. 
He reminded Mr K about Trading 212s goodwill offer and said he wasnt able to ask it to do 
anything further in these circumstances. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to reach a final 
decision on his complaint. He mainly says:
the offer is inadequate to reflect his loss, for which he blames Trading 212
in support of his case, he relies on screenshots which he believes show different 
timings to those mentioned by Trading 212 and in particular suggest that his trading 
instructions werent carried out for at least three hours  and he doesnt believe the 
order was executed when Trading 212 has said it was 
Trading 212 is the only one out of the various trading apps he uses that doesnt allow 
quick transactions
Trading 212 shouldnt be allowed to hide behind its terms and conditions 
he has concerns about the fact that a small buy order he placed to check the app 
was working properly was promptly executed when at the same time he was 
repeatedly trying unsuccessfully to sell his S shares. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carried out an independent review and having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator and Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain my 
approach and how I've reached my decision.
I appreciate how strongly Mr K feels about this complaint. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support his view and whilst Ive summarised some of his concerns in my own 
words, Ive carefully read and considered everything hes said. We provide an informal 
complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive approached the complaint. 
Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the core issues I need to address in order 
to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention everything Mr K has 
brought to my attention as the purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point 
raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by both parties and reach a fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the 
complaint.  
My findings are made on a balance of probabilities, in other words, what is more likely than 
not, based on the evidence that has been provided by the parties. In simple terms, to uphold 
this complaint there would have to be persuasive evidence that made it more likely than not 
that Trading 212 had done something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably in some way 
that caused Mr Ks shares to be sold incorrectly at a price lower than it should have been. 
But I have not seen any such persuasive evidence in this case. Ill explain why.
Mr K gave a market order instruction to sell his shares. Trading 212 was required to execute 
his trade in line with its terms and best execution policy and obtain for him the best available 
price at that time. 
Trading 212s terms and conditions, which Mr K agreed to in order to be able to trade on its 
platform, explain that it will execute all orders in due turn and strictly by reference to time of 
receipt. 
Despite Mr Ks concerns about why his order to sell his S shares wasnt executed sooner, 
what he says about this isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold his complaint. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Trading 212 was responsible for any unreasonable delay 
carrying out his selling instructions. Trading 212 has confirmed his shares sold within an hour and that doesnt seem unreasonable to me, bearing in mind that his S shares were US 
based over-the-counter (OTC) stock. Our investigator explained that OTC stocks arent listed 
on any of the major US exchanges. Orders in illiquid stocks such as unlisted S shares can 
only be fulfilled when there is an appropriate counterparty to enable the order to be filled. So 
it follows that selling these stocks isnt as straightforward as selling listed stock. 
Its not in dispute that the S shares were very volatile on the day Mr K was trading and, 
around the time he placed his sell order, the share price started to dip, before falling steeply. 
I think its reasonable to conclude that the falling share price reflected the fact that a 
significant number of other investors in S shares also wanted to sell at the same time 
substantially outnumbering buyers looking to purchase S shares around the time Mr K was 
looking to sell. 
These factors seem to me to be the most likely explanation for the delay in Mr Ks sell order 
being fulfilled  whilst his buy order of £100 during this time was fulfilled much more quickly.  
There were warnings in Trading 212s terms and conditions about the risks of delays in the 
execution of orders in these sorts of shares and trading in illiquid markets and Trading 212 
made it reasonably clear in its terms and conditions that it didnt guarantee it would execute 
all transactions straightaway. So I think it's fair to say Trading 212 had taken reasonable 
steps to make Mr K aware of the possibility that trading in his S shares might not happen as 
quickly as he hoped.
I acknowledge that the price achieved was below what Mr K was expecting based on the 
indicative pricing. But there was no guarantee that the price that Mr K saw on the platform 
would be the price at which the order would be executed and this would be the price Mr Ks 
S shares would achieve. When Trading 212 received an instruction it had an obligation to 
execute it as soon as possible. If Mr K had intended to only sell at a specific price or limit, 
then he would have needed to provide a different instruction.
I've taken into account that Mr K says his sale was delayed for around three hours and hes 
provided a screenshot timed at 10.10 the next day that he says shows the sale completed 
around 13 hours earlier  so about 21.00 the previous evening and not around 18.33 as 
Trading 212 has said. Ive also seen another screenshot which shows that the sale 
instructions were submitted on the day in question at 19.39 and the order filled at 20.33. So 
theres clearly scope for confusion here  but it doesnt change the outcome of this 
complaint. Trading 212 has explained that the time displayed in its records reflects a 
different time zone  it is an international business originally set up outside the UK. The time 
shown on users apps corresponds to their own local time zone, wherever they are in the 
world. So I think this is the most likely explanation for the apparent time differences. 
Despite what Mr K suggests, I dont find that Trading 212 is hiding behind its terms and 
conditions to justify a poor level of service and not paying him the compensation he feels he 
is owed. Whilst the service Trading 212 provides may fall below Mr Ks expectations, that 
doesnt necessarily mean that Trading 212 has behaved unreasonably or that compensation 
is due  even if he feels Trading 212 compares unfavourably to other apps he uses.
To sum up, I havent seen enough to persuade me that the time it took to execute Mr Ks 
selling instructions was the result of any error on the part of Trading 212 and while 
I understand why Mr K is disappointed with price his shares were sold at, I find that Trading 
212 have treated him fairly and did not cause the loss he is claiming.
So I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint and it follows that I cannot award the compensation 
he seeks.Its my understanding that Trading 212 will hold open its offer for a further 28 days should 
Mr K wish to accept it and, because of the time which has elapsed, rather than making an 
adjustment to the trade itself it will instead credit Mr Ks cash balance with the funds. If Mr K 
wants to accept the settlement proposals put forward by Trading 212, he should contact 
Trading 212 direct. This decision marks the end of our involvement in this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman