DRN-3778897
The complaint
Company A complains that HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) has refused to refund transactions 
totalling over $242,000 that its director (Mr A) says he didnt authorise.
For ease of reference, I will refer to Mr A (who is bringing the complaint on behalf of 
Company A) as the complainant throughout this decision. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again in detail here. In brief summary, Mr A has disputed five payments made from 
Company As USD account between 20 June 2019 and 24 June 2019 that he says he didnt 
authorise. He says he had lost his debit card and secure key device when he was abroad, 
which he suspects is how someone else was able to make the payments. 
HSBC refused to provide Mr A with a refund as it couldnt find any point of compromise for 
someone else to have been able to make the transactions from his business account. Our 
investigator also didnt uphold the complaint. As Mr A had not shared any of his security 
details, she didnt think there was enough evidence to determine that any fraud had actually 
taken place, as there was no plausible explanation for how his online banking login details 
had otherwise been compromised. So, she thought they had most likely been authorised by 
him. Mr A disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards, the codes of practice; and, 
where relevant, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The disputed transactions complained about took place in June 2019, so of particular 
relevance to my decision are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs)  which apply 
to transactions like the one made from Mr As account.
The PSRs say that a payment transaction is authorised by the payer where they have given 
their consent to the execution to the payment transaction. Such consent must be given in the 
form and in accordance with the procedure agreed between the payer and the payment 
service provider.
Unless the payment service provider can show consent has been given, it has no authority 
to make a payment or debit the customers account. Where a payment service user denies 
having authorised a payment transaction, it is for the payment service provider to prove that 
the payment transactions in question were authorised by the customer.
Having considered the facts before me as well as the relevant law, it seems to me that the 
key question I need to determine here is whether it is more likely than not that Mr A 
authorised the transactions. In other words, I need to decide whether Mr A made the 
transactions himself or gave someone permission to do so. This is important because a 
customer will usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking, a 
bank will be liable for any unauthorised payments.
In this instance, the transactions were made via international transfer through Mr As 
business internet banking. Mr A says he lost his debit card and secure key device while he 
was abroad, which he suspects was used to gain access to his company account.
Ive reviewed the login activity for Mr As online banking, and I accept that a different IP 
address was used to access his online banking on 20 June 2019 when the disputed 
transactions were made. The same IP address was also used to access Mr As online 
banking in August, September and October 2019, which was after he had changed his 
password on 2 July 2019. So, it seems that whoever was accessing the account from the 
device used to make the transactions either knew, or had been given, Mr As security 
credentials to access his online banking, including the change of password after the 
transactions had been disputed. 
I also note that a known mobile device was used to access mobile banking at various 
occasions around the time the disputed payments were made. It seems likely this would 
have been Mr A, as this device has been used to access mobile banking frequently in the 
past. So, it seems more likely that he would have noticed a discrepancy in his balance given 
the significant size of the transactions being made, yet the transactions were not disputed 
until around a month later in July 2019.
I appreciate that Mr A thinks that his lost secure key device may have been used to login to 
his online account for the transactions to be made. And while his debit card was replaced on 
5 June 2019, I acknowledge that his secure key device wasnt de-linked until 29 June 2019. 
However, this still does not explain how a third party would have been able to access his 
online banking with the active secure key device, because they would have also had to know 
Mr As username, password and PIN code. So, these payments could have only been made 
if either Mr A had made them himself, or had shared his security credentials with someone 
else in order to facilitate the payments being made from another device. 
However, Mr A says he hasnt shared his security details with anyone else, and theres 
seemingly no other explanation as to how his details otherwise came to be compromised. 
So, given Mr A didnt share his details with anyone else, the only plausible conclusion is that 
either he made the transactions himself, or gave his details to somebody else, thereby giving 
his consent and authority for payments to be made on his behalf. I appreciate that Mr A 
disputes this but given no one else would have seemingly known his online banking login 
details, there is no other more plausible explanation for how the payments could have 
otherwise been made. 
As a result, there isnt enough evidence to suggest that a fraud or scam has taken place 
here, so I dont consider HSBC has acted unfairly by declining to refund the disputed 
transactions, as I consider they were more likely than not to have been authorised by Mr A. I 
appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr A, but I wont be asking HSBC to 
take any further action.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman