DRN-3898297
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited sent life and critical illness 
quotes to a wrong email address.
What happened
Mr M obtained life and critical illness quotes for himself and his wife. He was understandably 
very unhappy when these quotes were sent to a group email address of work colleagues.
Our investigator didnt find that Aviva had done anything wrong. Mr M appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find is key issue here. Our rules allow me to 
take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. Having done so I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the 
following reasons:
I appreciate that Mr M feels it is clear that there has been a data breach here  an 
email was received by colleagues containing an insurance quote with personal data 
included. However, this service cant determine whether there has been a data 
breach, that is the role of The Information Commissioners Office (ICO). I understand 
that Mr M has referred the matter there but hasnt yet heard back.
Ive looked at what happened, and the issue Mr M raised with Aviva. Aviva 
investigated but found no evidence that it had sent any email to an address other 
than the one Mr M provided. Aviva confirmed it doesnt have the group email address 
registered on its system. Im pleased to note that it investigated Mr Ms concerns. I 
appreciate that Mr M has information from Microsoft which he believes confirms that 
the email was sent by Aviva  but as indicated above this is a matter for the ICO to 
look into.
As Im not able to determine whether Aviva was responsible for a data breach, I cant 
require it to take any action to remedy the situation, nor can I require it to provide 
financial compensation. Im sorry this decision doesnt bring Mr M more welcome 
news.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman