DRN-2391391
The complaint
Mr N complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) placed a block on his debit card, 
meaning he was unable to complete a transaction in the supermarket.
What happened
Mr N attempted to pay for his supermarket shopping using his Santander debit card. The 
payment was attempted twice but Mr Ns card was declined both times due to a temporary 
block which had been placed on the card by Santander. Mr N had no other cards with him at 
the time and couldnt pay for the shopping. So he had to return the items which had been put 
through the till and wasnt able to buy anything. He went into his local branch of Santander 
the next day and confirmed the transaction was genuine. At that point, Santander removed 
the block from his card.
Mr N is very unhappy about the situation. He says there was enough money in his account 
to cover the supermarket payment. By declining the payment, he says that Santander denied 
him and his family food that day. He found the experience of having the card declined very 
embarrassing, in front of other shoppers and supermarket staff. And hes unhappy that he 
had to contact Santander to get the block removed from his account. He complained and 
asked Santander for compensation of £1,200.
Santander said its fraud detection system had stopped the payment for security reasons and 
that it had attempted to contact Mr N by text message and phone. Santander removed the 
block when Mr N visited the branch the next day. It said it had no record of Mr N having 
contacted it before that. Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong, so it didnt uphold 
the complaint. But it paid Mr N £20 in recognition of the embarrassment he experienced 
when his card was declined. 
Mr N wasnt happy with that and brought his complaint to this service. He thinks the situation 
warrants a much higher compensation payment. Our investigator didnt think Santander 
needed to do any more here. But Mr N didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that its right for Santander to have security measures and 
procedures in place to safeguard customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible. 
As to exactly what those procedures are and how they are carried out, that is a matter for 
Santander to decide. What I need to decide here is whether it applied its procedure correctly 
and fairly.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ns account say that Santanders fraud detection systems 
may highlight unusual spending patterns. They allow Santander to call, write to or send an 
SMS to Mr N if there are unusual payments in or out of his account or if Santander believes 
his account is at risk of a security threat. Under the terms and conditions, Santander can 
suspend Mr Ns card if it believes this is necessary for security reasons, or to prevent 
suspected unauthorised or fraudulent use of his card or account. Mr N agreed to be bound 
by these terms and conditions when opening his account.
Santander says that the supermarket payment was declined by its automated fraud 
detection system. A block was placed on the card to prevent further payments being made 
until Mr N had confirmed that the transaction was genuine. In taking these steps, I find that 
Santander was acting in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ns account. And I think it 
was reasonable for Santander to place the block on the account in circumstances where its 
fraud detection system had identified a possible security threat to Mr Ns account. Its what I 
would expect it to do.
Due to the amount of time which has passed, Santander isnt able to provide details of why 
the transaction was flagged by its system. But I note that there had been several 
transactions on Mr Ns account earlier in the day, before he attempted to pay for the 
supermarket shopping. One of these was an attempted cash withdrawal for more than the 
amount of Mr Ns daily cash withdrawal limit. Looking at the activity on the account that day, 
I dont think it was unreasonable that the transaction was flagged by the system. And, once it 
had been flagged, I think it was appropriate for Santander to put a temporary block in place 
to protect Mr Ns account.
Santander says it contacted Mr N by phone and text at the time to try and verify the 
transaction. I find that to be in line with its fraud detection policy, which then requires Mr N to 
make contact with Santander to confirm the transactions. I understand that this was 
inconvenient for Mr N. But I dont think its an unreasonable approach, as Santander cant 
know if a transaction is genuine otherwise.
 
Having identified concerns about the transaction, Santander couldnt remove the block until 
Mr N had confirmed it was genuine. He did this the next day. Mr N has said that he was too 
angry to go into the branch straight from the supermarket and that is why he waited until the 
next day. I can understand his point of view. But I dont think that Santander did anything 
wrong by placing a block on his account and leaving it there until he had made contact.
I realise that Mr N feels very strongly about his complaint. The situation was embarrassing 
and very frustrating. His shopping had all been put through the till but he had to leave the 
shop empty-handed, in front of other customers. And he had to contact Santander to get the 
block removed so that he could use his card again. I sympathise with the situation Mr N 
found himself in. But I dont think that Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably here. The 
nature of bank security checks means that they will cause some inconvenience to some 
customers from time to time. But the measures are there to protect customers accounts. 
And I dont think Santander did anything wrong by temporarily suspending Mr Ns card after 
its fraud detection system had flagged a potential security issue. Its what I would expect the 
bank to do.
Santander has acknowledged that the situation was embarrassing for Mr N and it has paid 
him compensation of £20. I think thats fair. I realise its much less than Mr N would like. But, 
in the circumstances here, I dont think Santander needs to pay any further compensation. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr N, but Im not going to ask Santander to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman