DRN-1201123
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about the information Barclays Bank UK PLC have given him about the 
timing of interest payments from his ISA to his current account.
What happened
Mr H has been a Barclays customer for many years. On 1 May 2019 he opened a new ISA 
with them. With his previous ISA, the interest earned was kept in the ISA but the interest 
earned on this new ISA is paid into his current account each month. He wasnt particularly 
happy with this arrangement as he doesnt earn any interest on the money in his current 
account but he decided to accept it and opened the ISA anyway.
Before Mr H opened the ISA he went through a list of questions with Barclays to ensure he 
understood the product. During this process, Mr H was told that the interest would be paid to 
his current account on the first of each month. He says he didnt feel that he needed to read 
the terms and conditions he was sent on 2 May 2019 because hed asked about everything 
that was important to him. 
So on 1 June 2019, Mr H was expecting to see the interest from his ISA transferred into his 
current account  but it wasnt. Instead, the interest arrived in his current account on 
Monday 3 June 2019. Mr H was upset that hed been given the wrong information and 
complained to Barclays. Barclays apologised and paid Mr H £50 for the inconvenience. They 
also went through the terms and conditions of the ISA again with Mr H and told him that if 
the first of a month fell on a weekend or bank holiday then the interest would be paid into his 
current account on the next working day. Mr H was satisfied with this outcome.
But the next month, Mr H received his interest into his current account on Tuesday 2 July. 
He didnt understand why this was the case as the Monday hadnt been a bank holiday. He 
was unhappy as he felt hed again been given the wrong information about when his interest 
would be paid. He was also unhappy that his interest was paid much later in the day than he 
was expecting. He said this meant he couldnt transfer the money straight out to an interest-
earning account and would lose another days interest on the interest.
Mr H complained to Barclays again. While his complaint was being investigated he spoke to 
several different representatives at Barclays. He was unhappy with these conversations as 
he felt he still wasnt being given clear information and some of the representatives were 
rude to him. As a result, Mr H wanted to move his ISA away from Barclays. He knew there 
was a loss of interest if he closed his account within the first twelve months so asked that 
Barclays would allow him to close the ISA without this cost in view of the incorrect 
information theyd given him.
In their response to Mr H, Barclays said they hadnt done anything wrong. But when Mr H 
brought his complaint to our service Barclays reviewed his case. They said the interest 
payment process is set out in the welcome letter sent to Mr H but acknowledged that Mr H 
had been given incorrect information over the phone and had been subject to poor service. 
They offered Mr H £50 for any inconvenience caused by the poor service (this was in 
addition to the £50 paid to Mr H in respect of his previous complaint).Our investigator felt that Barclays offer was fair and didnt think they needed to do any more 
for Mr H. Mr H was unhappy with this outcome and so his complaint has come to me. Given 
the time thats passed, Mr H is no longer tied in to his ISA but he asked that I take into 
account that it would have cost him £250 - £300 to exit his ISA when he wanted to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I can see how important this is to Mr H, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mr H has now accepted that Barclays paid his interest in line with their terms and conditions. 
But hes said hes not happy with how the information was communicated. Ive listened to a 
number of the calls Mr H has had with members of Barclays staff and its clear to me that 
there was some confusion within Barclays about when Mr Hs interest would be paid. Ive 
also looked at the terms and conditions specific to the Flexible Cash Isa Mr H opened.  Ive 
set out extracts from terms 5.3 and 5.4 below:
5.3 Interest is calculated on the daily statement balance  Interest will be paid on the first 
working day after the day on which interest becomes payable.
5.4  interest will be payable as follows:
Monthly interest: one month after the Flexible Cash ISA is opened and then 
monthly
In all cases, if the date on which interest becomes payable is not a working day interest will 
be payable on the next working day.
Barclays have explained that, in Mr Hs case, interest is calculated up until the last day of the 
month. This is the day interest is payable. If that day falls on a working day then the interest 
is calculated on that day and paid the next working day. But if the last day of the month is not 
a working day then the interest wont be calculated until the next working day and wont be 
paid until the following working day  which is why his July interest wasnt paid until 
Tuesday 2nd. 
Without the additional explanation I can see why Mr H and Barclays staff had difficulty 
explaining the apparent discrepancy over the dates on which hed receive interest. That 
didnt need to be set out in the terms and conditions, but the bank should have been able to 
explain it when asked.. So Im satisfied that Barclays didnt communicate the payment dates 
adequately to Mr H.
Mr H also complained that his interest is sometimes paid late in the day. But I cant see that 
Barclays made any commitment to pay it any earlier in the day  the terms and conditions 
refer only to the day it will be paid and not the time of day. And I cant see any of Barclays 
advisors told Mr H it should have been paid earlier in the day.  Mr Hs complaint seems to be 
based only on previous experience of other receipts. So Im satisfied Barclays havent done 
anything wrong in this respect. 
Putting things right
I can understand why Mr H is frustrated  he spoke to Barclays a number of times about his 
ISA and was given two different sets of incorrect information about the interest payment 
dates before he eventually got the right information and explanation. But Barclays have offered Mr H £50 to compensate him for the second error and have already paid £50 to Mr H 
for their first error. I think Barclays settlement offer is fair  Ill explain why.
I can see Mr H grew increasingly frustrated with Barclays while they were handling this 
complaint and said he wanted to exit the ISA at no cost to him. He felt this should be allowed 
because he said hed been mis-sold the ISA. But, during those conversations, he said hed 
have been happy with the interest payment dates if hed been given a clear explanation in 
the first place. Or if hed been told that the interest would be paid during the first week of the 
month for example. So Im satisfied that if hed had the right information from the start he 
would still have opened the account. And its clear to me that Mr H knew about the cost of 
exiting the ISA before the end of the year. So I dont think Barclays needed to let him exit the 
ISA without this cost.
Mr H has complained that hes lost out on the opportunity to earn interest on his ISA interest 
for a day or two in some months. While hes acknowledged this is a small amount, Im 
satisfied hes not lost out because Barclays paid his interest in line with the terms and 
conditions. So I dont think Barclays need to compensate Mr H for this.
Mr H has also complained about the cost, stress and inconvenience of the calls to Barclays 
and to our service to get to the bottom of this. Im aware Mr H made a large number of calls 
to Barclays about his complaint but I can see they responded to the complaint within the 
necessary timeframes. I dont think Mr H needed to make these calls - instead he could have 
waited for Barclays response. I can see that Mr H was concerned and inconvenienced by 
the incorrect information but its a relatively small matter. And I can see Mr H wasnt reliant 
on the interest income for his day to day living and so Im satisfied Barclays offer of £50 is 
sufficient to cover this. 
Im aware Mr H feels the wording in the terms and conditions should be clearer and that the 
staff should be better informed about their products, and I trust that Barclays will take this on 
board.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im directing Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr H the £50 
theyve offered him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Clare King
Ombudsman