DRN-1934561
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the decision by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to void his home 
insurance policy because it believed he had made a fraudulent claim for the theft of a watch.
What happened
Mr R suffered a burglary at his home. He made a claim to UKI for four watches which he 
said had been stolen.
UKI asked Mr R to provide evidence that he had owned the four watches. Mr R sent this to 
UKI which, in turn, forwarded this to its jewellery expert (which Ill call L).
L was satisfied with the evidence in respect of three of the four watches. However, while it 
noted that Mr R had provided an empty box in respect of the fourth watch, a Rolex, it also 
noted that according to a 2005 receipt provided by Mr R, he had part-exchanged a watch 
matching this description when he bought one of the other watches, a Breitling.
UKI asked Mr R about the part-exchange. He confirmed that the Rolex described on the 
receipt was the one for which he was now claiming. He explained that the watch retailer had 
subsequently spotted a flaw in the bracelet and so had said it couldnt honour the full amount 
it had agreed to allow in part-exchange for the Breitling. Rather than accept the lower 
valuation, Mr R said hed agreed to buy back the Rolex and pay the balance for the Breitling 
in cash. However, he didnt have any documentation to show this was what had happened. 
He also confirmed that, because he didnt often wear it, he didnt have photos since 2005 of 
him wearing the watch.
UKI made enquiries with the watch retailers head office. It said it was unable to confirm what 
happened because its transaction records only went back as far as 2013.
UKI asked L for its view. L said it was unaware of any jeweller which would not honour the 
original part-exchange value which had been agreed, particularly once a transaction had 
been completed.
UKI rang the branch of the watch retailer where Mr R had bought the watch and asked 
whether Mr Rs account of events was plausible. The person it spoke to said that what Mr R 
had described could not happen and that once the transaction was completed the valuation 
of the watch could not be altered.
UKI went back to Mr R to ask again about the chain of events but Mr R was adamant it was 
as he had described.
UKI decided that Mr R had tried to make a fraudulent claim for a Rolex watch he no longer 
owned. On this basis, it cancelled his policy from the time he made the claim, thereby 
meaning it didnt pay him anything in respect of the other watches for which he had claimed. 
It also entered his details onto an industry database designed to counter fraud. This led to 
Mr Rs motor insurer informing him a short while later that it would be cancelling that policy 
also.
Mr R complained to UKI but it wouldnt change its decision. Mr R therefore referred his 
complaint to us.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She considered that 
Mr R hadnt been able to satisfactorily substantiate that he had owned the Rolex watch at 
the time of the burglary. She therefore considered it had been fair for UKI to decline this 
element of the claim. However, she noted that fraud was a serious accusation and 
considered that UKI didnt have strong enough evidence to make such an accusation in this 
case. She therefore considered that UKI should reinstate the policy, remove fraud markers 
from all databases (and write to Mr R to confirm this had been done) and deal with the rest 
of the claim. She further noted that since having his motor insurance policy cancelled, Mr R 
had been unable to obtain replacement cover. She considered that UKI should pay Mr R 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him.
UKI didnt accept the investigators findings. It considered the evidence showed that Mr R 
could not have bought back his Rolex watch as he had claimed.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the purposes of the claim, Mr R has to provide reasonable evidence to show that he 
owned the items in question. I consider that Mr R has not done enough to show that he still 
owned the Rolex watch. He was able to produce the box, and it is not in dispute that he used 
to own it. But he part-exchanged it for the Breitling watch in 2005 and, while he says he 
subsequently bought it back from the watch retailer, he doesnt have evidence to show this. I 
therefore consider it was reasonable for UKI to say it wouldnt pay this element of the claim.
However, UKI went further than that and declared that Mr Rs claim for the watch was 
fraudulent. This is a serious accusation which can have significant repercussions for the 
policyholder. As such, UKI needs to have strong evidence to support the accusation.
UKI spoke to someone from the watch retailer who said it would be bound by a valuation for 
part-exchange purposes and it couldnt subsequently renege on this. UKI also spoke to L 
which said it was unaware of any jeweller which would not honour an agreed part-exchange 
valuation.
I agree that it seems unlikely that a jeweller would behave in this way, particularly once a 
transaction had been completed. However, the evidence gathered by UKI relates to current 
behaviour; there is nothing to show that the employee giving the testimony from the watch 
retailer was actually employed by it in 2005. There is no record (beyond the receipt provided 
by Mr R) of what actually happened in 2005. Mr R is adamant that the watch retailer lowered 
its valuation following the transaction, which led to him buying the watch back. And while I 
consider Mr R hasnt satisfactory shown that this is true, neither do I consider that UKI has 
satisfactorily demonstrated that it couldnt be true and that Mr R had therefore acted 
fraudulently.
In view of the above, I consider it was wrong for UKI to accuse Mr R of fraud and cancel his 
policy. It should simply have explained that it wouldnt be paying for the loss of the Rolex and 
then gone on to consider the rest of the claim.I therefore consider that UKI should reinstate the policy and consider the claim. It should 
also remove any references to the cancellation and fraud from internal and external 
databases (and provide a letter to Mr R confirming it has done this). UKIs action will have 
caused distress and inconvenience to Mr R, not least in leaving him for a period of time 
without motor insurance. I consider it should pay him £200 compensation for this.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require U K Insurance Limited to do the following:
reinstate the policy and deal with the remainder of the claim;
remove references to the cancellation and fraud from internal and external databases, 
and provide Mr R with a letter confirming it has done this; and
pay Mr R £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
David Poley
Ombudsman