DRN-3235465
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that Aura Finance Limited changed the exit 
fee on a new loan from 1% to 2% only a few days before the previous loan was due to 
expire. 
Mr A, who is a director of D, brings the complaint on Ds behalf.
(Ds complaint originally included concerns over extension fees charged in May 2020, but I 
have not been asked to determine those concerns.)
What happened
Aura provides bridging finance. At the beginning of 2020, D had an existing loan with Aura 
which was due to be repaid in mid May 2020. The loan was not in fact repaid in May 2020; 
instead, D paid a fee and Aura agreed a six month extension.
This dispute is now solely about the further six month extension agreed in October 2020  
and in particular about whether the amount of the exit fee on that loan extension should be 
1% or 2% of the gross loan amount.
Aura told us:
At the beginning of September 2020, it believed that Mr A was arranging the sale of 
the land the loan was secured on, and that Ds intention was to repay the loan before 
the full balance became due in November 2020. Later in September it discovered 
that Mr A wanted a further loan extension.
Following a face-to-face meeting with Mr A, it issued a supplementary facility letter 
(the first letter) in October 2020 quoting an exit fee of 1%. Mr A signed and returned 
that first letter. However, the exit fee of 1% was not the amount agreed during the 
face-to-face meeting. Auras standard exit fee is 2%, and the reference to a fee of 1% 
was simply a mistake.
Shortly afterwards, it issued a replacement supplementary facility letter (the second 
letter) quoting the correct exit fee of 2%. Mr As solicitor noted that the second letter 
had a higher exit fee than the first one, and Aura explained that there was an 
oversight in the first letter. Mr A then signed and returned the second letter, along 
with associated documents and the agreed capital reduction. The renewal went 
ahead on the basis of the terms in the second letter. There was no dispute on the 
terms and fees provided to D at the time of completion.
It offered considerable forbearance to D. It allowed two extensions to Ds borrowing, 
with the first having a concessionary extension fee of 1% (rather than its usual 
extension fee of 2%). For the second, it chose not to apply further administration or 
insurance fees.
It would normally expect a borrower to approach it two to three months before a 
facility end date to allow enough time for underwriting, valuation and credit committee 
removal. It cannot be held responsible for the fact Mr A did not allow enough time for 
other options to be explored.
Mr A told us:
He had a face to face meeting with Aura before the first letter was issued, at which 
the exit fee was discussed. He asked to pay an exit fee of 0.5%. However, the verbal 
agreement reached was that Aura would issue a facility letter with an exit fee of 1%. 
The notes he took during that meeting include the comment 1% exit fee agreed. 
The meeting was attended by a third party, a Mr S, who was not employed by Aura 
but does have a longstanding friendship with a senior member of Auras staff. He 
hoped Mr S would provide a statement to support his own recollections of the 
meeting, but Mr S has not done so.
 
Although the second letter is dated mid October 2020, he didnt receive it until the 
first week of November. That was the first he knew of the change in exit fee from 1% 
to 2%. He had very little time before the loan was due to expire, and he simply had 
no alternative but to agree to Auras revised terms. If he hadnt agreed, he would 
have had to raise over £4 million in only a handful of working days.
Our investigator looked at this complaint but did not uphold it. He said it wasnt possible for 
him to be certain what was agreed during the face-to-face meeting, but on balance he 
thought it likely that an exit fee of 1% was verbally agreed. However, our investigator said 
that Mr A later made the choice to agree to the higher rate of 2%. He noted that Mr A wasnt 
obliged to accept the higher rate, and that he had the opportunity to seek legal advice before 
accepting the terms.  
Aura accepted our investigators findings, but Mr A did not. He said there was ample 
evidence to show that Aura had verbally agreed an exit fee of 1% during their face-to-face 
meeting. He considers that Aura has not shown that its normal fee is 2%, and his notes 
confirm that 1% was agreed in his case. 
Mr A also said that the first letter became contractually binding once he returned the signed 
copy. Although he did sign and return the second letter agreeing to the amended terms, he 
did so under duress  and after his solicitor had queried the change. He considers that our 
investigator failed to understand the duress he was put under, and the ramifications of not 
accepting revised terms at such a late stage. He was put in a position where he either 
agreed to the change or lost the land completely, and he regards that as unlawful pressure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to further disappoint Mr A, but having considered the circumstances of this case, I 
have come to the same conclusions as our investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
I accept that Mr A was under considerable pressure during October 2020. Aura had made 
clear that if the loan wasnt repaid or extended by the due date, it would take enforcement 
proceedings  which would have had significant consequences both for D and for Mr A 
personally. But I dont think there was anything unreasonable about Auras reminding Mr A 
of the consequences of Ds failure to repay its existing loan on time. Such a reminder is normal with commercial lending of this type. I dont think that Auras behaviour here 
amounted to unfair pressure.
I also accept that Aura gave Mr A only a few days to decide what to do. But again, I see 
nothing unfair about that. Short timescales are not particularly unusual in bridging finance, 
and in any event I see that Mr A did have time to consult a solicitor.
Regardless of what was or was not agreed during face-to-face meetings, or indeed in 
previous loans, I think the key point here is that Mr A consented to setting aside the first 
letter when he signed the second letter agreeing D would pay the 2% exit free. I am satisfied 
that he knew the second letter (and the terms within it) replaced the first one. He had access 
to legal advice, and decided to sign the second letter. I therefore see no reason why D 
should not be bound by the terms of that letter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Aura Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman