DRN-2911341
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) havent paid him the level of 
annuity that it had previously agreed to pay. He says it reduced the amount when it set up 
the annuity after hed accepted an original quotation  and it didnt advise him of this 
reduction. 
He would like the financial loss he says hell suffer for the rest of his life to be paid to him as 
well as compensation for the distress and inconvenience he says he suffered. 
What happened
Mr B took out a retirement annuity contract with Friends Provident in 1984. Aviva 
subsequently took over that provider as well as the management of his pension. In 
March 2019 Mr Bs impending change in circumstances led to him asking Aviva for 
illustrations to show the level of income he would get from his plan if he took out an annuity. 
He says he was presented with a range of options, one of which was an annuity for 
£22,095.48 per annum. He says he signed the quotation form and applied to Aviva through 
his financial adviser.
Mr Bs annuity was set up from 4 April 2019. He subsequently asked his adviser to 
investigate why his first two payments were taxed differently. This investigation continued 
but Mr B subsequently became aware of a discrepancy between the amount he was being 
paid and that which he said hed previously been promised. So, in December 2019 Mr B 
complained through his adviser. The adviser said that Aviva had given a value for Mr Bs 
annuity income in its retirement illustration pack but had used a significantly lower valuation 
when the forms were returned, and the annuity was set up. It wanted to know why the 
annuity had been altered and why Mr B hadnt been informed of the change. 
 
Aviva said its original quotation was based on an incorrect calculation, which it subsequently 
corrected. It apologised for its error and paid Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
this had caused. However, it said that Mr B shouldnt benefit from a legitimate error and said 
it wouldnt be amending the annuity that was in place. But it did offer Mr B the chance to 
cancel his annuity although he would need to repay the annuity payments that had been 
made in order to do that.
Following further communication with Mr Bs adviser, Aviva explained that the reason for its 
error was that it had calculated Mr Bs entire fund using the same guaranteed annuity rate 
(GAR), instead of using different rates for the regular contributions hed made and a single 
contribution hed made in 2001. It also apologised for not making Mr B aware of this mistake 
at the time the annuity was put in force. 
     
But Mr B didnt accept Avivas offer and brought his complaint to us making the following 
points:
He had no way of verifying whether Avivas original offer was correct or not-
especially as the monthly difference between the two payments wasnt significant.
He still doesnt know if the calculations were correct, so he thinks Aviva should 
honour the binding contract it offered him in March 2019 which he signed and 
accepted.
If the mistake had been an obvious one, he would have queried it, but it wasnt so he 
didnt query anything. If he had thought it was an obvious error, he wouldnt have 
tried to take advantage of such a mistake. 
Aviva has consistently failed to provide any evidence to support the error in its 
calculations. 
Aviva should have contacted him immediately and notified him of its error when it 
was found. It wasnt fair for Aviva to simply replace his annuity with a lower one. He 
thought that overall Aviva accepted this, but it only offered one resolution which was 
to unwind the annuity  which he didnt think was viable and would prove too costly. 
Avivas handling of his complaint has been poor and failed to understand the position 
hed been placed in. He didnt think its offer of £300 in total was adequate. He 
thought Aviva should pay the shortfall in the yearly pension of £1,342.32 for the rest 
of his life. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
He said Aviva accepted it had made an error and has confirmed the original figure was 
incorrect. He said it wasnt fair for Mr B to benefit from an error such as this, and had the 
error not occurred, he would always have been in the same position. But he thought Aviva 
had caused some distress and inconvenience and its offer of £300 was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree. He said that, while he understood we werent a court of law, he was 
surprised we hadnt taken account of his position  in that a contract was agreed and Aviva 
should now honour such a contract. He also said he was concerned that Aviva still hadnt 
provided an explanation for the incorrect calculation and that we appeared to simply accept 
Avivas view. 
The investigator said it wasnt possible for us to check the calculation but if Mr B could 
provide evidence to show a mistake had been made, we would use that evidence in 
determining the outcome.
Mr B said it didnt seem possible for anyone to verify the calculation in this case, so he 
thought Aviva should simply honour the original contract  which he believed the law allowed 
for, especially as he didnt accept Avivas explanation that it had simply made a mistake. 
 
He said he wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so it was passed to me 
for a review.
My provisional decision
 
In my provisional decision I said that Aviva should have informed Mr B of the reduction in the 
annuity payment straight away and should have provided a clearer explanation for its error in 
the calculation. I thought it should pay £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this had caused as well as the raising of Mr Bs expectations of the amount of 
income he was receiving. But I didnt think Aviva should have to honour its original quotation 
as I thought, on balance, he was now receiving the correct amount. I made the following 
points in support of my findings:There was no dispute that Aviva initially issued Mr B with a retirement pack which 
said it would pay him a retirement income of £22,095.48. And there was no evidence 
that it made him aware of the lower income payment it implemented following a 
recalculation when it received Mr Bs completed application forms. 
Although Id seen Avivas attempts to explain what happened I didnt think it had 
provided a clear explanation of how it arrived at the lower figure. I thought Aviva 
would still have the information available that it used to carry out the calculation and 
ought to have used it to provide Mr B with an explanation.
But I was satisfied that, on balance, Aviva did make an error with the original 
calculation. I thought its explanation about using different GARs, with the evidence it 
provided to confirm that, was compelling. And I thought it was reasonable for it to 
check the calculation on receipt of Mr Bs application and pick up any errors it had 
made previously.  
But I would have expected Aviva to have informed Mr B about the revised income. 
I considered what Mr B would have done if hed been given the correct information 
straight away and been made aware of the reduced annuity. And I thought, as he 
wanted to draw his benefits at that time and the Aviva offer included GARs which 
meant it was probably the most attractive option for him, then he would still have 
gone ahead with the lower annuity payment. 
So, I didnt think Aviva needed to make up any shortfall between the two figures  
because I was satisfied Mr B was now receiving the correct payment.   
However, Avivas explanations had been poor with little evidence to support its 
actions, and Mr B was still unsure about whether hed been financially 
disadvantaged. And because Aviva failed to notify Mr B about the reduction in 
income Mr Bs expectations had been raised over a significant period. It was only 
because of Mr Bs questions about a related tax issue that he became aware of the 
lower income figure. 
I thought the distress and inconvenience Aviva had caused Mr B warranted a further 
payment of £200  leading to a total of £500 to be paid.
Aviva should provide Mr B with a clear explanation of why the annuity decreased.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B wanted to reiterate the main points of his complaint and set out the following response:
There was a written contract between Aviva and himself. He was offered a certain 
level of income which he accepted in writing. 
Aviva has accepted making a mistake but believes the law says he shouldnt benefit 
from its error. But he says this is the contrary to the actual legal position  which 
states that a party to a contract is not allowed to benefit from its own unilateral 
mistake when the other party has acted in good faith. 
This was compounded by the inequality of knowledge available, where Aviva is 
responsible for all the calculations involved and he had no way of checking the 
calculations or knowing which one was correct. He relied on the information Aviva 
provided through its quotations.
While the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a court of law it is obliged to take into 
account the legal position. It should act as an informal dispute resolution service as 
an alternative to litigation. 
He thinks Aviva should honour the original contract and pay him the higher annuity 
as well as compensate him for failing to tell him that it was going to pay him less than 
originally stipulated.Aviva didnt agree with the increase in the level of compensation Id provisionally decided. It 
said it had provided Mr Bs adviser with an explanation of what went wrong in an email dated 
3 January 2020. It also said it told the adviser that it wouldnt be providing a copy of the 
calculations as they were commercial sensitive and meaningless to anyone outside of Aviva.  
It said it continued to state its position throughout February 2020 which it thought 
demonstrated a high level of response to  and explanation of, the complaint. It thought it 
provided as much information as it could, which in any case had been the same as it 
provided to us, who said we were satisfied with the way the calculation had been revised. 
So, it thought the additional £200 compensation wasnt warranted and, in any case, was for 
poor communication which occurred after the complaint had been resolved by it and rights 
to this service were given to Mr B.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having carefully considered the further points both parties have submitted I dont see 
any reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
The incorrect valuations
Mr B says the original quotation formed a contract which Aviva should now honour as he 
signed the contract. He says Aviva shouldnt now be allowed to benefit from the error it 
made as he accepted its offer in good faith. Mr B says we should take the legal position into 
account here and decide that the contract should be enforced. 
On the other hand, Aviva accepts that it did a make an error with the original quotation  
which it corrected before it paid the annuity to Mr B. So it thinks Mr B is now receiving the 
correct payment and it recognised the distress this caused him as represented by its 
payment of £300 compensation.  
As I said in my provisional decision theres no dispute that Aviva did make an error with its 
first quotation and that, when it recalculated a lower annuity, it then didnt convey this 
reduction to Mr B until he found out for himself much later. 
But, based on the evidence Ive been provided with, Im satisfied that Aviva made a mistake 
here which it then corrected, and I think its more likely than not that its recalculation was 
correct. I say that because Aviva has provided a plausible explanation of what went wrong 
here. It said it used the same GARs for the entire fund in the first calcination but realised it 
should have different GARs in the second calculation. And because Mr Bs plan consisted of 
single and regular contributions  taken out at different times, its more likely than not that 
different GARs would have applied. 
I would also have expected Aviva to have double checked the payment before it put the 
annuity in force and, on discovering the error, should have revised the payment. Of course, it 
should also have told Mr B about this revision  which it didnt, and is something Ill cover 
later. But, in terms of the annuity payment, I think Aviva ultimately ended up paying the 
correct amount. 
And Ive also considered what Mr B would have done if hed been advised of the reduction in 
income and had it explained satisfactorily to him. Mr B has indicated that he was keen to 
draw his benefits at the time he applied. And because of the beneficial GARs that were included in the plan it was highly likely this 
would have been the best solution for him. 
Given the circumstances at the time, I think Mr B would have gone ahead with the (lower) 
annuity that was available when Aviva recalculated the annuity income prior to setting it up. 
So, overall, I think Mr B is receiving the correct income  Im satisfied that Avivas revised 
calculation is correct. And I think he would have accepted that income in any case, if hed 
been advised of its change. I dont think Aviva needs to honour its original calculation  or 
make up the shortfall between the illustrations, in this case.
Mr B has said that we need to take into the legal position here  which Ive done in reaching 
my decision. But my role isnt to forensically examine detailed points of law in relation to the 
position  thats for a court to decide. Were an informal dispute resolution service and I have 
taken into account the law, any regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time in 
order to reach a fair and reasonable decision  based on the evidence available to me. 
Providing details of the calculation
In my provisional decision I said that it wasnt clear to me why Aviva couldnt have provided 
a clearer explanation for what happened here using a simple understandable calculation. 
Aviva said it did provide Mr Bs adviser an explanation in January 2020, but it couldnt share 
its internal calculations because of commercial sensitivity and because the content wasnt 
meaningful to anyone outside of the business. 
I think the email did provide some degree of explanation  although this was nine months 
after the revised calculation was implemented. But its still not clear to me why Aviva hasnt 
been able to provide a simplified version of the calculation which might help Mr B to gain 
some understanding of what happened here and some closure of the situation. For example, 
as Aviva has explained the error was caused by using different GARs, its not clear why it 
cant simply confirm to Mr B the GAR that was used for the original calculation and the GARs 
which were used for the recalculation. It could then use those GAR figures to calculate 
through the difference between the two funds and subsequent yearly incomes. 
All of that information was available to Mr B previously and so Im not sure why Aviva is 
unable to provide it subsequently. And while it has stated that the calculation is complex and 
meaningless to people outside of the business Mr B has an adviser, who should be able to 
better understand some of the more technical information. I dont expect Aviva to provide the 
full inputted data it used for its calculation, and I appreciate some of the information might be 
commercially sensitive, but Mr Bs complaint is partially that Aviva hasnt provided an 
explanation which explained its error satisfactorily  so therefore hes unable to accept that 
Aviva did simply make an error because it cant be independently substantiated. 
So I think Aviva needs to provide some accompanying figures which back up its explanation 
for the resulting reduced annuity payment.  
The revised compensation
Aviva said it didnt agree with my recommendation to pay Mr B £500 in total for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. It said the additional £200 was for events which happened after 
it answered the complaint  so that should be considered as a new complaint or not apply.
But in my provisional decision I said the additional £ 200 was because the situation caused 
by Aviva would still have had a significant impact on Mr B. The expectations of what he 
thought he would receive as an annuity had been raised, over a significant period. So my view was that Aviva had caused significant distress and inconvenience as a result of 
failing to make Mr B aware of the revised income when it was applied. And that Mr Bs 
expectations of the amount he would receive had been raised by the original illustration and 
the same subsequent failure to confirm the downward income revision  until the point Mr B 
himself raised questions which led to his discovery about the change. All of this came about 
as a result of Avivas initial error and failure to update Mr B of its revised calculation  both of 
which were part of the original complaint. So I dont agree that they should form part of a 
new complaint and Im satisfied that the £500 I suggested is fair and reasonable and within 
the range of what Id expect to see offered for errors and raised expectations such as these. 
Putting things right
Aviva should pay Mr B a further £200 in addition to the £300 it had already paid him in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by its failure to make him aware of the 
revised annuity payments. And the subsequent raising of expectations about the income he 
should have received.
And it should provide Mr B with some form of acceptable simple calculation which explains 
why the second revised calculation is correct and which goes some way to confirm what 
happened with the first quotation.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited in part.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman