DRN-2098848
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mr I payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997; 
and again, following an adjustment, in 1999. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr I disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The sale of the PPI policies took place 21 and 23 years ago and almost none of the original 
documents from the time are now available. Also, I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything that happened so long ago; so it can be difficult to know whether its fair to 
rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. 
Mr I says that the PPI was pushed by the bank to be taken as a package with the mortgage, 
to the point where it looked as though the mortgage might not have been available without 
the PPI. 
The problem I have, in deciding on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words used by the 
adviser and the tone in which they were said. And it wouldnt be fair, for me to conclude 
Bank of Scotland acted wrongly, unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. 
Mr I has suggested that Bank of Scotland should provide evidence to prove that he willingly 
took PPI. But I dont agree that would be a fair thing to demand of Bank of Scotland. Where 
someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness 
requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did 
happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they didnt do something wrong, 
especially when it was such a long time ago.
Overall, I dont have strong-enough evidence and so cant fairly say that Bank of Scotland 
mis-sold the PPI in the way Mr I believes. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply. Ill explain further.
Bank of Scotland says it doesnt know if it formally recommended the PPI to Mr I, so it 
assessed the complaint as though it had. I think this was a fair way to handle the complaint, 
as it meant the bank had to be judged by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI 
was suitable for Mr Is particular circumstances. And, if a possible recommendation was 
unsuitable, it would probably mean the PPI had been mis-sold. 
However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties. And it 
looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what 
Ive seen of Mr Is situation at the time: 
Its likely Mr I was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr I received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. So it would have put off the time when Mr I would 
need to fall back on any savings, or other means he may have had for paying the 
mortgage and all his other living costs. The 1997 policy would have paid out for 
potentially up to 12 months; and the 1999 policy for up to 24 months. This all would 
have put Mr I in a more secure position, if hed eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr I couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr I would 
have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation would have 
been suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But, although I cant be sure, I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information 
about this would have affected whether Mr I took the PPI. I say this for the same reason that 
I think a recommendation would have been suitable  for someone in Mr Is circumstances, 
the PPI is likely to have seemed potentially useful and to have given peace of mind, even 
once theyd had all the limitations and costs pointed out. 
So Im not able to say the PPI was mis-sold for these other reasons either. 
Mr I has sent us a copy of a letter from another lender, which gave him a mortgage after the 
one given by Bank of Scotland. That lender decided that the PPI, which it had sold Mr I, had 
been mis-sold; and it gave him a refund of his premiums. Mr I says his circumstances were 
the same as in 1997 and 1999, and so this shows that Bank of Scotland should have upheld 
his complaint too. 
The other lender doesnt say why it decided it had mis-sold the PPI. I know there can be very 
many reasons for saying PPI has been mis-sold. For example, this can include evidence 
about an unfair sales practice that has been discovered in the period a PPI policy was sold. 
Or it could relate to particular terms in the other PPI policy, which made it unsuitable for 
Mr Is circumstances at that time. Whatever the reason was, it wouldnt be fair to say that a 
decision by one lender is evidence that another lender was guilty of a mis-sale. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman