DRN-3970728
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society has not helped him when he attempted to 
make purchases to a retailer, and he is unhappy with their security in general.
What happened
Both Mr K and Nationwide are aware of the circumstances of this complaint, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. Instead, I will focus on my findings for the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has provided very detailed submissions to our service in relation to this complaint. In 
keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service and as our rules allow, I will 
focus here on the points I find to be material to the outcome of Mr Ks complaint. This is not 
meant to be a discourtesy to Mr K, and I want to assure him that I have considered 
everything he has submitted carefully. 
Having done so, it should be highlighted that Mr K has mentioned a number of issues that 
are not within the remit of our service to consider. I appreciate that Mr K feels we should 
change the parameters of what we can consider, however this is not for me to decide. 
Under the rules which our service must adhere to, I am able to consider Mr Ks individual 
complaint against Nationwide that is related to a regulated activity, as set out in DISP which 
can be found in the Financial Conduct Authorities (FCA) handbook. With this in mind, I have 
mainly focussed on the issue Mr K had when making payments online to a retailer, who Ill 
call T.
Mr K has not provided much detail in relation to this complaint point, other than to say that 
he had difficulties using his debit card online. Nationwide has explained that the declined 
transactions specifically affected his payments to T, meaning it did not appear to be a wider 
issue. 
Nationwide went on to explain that each time an order with T is amended, a new 
authorisation with the card issuer, Visa, is needed. When multiple authorisations in a row are 
attempted, this can trigger a fraud check on Nationwides systems and affect the payment 
going through. Considering this, and with nothing to suggest otherwise, I dont think 
Nationwide has made an error in the circumstances, as the difficulties Mr K was facing were 
related to Ts interaction with Visa. Nationwides fraud systems are there to help protect     
Mr Ks account, which is what I think has more likely happened in this case.
Mr K has also mentioned some other issues relating to Nationwide which Ill touch on. He 
has raised concerns that Nationwide may have been hacked at some point, as he believes a 
scammer contacted him as a result of an e-mail he received from Nationwide. Mr K has 
pointed to a fine that Nationwide received from the FCA in 2007 in relation to security 
breaches. 
Ive considered this and while I appreciate the research Mr K has done, I think the security 
breach was a considerable time before Mr K has brought the complaint to our service, so I 
think its unlikely the same issues are still affecting Nationwide. And I need to consider what 
has actually happened in relation to Mr Ks specific complaint. Overall, Mr K has not 
specified any loss he has incurred and, on balance, Ive seen nothing to suggest that any 
scam activity he has experienced has stemmed directly from Nationwide. With this in mind, I 
cant agree that Nationwide has made an error in the circumstances.
Mr K has also raised issues with Nationwides website being insecure, seemingly due to the 
website domain being used. As well as some video links not working when he has attempted 
to use them. Ultimately, the majority of this does not fall within my remit as it is not related to 
a regulated activity and is instead about Nationwides choice to use certain systems, which is 
not something I can instruct them to change. Nationwide has stated that they had no issues 
with other consumers being able to click on the links and view the videos Mr K has 
referenced and Im conscious that Mr K has mentioned he used software to make his online 
activity more secure, and it is possible this may have had an impact on his ability to view 
videos and access links. In any event, Im not satisfied that Nationwide has made an error in 
connection to this and I dont direct them to take any action in order to remedy it.
On balance, having carefully considered everything Mr K and Nationwide has provided, I 
think Nationwide has acted reasonably in the circumstances I dont direct them to take any 
further action.  
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman