DRN-3475022
The complaint
Mr I complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as (Halifax) debited money from his 
account without his consent. He says this resulted in his account becoming overdrawn and a 
missed payment marker recorded on his credit file. 
What happened
Mr I raised a dispute regarding two debits from his account amounting to £41.08 and 
£122.83. Halifax recredited Mr Is account with these amounts but on investigation as the 
merchant retailers bank had confirmed the service for these debits was available it re-
debited Mr Is account which resulted in his account becoming overdrawn.
Following a call with Mr I in December 2020 Halifax agreed a temporary overdraft on a 
decreasing basis to assist Mr I in bringing his account back into a manageable position. In 
March 2021 Halifax wrote to Mr I informing him that his temporary overdraft was coming to 
an end on 29 March. Mr I brought the account back into credit in May but and as there was 
still a debit balance on the account from March until May without an agreed overdraft in 
place this was recorded on Mr Is credit file.
Mr I complained to Halifax who said that no error had been made and that it had followed the 
correct procedures.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Is concerns and reached the conclusion that Halifax 
hadnt done anything wrong and had treated Mr I fairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. 
Mr I disagreed so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Is complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr I has experienced and see if Halifax has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr I back in the position he wouldve been 
in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think is fair 
and reasonable.
Mr Is main complaint point is that it Halifax took money from his account and approved a 
temporary overdraft without his consent. But I can see that following Halifaxs investigation 
into the disputed transactions it was satisfied that the transactions were valid and prior to re-
debiting his account it wrote to Mr I informing him that that it was going to remove the credit 
and that if there were insufficient funds his account may become overdrawn.
So I cant say Halifax has done anything wrong here  it was satisfied the transactions were 
valid  a decision I think it was entitled to take - and gave Mr I the appropriate notice of what 
was to happen following its investigation.
In regards to the temporary overdraft, Im also in agreement with our adjudicator here  Mr I 
confirmed at the end of a long phone call between himself and Halifax that he wanted to go 
ahead with an arrangement which provided him with a temporary overdraft to bring his 
account back to a manageable position. It was also explained that this arrangement wouldnt 
show on his credit file as a late payment, but a late payment is shown when you go into 
unarranged overdraft  for example when an overdraft is removed and you still have a 
negative balance that is an unarranged overdraft and will be recorded as a late or missed 
payment.
Its my understanding that Mr I hasnt had the opportunity to listen to the recording of the 
phone conversation between himself and Halifax. But even without having the opportunity to 
listen to this I can see on Halifaxs internal records that a temporary overdraft was arranged 
with a renewal date of 29 March 2021. This is also reflected on Mr Is bank statements which 
he had access to. 
And I can see that on 1 March 2021 Halifax wrote to Mr I and gave notice that his overdraft 
will come to an end on 29 March. If Mr I wasnt aware he had an overdraft I wouldve 
expected him to get in touch with Halifax following receipt of this letter and query what this 
was about. So, again I cant say Halifax has done anything wrong here.
And as Mr Is account still showed a debit balance following the temporary overdraft ceasing, 
Halifax reported this on Mr Is credit file. I can see that a payment entered Mr Is account 
bringing his account back into credit in May - but this payment was made after the overdraft 
came to an end. 
So I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in recording this information on Mr Is credit file  
Halifax has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the 
credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate and this is an accurate 
reflection about what happened. 
So overall and having considered everything I dont think Halifax treated Mr I unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im not upholding this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman