DRN-3323365
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money hes lost to a fraudster.
Whats happened?
In May 2021, Mr P noticed some suspicious activity on his Monzo account. He was reporting 
it to Monzo using its online chat function when he received a telephone call from a fraudster 
pretending to work for Monzo. Mr P has told us that the fraudster used the following tactics 
to convince him that the call was genuine: 
They called from a spoofed telephone number, which was very similar to the number 
on the back of his Monzo debit card (only the last two digits were switched, and he 
didnt notice this until he had been speaking to the fraudster for a while).
They sent text messages to his mobile phone from a spoofed telephone number, 
which was identical to the number on the back of his Monzo debit card.
They took him through security checks  they knew his residential address including 
the full post code and his email address. 
They told him that a fraudulent transaction had been attempted on his account which 
directly related to the suspicious activity he was in the middle of reporting to Monzo.
The fraudster told Mr P that an unrecognised device was logged into his Monzo application 
(the app) and theyd need to block his account to prevent any further fraudulent 
transactions being attempted. They asked him to move all the money he held in Monzo 
accounts into his Monzo current account and said they would then close the compromised 
account and transfer Mr Ps money to a new, secure account. As a precaution, Mr P sent the 
money in his Monzo accounts to an account he held with another bank. But the fraudster 
said this might compromise his account with the other bank and asked him to put the money 
back in his Monzo current account. He even received a call from a spoofed number which 
matched the number on the back of the debit card the other bank had issued him with, 
confirming that his account with that institution had been compromised.
Once Mr P had moved his money back into his Monzo current account, he was told to      
log-out of the app, delete and reinstall it, then sign-in again as normal. In the meantime, the 
fraudster said he would receive a text message with a security name, which he did. Mr P 
says he didnt give the fraudster any personal information and he wasnt asked for any. He 
didnt download any other software either. When he signed back into the app, he saw that 
his account was still blocked, and showed a nil balance. He became suspicious at this point, 
especially when the fraudster told him he would now need to apply for a £3,000 overdraft to 
secure his account. He also noticed that the number the fraudster was calling from wasnt 
identical to the number on the back of his Monzo debit card. He told the fraudster he was in 
an online chat with Monzo and he was going to speak to them about the situation. The 
conversation ended abruptly but £4,887.50 had already been transferred out of his account 
by then. 
Mr P says his funds were taken out of his account without his knowledge - he didnt send 
any payments or authorise anything. The only time he entered his credentials is when he 
deleted and reinstalled the app.
What did Monzo say?
Monzo has said that: 
No funds remained in the beneficiary account for it to recover. 
Its records show that Mr P authorised the transfer of funds out of his account  he 
approved the payment using his PIN. But, as Mr P says he didnt authorise the 
payment, it cant treat it as fraudulent or reimburse him under the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code)  which only covers 
Authorised Push Payments (APP).
What did our investigator say?
Our investigator was satisfied that the payment out of Mr Ps account was authorised, and 
he said that Monzo should have fully reimbursed Mr P under the CRM Code. But Monzo 
didnt agree. It maintained that, as Mr P had reported the transaction as unauthorised, it isnt 
covered by the CRM Code. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CRM Code requires firms who have signed up to the Code to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. Although 
Monzo isnt yet a signatory of the CRM Code, its allowed us to apply the Codes principles 
to complaints about it which meet the relevant criteria.
I appreciate that Mr P has said he didnt send any payments or authorise anything. The fraud 
was sophisticated, and perhaps he didnt realise he was authorising a payment out of his 
account from the actions he was taking. But, from the evidence Ive seen, and from what 
Monzo has told us, Im satisfied that he did and that he has been the victim of an APP scam, 
which is covered by the CRM Code. And I havent seen any evidence which persuades me 
that any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this 
case.
I say this because Monzo hasnt argued that Mr P ignored an effective warning it gave during 
the payment journey, nor has it pointed to any warning it gave which it believes was effective 
and ignored. And Im satisfied that Mr P had a reasonable basis for belief in this case for the 
following reasons:
Mr P had noticed genuine suspicious activity on his account and was in the process 
of reporting this to Monzo when he received the call from the fraudster. The fraudster 
told him that a transaction had been attempted on his account which directly related 
to the suspicious activity he was in the middle of reporting. I think this added 
authenticity to the fraudsters story. 
The telephone number the fraudster called Mr P from was very similar to the number 
on the back of his Monzo debit card  only the last two digits were switched. Mr P 
says he checked this and didnt notice the slight difference initially. I think is 
understandable in the heat of the moment and given how similar the number was. In 
addition, the text messages Mr P received from the fraudster came from the same 
telephone number as the one on the back of Mr Ps Monzo debit card.
The fraudster took Mr P through security checks, asking him questions which demonstrated that they knew both his residential address and email address. 
During the scam, Mr P received a call from another spoofed telephone number which 
was the same as the one on the back of his debit card issued by another bank. I think 
this wouldve added another layer of persuasiveness to the scam.
Overall, it appears that Mr P fell victim to a sophisticated scam, and I can see why his 
suspicions werent aroused at first. I dont think it was unreasonable for him to have believed 
that he was speaking to Monzo in the circumstances.
From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that Monzo should have reimbursed the money Mr P 
lost to this scam under the CRM Code. I cant be certain what Mr P would have used the 
money he lost for if he had not been defrauded, so I think its fairest to award interest at a 
rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mr P should have received a refund under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Monzo Bank Ltd to:
reimburse Mr Ps loss within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my 
final decision; plus
pay 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr P should have received a full 
refund under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman