DRN-1552883
The complaint
Mr A complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined his mobile phone claim 
under his gadget insurance. My references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
Mr A had gadget insurance, insured by Assurant. His daughters new mobile phone was 
registered on the policy on 1 November 2019. The next day Mr A called Assurant to make a 
claim as the phone had been lost/stolen from his daughters jacket. Mr A provided proof the 
phone had been blacklisted.
During a call between Mr A and Assurant on 12 November 2019 Mr A told Assurant that his 
daughters phone was security protected with facial recognition and a passcode, which only 
she knew. 
Assurant declined the claim. It had evidence that the phone had been removed from the find 
my iphone function and the phone had been restored five days after the claim was made. 
Assurant said those actions required someone to know the security information on the 
phone. As Mr A had said only his daughter had the relevant information Assurant referred to 
the policy term about fraudulent claims to decline the claim.
Mr A provided information from the phones manufacturer to Assurant which he said 
supported his claim. But Assurant said the information wasnt enough to change its decision.
Mr A complained to us. He wants Assurant to accept the claim. He said hed been distressed 
and inconvenienced by Assurants decision and hed put in significant time and effort getting 
information from the phones manufacturer and police.
Our investigator thought Assurant fairly declined the claim.
Mr A disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said his family had recalled that 
when his daughter contacted the police to report the loss she told the police officer her 
iCloud user name and password but shed not told anyone else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A. I have to decide whether Assurant fairly and reasonably 
declined the claim, and I think it did. Ill explain why.
Assurant relied on the following policy term to decline the claim:
It is important that when applying for insurance, or submitting a claim you or anyone acting 
on your behalf must take reasonable care to answer all questions honestly and to the best of 
your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the validity of your policy or the payment of your 
claim.
If false or inaccurate information is provided and fraud is identified then we will:
 Not honour the claim and we will cancel your policy. If an excess has been paid this will not 
be returned, this is not a penalty this is to cover administration costs.
Assurant has provided evidence to show the phone was restored on 7 November 2019, after 
the date Mr A reported the phone as lost/stolen. Assurant says that means the phone had 
either been reset to factory settings or an iOS software update had been completed. And for 
either of those to be completed, the person with the phone would have needed to bypass the 
phones security details only known to Mr As daughter and needed other personal security 
information.
Mr A told Assurant he thought the phone had been hacked and accessed. Assurant asked 
him to provide further evidence to support his suggestion. I've seen the information the  
phones manufacturer sent to Mr A. I think Assurant was reasonable to say the information 
wasn't enough to show its probable the phone was hacked.
I note Mr A says his daughter gave some security information to the police officer when 
reporting the loss of the phone. But Ive no evidence or reason to think the officer would 
have removed the phone from the find my iphone function and restored the phone.
On the evidence Assurant had I think it reasonably concluded that either Mr As daughter 
hadnt lost the phone as reported or the information he gave about the phone having security 
features only known by his daughter wasnt correct. So Assurant fairly and reasonably relied 
on the above policy term to decline the claim.
Mr A says he spent a lot of time and effort getting information to support his claim. But 
Assurant acted reasonably in asking him to provide evidence he thought would support his 
position. And while I understand Mr A has been upset and inconvenienced about Assurant 
relying on the policy term for fraud Ive explained above why I think it reasonably did so on 
the evidence it had. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman