DRN-3644058
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Ageas Insurance Limited trading as Ageas decision to decline a 
claim he made for accidental damage under his commercial property insurance policy. Mr G 
says he received a poor service from Ageas.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr G reported damage to a property he rents out to tenants to the 
insurer, Ageas. He said hed obtained a report from a contractor which said the likely cause 
of damage was by a leak from guttering next door which was blocked by vegetation. 
Ageas instructed a claims company to deal with the claim on its behalf which Ill refer to as 
D. 
D said until the neighbour cleared the vegetation and carried out any necessary repairs to 
stop the leak, it couldnt consider the claim or carry out repairs to Mr Gs property - as the 
unrepaired leak would only cause ongoing damage. 
When the neighbour completed the repairs and cleared the guttering, D arranged an 
inspection of Mr Gs property in January 2022. However, the contractor reported that the 
cause of damage wasnt covered by an insured peril under Mr Gs policy. They said there 
were small signs of vegetation in the hopper connected to guttering - and that the hopper 
was on Mr Gs property. They said the internal damp damage wasnt consistent with damage 
being caused by a leak from the neighbours guttering. So Ageas declined Mr Gs claim.
Mr G complained to Ageas. He said the cause of damage given by the contractor was 
incorrect as he said any debris showing in the hopper wasnt there in November 2021 - so 
was as a result of the neighbour clearing their guttering. 
Mr G said if Ageas had arranged an inspection sooner he believes his claim would have 
been met. Mr G said he had to make several calls to Ageas from abroad where he was living 
and working to try and progress the claim. He was unhappy with the lack of updates.
Ageas said its decision to decline the claim was correct. It offered Mr G £100 compensation 
for the inconvenience it caused by its poor service. 
Mr G didnt accept Ageas offer to resolve his complaint and he asked us to look at things for 
him. 
Our Investigator thought Ageas had acted reasonably, so didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld. She found Ds contractors findings persuasive. 
Mr G didnt agree. Hes unhappy that the Investigator didnt refer to his contractors report 
from November 2021. He says the photos hes provided show no vegetation on the hopper 
and Mr G believes any debris discovered by Ds contractor is a result of the neighbour 
clearing their guttering. 
So Mr G wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs contractor report from November 2021 said the following:
Damp areas reported around kitchen window to rear of property viewing from the 
ground both properties share one downpipe from the upstairs guttering next door, 
plants growing in the gutter which would mean the gutter is severely blocked which 
could be causing water to overflow down the wall of this property.
Suggest getting next door to clear their gutters.
So I think it was reasonable - based on this report - for Ageas to carry out a full inspection of 
the property after the neighbour cleared their gutter. I dont think it was confirmed at this 
stage that this was the cause of damage, but that it was a possibility. 
In January 2022 Mr G told Ageas that the neighbour had cleared their gutter. So Ageas 
instructed Ds contractor to attend the property to validate the claim. Ds contractor made the 
following comments:
The instruction states that it was suspect block gutter from the neighbours property.
At the site survey the tenant showed the surveyor all relevant damage none of which 
corresponds to blocked gutters.
The tenant showed the kitchen which had staining to the window reveal internal this 
appears to be caused by down pipe issues externally and there are signs of small 
amounts of vegetation in the hopper at the top of the rain water pipe. However, this 
hopper is clearly on the PH property and is a maintenance issue.
To conclude we cannot find any evidence of insurance related perils at the time of 
the survey.
Mr G says it wasnt clear from the report if the contractor was aware of the issue with the 
neighbours guttering before they attended - but I think from the first statement above this 
shows they were. 
Ive looked at photos provided by Mr Gs contractor in November 2021 and compared them 
to Ds contractors photos taken in January 2022 - after the neighbour cleared their guttering. 
Although the November 2021 photos arent quite as clear as the January 2022 photos, I can 
see the same sign of vegetation on the hopper on the top left hand side. 
So I think Ageas decision to decline the claim by relying on the contractors opinion in 
January 2022 was reasonable. 
I agree with Mr G that at times the service he received from Ageas was poor and it could 
have been more proactive in progressing the claim and updating Mr G. I also think by 
confirming it would provide a quote for repairs once the neighbours guttering was clear that 
this led Mr G to believe his claim had bene accepted and was valid. But I also think it was 
fair and reasonable not to decide Mr Gs claim and carry out a full inspection until the 
neighbours guttering was cleared, so that it could make an informed decision. I appreciate 
that Mr G says he was abroad and so there was a time difference. Ageas and its contractor 
notes show they experienced problems when attempting to call Mr G back. 
As a commercial customer, its reasonable to expect a degree of inconvenience and own 
time when having to deal with a claim. Unfortunately its inevitable. For the inconvenience 
caused by Ageas poor service, I think Ageas compensation award of £100 is fair. 
I understand Mr G will be disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not asking 
Ageas to do any more. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman