DRN-4211103
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont reimburse payments to his account that he was 
coerced into making by a group of people. 
What happened
Mr A was approached by a group of people he didnt know (the group) and was coerced, 
under threat of physical violence, to make several transactions from his Monzo account for 
the benefit of the group over a period of several days. 
After the coercion had ended, Mr A told Monzo what had happened and asked them to 
recover the money transferred from his account for him. Unfortunately, Monzo couldnt 
recover the transferred money. Mr A wasnt happy about this and felt that Monzo should 
have done more to protect his account from the group. So, he raised a complaint.
Monzo responded to Mr A and explained that they didnt feel they should reimburse the 
transactions to Mr As account because Mr A had authorised those transactions in the 
knowledge that they were for the benefit of the group. Mr A wasnt satisfied with Monzos 
response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Monzo had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Monzo have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Mr A believes that he is the victim of a scam here. However, I dont think that this is the 
case. I say this because a scam generally involves some form of deception, wherein a 
person is deceiving into making payments to a recipient that they believe is genuine, only to 
later discover that theyve been tricked and that this wasnt the case. 
But there was no form of deception in this instance. Rather, Mr A was threatened and 
coerced into making payments for the benefit of the group whom he understood were 
intending to steal his money from him at that time. And because of this, I feel that whats 
happened here is a criminal act, but not a scam. 
Mr A feels that Monzo should reimburse the transaction amounts he was coerced to make 
by the group. However, in broad terms, the starting position in law is that a business such as 
Monzo is expected to process payments and transfers that a customer authorises, in 
accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. And given that it isnt disputed that Mr A did authorise these transfers  
regardless as to why he authorised them  the starting position for the purposes of this 
complaint is that Mr A should be considered liable for any loss he incurred as a result.
Additionally, while businesses such as Monzo do have obligations which may come into 
force when one of their customers has been the victim of a scam, I dont feel that these 
apply in this instance. This is because, as explained, I dont feel that Mr A was the victim of a 
scam here. And while Monzo, like all banks, do have a general duty of care to monitor their 
customers accounts for unusual activity, I dont feel that the payments that Mr A made to the 
group were unusual  given how Mr A had managed his Monzo account in the recent past  
such that I would reasonably have expected Monzo to have held any concerns about them.
Finally, when Monzo were told about what had happened by Mr A, they did act quickly to try 
to recover the transfers Mr A had made to the group but were unfortunately unable to do so. 
Accordingly, I dont feel that Monzo acted unfairly towards Mr A in how they attempted to 
recover money that Mr A had lost  once they were told about it. 
It follows from all the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Monzo to 
take any further action. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr A was wanting and I hope that 
hes able to recover his money from the group via other means. I also hope that Mr A will 
understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman