DRN-3953914
The complaint
Mr W says that NewDay Ltd (who Ill call NewDay) were unreasonable not to process a 
chargeback claim or to progress a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
(section 75) for him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, and I was very sorry to hear about his cancelled trip and 
mothers ill health, but I dont think NewDay have done anything wrong here and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
I note that Mr W has another complaint with this service on a similar matter where he is 
representing his mother. For clarity I would explain that Im only considering Mr Ws claim 
against NewDay here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, it might be 
possible to make a chargeback claim. The chargeback scheme isnt administered by 
NewDay, its administered by Mastercard, and they set the rules. NewDay didnt have to 
submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice for them to do so where the right 
exists and there is a prospect of success.
Mr W had used his credit card to purchase a voucher from a digital coupon provider I will call 
G. So, when NewDay were considering whether something had gone wrong it was that 
transaction they needed to review and not the subsequent transaction when Mr W used the 
voucher to pay for hotel accommodation.
I dont think there was any evidence that anything had gone wrong with the purchase of the 
voucher, so NewDay werent unreasonable not to submit a chargeback claim to the 
chargeback scheme administrators. That would have been likely to fail as the goods had 
been received and there wasnt evidence that G hadnt adhered to its terms and conditions 
or misrepresented the product.
It may also have been possible to raise a claim under section 75. That says that in certain 
circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the 
credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
But there was no evidence of a breach of contract or misrepresentation by G (the supplier) 
as they had provided the voucher theyd been asked to supply. So, again, I dont think 
NewDay were unreasonable not to process a section 75 claim as I think its likely it would 
have failed.
For a claim to be made under section 75 there needs to be a relationship between the debtor 
(Mr W), the creditor (NewDay) and the supplier. Whilst there was a valid link between Mr W, 
NewDay, and G for the purchase of the voucher. There wasnt a link between the hotel and 
NewDay and therefore a section 75 claim couldnt be raised by NewDay in relation to the 
failed hotel booking. 
It is for those reasons that I dont think NewDay have been unreasonable here and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman