DRN-2740566
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the way The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) handled her claim under her property owners insurance policy after 
her property was subject to malicious damage.
What happened
Mrs M owned a property which she let out. In October 2019, after evicting the tenant, she 
found the property had been damaged and items had been stolen. She made a claim under 
her policy.
After arranging for its loss adjuster to inspect the property, NFU accepted the claim for 
malicious damage. The loss adjuster invited Mrs M to obtain a quote for the repairs of this 
damage only.
In November 2019, Mrs M informed NFU that damage had also been caused to the boiler 
and central heating system. She said an engineer was attending.
In December 2019, Mrs M provided a repair quote to the loss adjuster.
In January 2020, the loss adjuster asked Mrs M to provide a breakdown of the repair costs. 
Later in January 2020, NFU decided to ask its own contractor to quote for how much the 
necessary repairs should cost.
Mrs M was unhappy at how long NFU was taking to deal with the claim. She complained 
about this and said the loss adjuster had gone back on assurances hed given at the outset 
that certain elements of her claim, including for stolen carpets, would be paid.
In March 2020, NFU issued its final response letter on the complaint. It considered it had 
been appropriate for it to obtain a further quote to check the reasonableness of the amount 
being claimed by Mrs M for the repair work. It said there was no evidence to show exactly 
what its loss adjuster said when he first met with Mrs M but said it was its normal practice to 
seek further information to validate a claim and it was for this reason that the loss adjuster 
had asked Mrs M for further information following that meeting. It noted that it had now made 
an interim claims payment of £8,229 (net of the £250 policy excess) and that its claims 
department was in discussion with Mrs M about a possible further payment. It accepted that 
there had been some problems of communication and delay for which it offered to pay £200 
compensation.
In May 2020, NFU made a further payment to bring the total settlement to £9,797 (net of the 
£250 policy excess).
Mrs M continued to be dissatisfied with NFUs handling of the claim. She made a further 
complaint about this and about the fact that its claim settlement excluded the cost of VAT.
In July 2020, NFU issued another final response letter. It explained that it would reimburse 
VAT on the cost of repairs upon receiving evidence from Mrs M that she had incurred this 
cost. It acknowledged there had been a delay in responding to Mrs Ms latest concerns for 
which it offered a further £50 compensation.
Mrs M was unhappy with NFUs responses to her complaints. She referred the complaints to 
us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded not to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
I shall deal with Mrs Ms complaint under its various headings.
Theft of carpets
Mrs M said that the carpets in some of the rooms were stolen by the tenants partner. She 
said the tenants partner was on the tenancy agreement from 2015 until 2017 when the 
couple had a falling out and he was removed from the agreement. However, Mrs M said that 
the couple subsequently reconciled and he continued to live at the property.
The loss adjuster initially said that cover was not available for the theft of the carpets 
because Mrs Ms policy did not include cover for the propertys contents.
Mrs M considered that the carpets theft should be covered because the carpets were glued 
down and therefore formed part of the fixtures and fittings. She provided a letter from the 
carpet fitter stating that the carpets were secured by grippers and the perimeters were stuck 
down with adhesive.
The loss adjuster advised that even if the carpets were to be regarded as part of the fixtures 
and fittings, the claim would still be declined because the policy excluded cover for loss due 
to theft where the person responsible was lawfully on the premises. He said the issue of 
whether the carpets were glued or not therefore became a moot point.
Mrs M argued that the person whom she accuses of the theft wasnt a named tenant and the 
exclusion therefore should not apply.
The policy describes the theft cover as follows:
Where this peril applies to:
1 BUILDINGS;
2 Contractors All Risks; or
3 any other item where YOUR schedule shows the location as "United Kingdom", "European 
Union" or "Worldwide":
Theft or attempted theft excluding DAMAGE arising:
1 by or in collusion with an EMPLOYEE or person lawfully on the PREMISES;
2 if the BUILDING is UNOCCUPIED.
The policy describes Damage as follows:
Accidental physical loss, destruction or damage
Mrs M has confirmed she was aware the tenants partner was living at the property with the 
permission of the tenant. Im therefore satisfied he was a person lawfully on the premises for 
the purposes of the theft exclusion. However, I dont think it is necessarily clear from the 
policy wording above that this means Mrs Ms claim for loss due to theft should be excluded.Nonetheless, I dont need to reach a firm conclusion on this point because I think it was fair 
for NFU to decline Mrs Ms claim based on its original reason, namely that the carpets didnt 
form part of the fixtures and fittings and thus werent covered by the policy.
I wouldnt normally expect carpets to be included within the fixtures and fittings of a property. 
They would instead be regarded as contents, for which Mrs M has no cover. Mrs M argued 
that the carpets were glued down and provided a letter from her carpet fitter to this effect. 
However, I dont really understand the carpet fitters explanation. If grippers were used, I 
would expect these to be installed around the perimeter of the room and the carpet  
stretched between them. There would be no need or opportunity to then glue the perimeters 
of the carpet to the floor. In addition, if the carpets had indeed been glued down, I would 
have expected to see evidence of either damage to the floor caused by their removal or glue 
residue whereas neither of these was noted. Furthermore, if they had been securely glued in 
this way, it sees very unlikely that they could have been removed without significant damage 
to the carpets themselves, which in turn would make it unlikely that theft was the reason for 
their removal.
In summary, for the carpets to be regarded as part of the fixtures and fittings of the building 
they would need to be secured to the building with sufficient rigour that their theft would be 
virtually rendered impractical. This, and the lack of physical evidence at the property to show 
that the carpets had been glued, causes me to consider it was reasonable for NFU to decline 
the claim, as it did originally, on the grounds that the carpets fell not under the buildings 
cover but under contents for which Mrs M has no cover.
Ive noted Mrs Ms comments that the loss adjuster originally told her he would put the claim 
through disguised as something else. The loss adjuster disputes this. In the absence of a 
recording I have no reliable way of knowing what the loss adjuster might have said but, in 
any case, I consider it is fair for NFU to decide the claim on the basis of the evidence and 
the policy wording.
Handling of claim for malicious damage
The loss adjuster visited the property in October 2019, nine days after the claim had been 
made. He discussed the damage with Mrs M and invited her to provide a repair quote for the 
malicious damage only.
In November 2019, Mrs M notified NFU of additional malicious damage which had 
apparently been caused to the boiler and central heating system.
In December 2019, Mrs M provided the loss adjuster with a repair quote.
In January 2020, having reviewed the quote, the loss adjuster became concerned that it 
included uninsured repairs. He therefore asked Mrs Ms contractor to provide a breakdown 
of the quote. He also asked Mrs M for the engineers report concerning the boiler and central 
heating system.
Mrs M provided the engineers report and maintained that all the repairs for which she was 
seeking cover were for damage which had been caused maliciously. Later in January 2020, 
having discussed the claim with the loss adjuster, NFU decided it should obtain its own 
quote for the necessary work, as well as a report on the boiler and central heating system.
In February 2020, NFU received this further information. It considered that some of the 
repairs for which Mrs M had been claiming were ineligible for cover because they were due, 
for example, to wear and tear. It offered an interim settlement of £8,229 (net of the £250 
policy excess) to cover the cost of malicious damage only, including to the boiler and central heating system. It said this settlement might increase slightly once it was in receipt of further 
information it was awaiting.
Mrs M asked NFU for a breakdown of the settlement which it provided in March 2020.
After further discussion between the parties and the consideration of further evidence, NFU 
agreed in May 2020 to increase the settlement to £9,797 (net of the £250 policy excess).
I consider that, in general, NFU has acted reasonably in its handling of the claim. It had 
accepted a claim for malicious damage and it needed to ensure that all the costs being 
claimed related to this damage only and that the costs were reasonable. Its actions were 
those I would normally expect an insurer to take to validate a claim of this nature. Mrs M 
says that the tenants partner made open threats that he was going to damage the property 
and that he has now been charged with vandalism. That may be the case but it appears that 
there was other damage to the property as well. Mrs M was seeking to include repairs for 
damage which, in the loss adjusters opinion, had not been caused maliciously. Examples of 
this included the replacement of windows and kitchen units. I dont consider that Mrs M has 
shown that such damage was malicious and I therefore consider it was reasonable for NFU 
to seek further information and eventually exclude these costs from the claim.
NFU has recognised that it could nonetheless have communicated better on occasion and 
avoided some delays. It has offered £250 compensation for these failings. Im satisfied this is 
fair.
Payment of VAT
Mrs M objected that NFU excluded VAT from its settlement. It is common for an insurer to 
withhold the VAT element of a cash settlement until the insured person shows that this cost 
has been incurred. I consider it was reasonable for NFU to do this. The fact that Mrs M had a 
different experience on a previous claim doesnt change my view. I have no reason to doubt 
NFU will reimburse Mrs M the appropriate amount in due course if necessary.
Loss of rent
The policy provides cover for loss of rental income due to damage to a property arising from 
an insured peril.
The evidence shows that Mrs M had taken steps to evict her tenant. The tenant apparently 
vacated the property on 8 October 2019 but Mrs Ms representatives did not visit the 
property until 13 October 2019. The property was in a very poor state of repair and the claim 
for malicious damage was made the following day.
The loss adjuster said that cover was not available for loss of rent because Mrs M did not 
have evidence, such as a tenancy agreement, to show a prospective tenant was about to 
move in.
Mrs M subsequently produced a letter from a person who said they had planned to take over 
the tenancy of the property on 14 October 2019 but had been forced to find somewhere else 
because the property had been uninhabitable.
I dont consider that Mrs M has shown she has an eligible claim under the policy. The policy 
provides cover for rental income she would have received but for the insured event. In this 
case, she stopped receiving rent because she asked the tenant to leave and not because 
the tenant moved out due to an insured event. The property was not in a fit state to rent out 
immediately the tenant had left but, as I have acknowledged above, this wasnt purely because of the malicious damage. The property required repairs beyond those covered 
under the policy.
I would have expected Mrs M to be aware of the need for these other repairs. For this 
reason, and the fact that no tenancy agreement had been drawn up, I consider it unlikely 
that a new tenant was due to move into the property on the day she made her claim. But in 
any case, I consider that Mrs M would have been unable to re-let the property until she had 
carried out all the necessary non-insured repair work. Until then, the insured event could not 
be said to have resulted in her suffering any loss of rent.
While Im satisfied Mrs M didnt have an eligible claim initially for loss of rent, Ive considered 
whether she might have an eligible claim starting at a later date. However, I dont consider 
that she has shown this was the case. There were some delays in NFUs handling of the 
claim, as I have acknowledged. However, these were not hugely significant and certainly by 
May 2020 NFU had made what I consider to be a fair offer in settlement of the claim. Mrs M 
hasnt shown that she had effected the other repairs to make the property suitable to let 
except for the malicious damage. I cant reasonably conclude it is NFUs fault that Mrs M 
didnt effect these other repairs sooner.
Ive considered the letter from Mrs Ms accountant but this simply confirms that she hasnt 
received rental income from the property since the previous tenant moved out. I dont 
consider that this necessarily means her claim is eligible.
I invited both parties to comment on my provisional decision.
Mrs M didnt accept my provisional decision. She provided a lengthy response. I summarise 
her comments as follows:
Theft of carpets
The person who caused the damage to her property was not living there as a legal 
tenant.
It didnt matter if significant damage had been caused to the carpets in their removal 
because the whole point had been to cause Mrs M financial damage.
The carpets were glued down and there was evidence of this but the loss adjuster failed 
to notice it. I am not a qualified carpet fitter and so the comments I made in my 
provisional decision are without foundation.
Handling of claim for malicious damage
The loss adjuster had a personal vendetta against Mrs M which was abundantly clear 
from his handling of the claim.
All the damage to the property had been caused maliciously. This was shown by the fact 
that the tenants partner had been charged by the police with vandalism in respect of it.
The damage had not been present when an electrician and plumber had attended 
approximately one month earlier after the tenants partner had deliberately flooded the 
flat (which had not resulted in damage). The tenants partner had at that time made clear 
to witnesses his intent to cause malicious damage.The loss adjuster had initially said that only one quote was needed but he and NFU later 
changed their minds about this. Along with other failures on the part of NFU, for example 
in failing to provide a breakdown of the quote from its contractor, this had meant the 
claim had been unreasonably delayed.
Payment of VAT
Mrs M did not receive a cash settlement. She was given money in two stages. It was due 
to the loss adjusters vendetta that the VAT was not included.
Loss of rent
The tenant wasnt evicted; Mrs M had instead terminated the tenancy legally.
A new tenant was lined up to move into the property. The policy does not require that 
Mrs M produce a tenancy agreement to receive benefit for loss of rent.
The only reason a new tenant was unable to move into the property was because of the 
malicious damage. The only other work which needed to be carried out was some 
painting and cleaning.
The claim for loss of rent should therefore be paid.
NFU accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall again deal with matters under their respective headings.
Theft of carpets
Ive already explained why I consider the tenants partner was lawfully on the premises but in 
any case this no longer has a bearing on the eligibility of the claim.
Mrs R originally claimed that the carpets had been stolen. She is now saying that their 
removal was malicious. However, the carpets were not to be found anywhere on the 
premises. I think it unlikely that the tenant took up the carpets and went to the trouble of 
disposing of them simply to cause harm to Mrs M, particularly as if that was his intent he 
could more easily have irreparably damaged the carpets while they were in place. This 
means that if Mrs Rs claim for the carpets is to be eligible under the policy, it would have to 
be as a theft claim.
As I explained in my provisional decision, the loss adjuster said there was no physical 
evidence to show the carpets had been glued. Mrs M says there was such evidence but she 
hasnt provided any videos or photos which show this. And if they had been securely glued, 
as would be required for them to be considered part of the buildings rather than contents, it 
seems unlikely that someone would decide to steal them given the likely damage which 
would occur to the carpets during their removal.Taking everything into account, while I cant explain what happened to the missing carpets, 
I consider that Mrs R hasnt shown that she has an eligible claim for the cost of replacing 
these under either the theft or malicious damage headings of her policy. 
Handling of claim for malicious damage
Mrs M said the tenants partner has been charged with vandalism in respect of every item for 
which she is claiming. However, she has not provided evidence to support this.
I consider that alongside the malicious damage, there were other repairs needed at the 
property which were simply due to wear and tear. These included, for example, the damage 
to kitchen wall cabinets and the shower door. Mrs M considers these were damaged 
maliciously but I dont consider she has reasonably shown that this was the case. The same 
goes for minor damage to walls. I dont consider that Mrs R could reasonably claim that all 
the repairs for which she was seeking cover could be attributed to malicious damage.
Overall, Im satisfied that NFU settled the claim for malicious damage fairly. I acknowledged 
that there were some failings in its handling of the claim which caused some delays but 
I remain satisfied that its offer of £250 compensation is fair. I have no reasonable grounds 
for concluding that the loss adjuster had a vendetta against Mrs M.
Payment of VAT
As I understand it, NFU has paid money to Mrs M to cover the cost of the insured repairs. 
This is a cash settlement. I have already explained why I consider it is fair, and in line with 
normal practice, for NFU to withhold the VAT element until Mrs M shows that this cost has 
been incurred.
Loss of rent
As I understand it, Mrs M served notice so that the tenant had to leave the property. She 
said that another tenant was due to move in on the day she made her claim and 
subsequently provided a letter from someone who said they had been that prospective 
tenant. However, I dont find her evidence convincing. It seems that no-one had been round 
to view the property beforehand. She has provided no tenancy agreement. Furthermore, she 
has provided no evidence to show, for example, that she had advertised the property or 
obtained references for the new tenant. On balance, I think it unlikely that someone was due 
to move into the property as she claimed.
As I have explained in my provisional decision, the policy provides cover for rental income 
she would have received but for the insured event. In this case, she stopped receiving rent 
because she asked the tenant to leave and not because the tenant moved out due to an 
insured event. She didnt have anyone lined up as a replacement tenant and therefore did 
not have an eligible claim for loss of rent.
I did consider whether she might have an eligible claim from a later date. However, I have 
already explained above that I consider Mrs M was seeking to claim for damage which 
wasnt covered under the policy. This was one of the reasons the claim dragged on for 
longer than it should have done. If Mrs M had carried out the repairs for which she was 
liable, and the delay in restoring the property to a suitable state for letting was simply due to 
NFUs poor handling of the claim, I might have agreed that she had an eligible claim for loss 
of rent. However, this is not what happened.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman