DRN-2096887
The complaint
Mrs J complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
associated with her mortgage by the West Bromwich Building Society (West Bromwich).
What happened
In November 1994 Mrs J took out a re-mortgage on her property with West Bromwich and at 
the same time purchased a PPI policy. When she complained that that the PPI was mis-sold 
West Bromwich didnt uphold her complaint. 
West Bromwich also considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been 
charged on the premiums that needed to be repaid. It said that there was some excess 
commission and offered compensation of £1,115.74 after tax.
Mrs J was unhappy with what West Bromwich said about the PPI not being mis-sold, so 
brought her complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020, setting out the reasons why I 
didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold.
West Bromwich has responded acknowledging receipt and indicating it has nothing further to 
add. 
Mrs Js representative has also responded acknowledging receipt and indicated it would 
send any additional comments and information from Mrs J if anything was raised. I 
requested responses by 2 August 2020. Nothing more has been submitted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Js case.
I set out in my provisional decision the full details of the complaint but shall again summarise 
them. Mrs J complained the policy she took out in 1994 was mis-sold. She said she was told 
she had to take out the insurance to get her mortgage and felt pressured due to her 
circumstances at the time as she needed to get her mortgage sorted out. 
Mrs J completed her mortgage application form in a meeting and a copy of the completed 
and signed form was provided. On the mortgage application form Mrs J had indicated she 
wanted to take out the PPI and a separate form was then completed. 
That separate form for the PPI was attached to a leaflet providing details about the PPI 
cover including the cost, benefits and restrictions that might apply. The information provided 
by Mrs J indicated she was eligible for the PPI. Mrs J also indicated on the form she had no 
pre-existing medical conditions and she made choices about the amount of cover she 
wanted. Mrs J then signed the separate application form.
I think from the forms that were completed Mrs J would have known she had a choice to take 
out the PPI and she met all the requirements for the policy. I also think information was 
provided about the costs and benefits and an oversight was given about the restrictions in 
the terms and conditions of the policy.
The main issue in this complaint was whether Mrs J would have been caught by the 
restrictions of the policy relating to pre-existing medication conditions.
When Mrs J completed the PPI application form in 1994 she indicated she had no pre-
existing medical conditions. But when bringing her complaint that the PPI was mis-sold she 
said she was suffering from some stress and depression. Following a request for more 
information about this Mrs J indicated when she took out the PPI she was suffering with 
depression and on prescribed medication for this. She indicated this did worsen and she 
ended up in hospital.
However, in 1996, two years after taking out the PPI policy, she made a successful claim on 
the policy for sickness related to this condition. In the circumstances I requested more 
evidence from Mrs J about when her condition first started and when medication was first 
prescribed. 
The medical evidence provided indicated that Mrs J was first prescribed medication for her 
condition in October 1997 and this continued for some two years. This links in with her 
successful claim on the policy for sickness in 1996, with the condition deteriorating over a 
period of time as she recalls, so she eventually had to have medication and hospitalisation.
So, at the time of taking out the PPI, as is recorded on the application form that Mrs J 
completed, I felt it most likely that she had no pre-existing medical conditions. She made a 
successful claim for sickness almost two years after taking out the policy which suggested 
she was not suffering from the condition which caused the sickness at the time of taking out 
the policy. Therefore, Mrs J would not have been caught by the restrictions of the policy for 
pre-existing medical conditions. 
Taking into account the full circumstances of Mrs J at the time, she was employed, had 
some employment benefits if off sick and has indicated she had no savings. The PPI would 
have paid out in addition to any sick pay benefits, allowing Mrs J to use her work benefits for 
other household expenses. And as Mrs J would not have been caught by any of the 
restrictions of the policy at the time she applied for it, I think it was suitable for her and was 
useful when she needed to claim. 
As I indicated in my provisional decision, and as nothing further has been provided by either 
party to persuade me differently, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by West Bromwich. I 
think at the time it is most likely Mrs J was aware she had a choice whether to take it out and 
she thought it would be useful.
Ive also considered the commission and profit share calculations for a refund of any excess 
commission paid as part of the PPI premiums. West Bromwich has offered and paid 
£1,115.74 (after tax) to Mrs J in relation to this. The amount includes the excess commission 
Mrs J paid and also some compensatory interest because she was out of pocket. I think 
what West Bromwich has calculated is fair in relation to this compensation.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold by West Bromwich 
Building Society, so I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman