DRN-3591324
The complaint
Mr E complains about the termination of his finance agreement and the arrears 
correspondence he received in relation to a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Porsche Financial Services 
(VWFS). Mr E is also unhappy with the difficulty he had with amending his payment 
dates.
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision which said:
In April 2018 Mr E acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with VWFS. The 
purchase price of the car was £72,729. Mr E made an advanced payment of £12,000. So, 
the total amount financed on this agreement was £60,729 payable over 48 monthly 
payments of £754.24 followed by a final payment of £36,978.75
Mr E said that in March 2020, he requested a three-month payment deferral (PD) on his 
agreement due to a loss of his income as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr E said 
VWFS approved the PD but didnt process it correctly, so instead of receiving information 
about the PD, he was sent correspondence to say he was in arrears.
From November 2020 Mr E made further payments to his agreement and agreed an 
Arrangement To Pay (ATP) with VWFS to bring his agreement back up to date following the 
PD. The ATP ran alongside Mr Es normal monthly repayments on his finance agreement. 
Mr E was unable to make his repayments on time, and despite some amendments to both 
repayments, VWFS were unable to provide Mr E with a payment date that was suitable for 
him.
Mr E complained to VWFS in December 2020 about the issues around the PD and the ATP. 
VWFS issued a final response in January 2021. VWFS said the PD was processed manually 
which caused the delays and ensured Mr E that his credit file wouldnt be affected as a 
result. They arranged to pay Mr E £200 in compensation.
In February 2021, Mr E made a further complaint about the payment dates that had been set 
for his ATP, finance agreement and the arrears letters that had been sent to him. VWFS 
issued their final response to this complaint on 19 February 2021. VWFS said Mr E had 
utilised his full 30-day allocation to amend repayment dates on his agreement, however they 
confirmed that the repayment dates for the ATP had been amended.
In July 2021 VWFS terminated Mr Es agreement. VWFS said this was because of the 
outstanding arrears and that Mr E didnt maintain the terms of his ATP.
Mr E complained to VWFS about the termination of his agreement. Mr E said following the 
PD application he wasnt given an option to extend his agreement, only to increase his 
monthly repayments.
VWFS issued their final response to this complaint in July 2021. VWFS acknowledged they 
made an error with setting a payment date but didnt uphold Mr Es concerns about the 
termination of his agreement.
VWFS explained that Mr E fell behind with either late or missed payments from November 
2019. VWFS issued arrears reminders, notices of sums in arrears and default letters to Mr E. 
VWFS said Mr E didnt keep up with the ATP and failed to contact them about it. So, they 
believe they fairly ended Mr Es agreement in July 2021.
Unhappy with their decision, Mr E brought his complaints about VWFS to this service for 
investigation. Having considered all of the evidence, our investigator found that VWFS hadnt 
acted fairly in the circumstances and recommended that Mr E make a payment to cover the 
monthly repayments from August 2021 to date, to reflect Mr Es continued usage of the car.
Our investigator also said VWFS should find a suitable solution for Mr E to repay the final 
payment and the outstanding amount from the PD. Our investigator also recommended 
VWFS pay Mr E £100 in compensation for the inconvenience caused and to remove any 
adverse information from Mr Es credit file relating to the agreement.
Mr E felt that he shouldnt have to pay for his continued usage whilst his complaint was 
being looked into, instead that the agreement should be reinstated to run its original term. As 
our investigators view remained unchanged Mr E asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
Whilst reviewing the evidence provided, I considered the details of Mr Es first complaint 
raised in December 2020, was brought to our service more than six months after VWFS had 
issued their final response in January 2021. Our investigator contacted VWFS to seek their 
consent to us looking into this complaint. VWFS responded to say that they deemed the 
complaint to be time barred because it was referred to us outside of six months and didnt 
consent to us looking into it.
In January 2023, I issued a final decision explaining that due to exceptional circumstances 
Mr Es first complaint was one that our service could consider.
I sent Mr E and VWFS my provisional decision on 21 February 2023. I explained why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. The key parts of my provisional findings are copied
below:
Mr E made three complaints to VWFS in relation to his finance agreement. Having 
considered all the information provided, it seems to me there are about four key issues for 
me to consider in relation to Mr Es concerns:
1. the communication and delays in relation to the PD
2. the repayment dates and arrears letters received
3. the impact to Mr Es credit file
4. the termination of the finance agreement
payment deferral
VWFS system notes confirm the payments on Mr Es finance agreement were suspended to 
ensure no payments were taken during the period of the PD. VWFS explained the 
suspension was due to the manual processing of the PD. Mr E says he wasnt contacted 
about the PD or informed about the details of it and believes it wasnt applied to his account properly. VWFS system notes show that Mr E was concerned about the impact on his credit 
file for the PD being applied incorrectly.
Ive thought about the fact that it was an unprecedented and unusual time for lenders, 
dealing with significant numbers of enquiries from consumers looking to get support with 
their repayments and finance agreements as the global pandemic unfolded. Many of these 
enquiries will have brought up issues which were relatively novel, and lenders were having 
to digest new information, rules, and guidance at a very unusual time.
All things considered; Mr E wasnt expected to make any payments during the PD period. 
Although this was done outside of the normal VWFS process, Im satisfied that it was 
achieved, to offer Mr E the support he required. I acknowledge he wasnt kept informed as 
much as he would have expected, and I can see that VWFS offered Mr E £200 in 
compensation in relation to this. In the circumstances, as described above, I think VWFS 
acted reasonably to ensure the payments didnt come out and fairly compensated Mr E for 
the inconvenience caused.
arrears correspondence and impact to credit file
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance for 
businesses in relation to motor finance agreements. The guidance was applicable in the 
exceptional circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic and the impact it had on 
motor finance consumers.
Mr E requested a payment holiday due to a loss of income as a result of the circumstances 
arising from Covid-19, so the FCA guidance as detailed above is applicable in this complaint. 
The guidance says firms should not report a worsening arrears status on the customers 
credit file during the payment deferral period.
VWFS system notes show that although the PD request was accepted, arrears letters were 
likely to have been issued to Mr E in error as a result of how the payment holiday was 
processed. VWFS said the PD was processed manually with the agreement being 
suspended in May 2020, which caused delays in its processing. 
VWFS confirmed that Mr E was sent an arrears letter in July 2020, which was during the PD 
period. Mr E also provided us with a copy of the notice of sums in arrears letter he received 
in July 2020. As Mr E was in a PD at the time of the arrears letter, I dont think it would have 
been fair for VWFS to issue it to him in relation to the suspended payments. However, I note 
that in their final response, VWFS said that Mr E was in arrears prior to the start of the PD, 
and that a number of reminders were issued to him at various times throughout it. So, I think 
its likely it could have been these arrears which had also caused reminders to be issued.
VWFS issued further arrears letters to Mr E from December 2020 through to March 2021. Mr 
E confirmed hed made payments to the agreement in November 2020 following six months 
of the PD. The statement of account confirms this. VWFS also confirms in their system notes 
that Mr Es account was in credit in December 2020. So, its likely that Decembers arrears 
letter shouldnt have been issued either.
The issuing of the arrears letters I think were likely due to the manual set-up of the PD, 
which may have enabled the correspondence to be generated. VWFS advised Mr E to 
ignore the correspondence and assured him his credit file wouldnt be affected as a result of 
the way the PD was arranged.Although I think its likely Mr E shouldnt have received the arrears letters during the period 
of the PD, Im satisfied that VWFS had resolved the matter fairly in the circumstances, and 
without any considerable impact to Mr E. For example, I havent seen any evidence that Mr 
Es credit file was affected or that VWFS hadnt made the amendments they said they would, 
or that Mr E suffered some consequential loss as a result of any incorrect data on his credit 
file during the PD.
payment date change requests
In December 2020 following the conclusion of the PD, VWFS agreed with Mr E to spread the 
repayments from the PD across the remaining term, in the form of an ATP to run alongside 
the repayments of the original finance agreement. VWFS werent obliged to extend the term 
of the agreement to allow Mr E to repay the PD amount. VWFS system notes suggest Mr E 
agreed to the terms of the ATP. VWFS calculated the PD repayment amount at £293.32 per 
month until June 2022. In an email to our investigator Mr E said VWFS wouldnt allow him to 
change the repayment dates of the ATP.
On 6 Jan 2021 VWFS system notes show that Mr E requested an ATP repayment date 
change to the 12th of each month to fall in line with his income. The notes show that VWFS 
amended the date to the 1st of each month commencing February 2021 to account for 
Januarys payment, and after a further conversation with Mr E amended it to the 5th of each 
month together with the finance agreement repayment date.
In VWFS final response they apologised for processing the ATP payment date change when 
they did, but advised the finance agreement repayment date had a limit to its movement of 
30 days, so they couldnt make any more payment date changes to it. 
Having considered the circumstances, I cant see that Mr E received arrears letters or that 
any adverse information had been recorded on his credit file as a result of any error on 
VWFS part in processing the payment date changes. Im persuaded the ATP arrears were 
caused from Mr Es inability to keep to the agreed dates rather than any error from VWFS in 
processing them. In addition to amending the date to the 5th of each month, which Mr E 
appeared to be satisfied with, VWFS also explained why they couldnt amend the dates of 
the finance agreement any further.
All things considered, Im satisfied with VWFS handling of the matter and wont be 
instructing them to do anything in relation to this part of the complaint. I think VWFS 
demonstrated reasonability and consideration in their amendments of the 30-day limitation, 
for example by ensuring that each of Mr Es monthly repayments were encompassed within 
any amendment, for example with January 2021s payment that was brought into the 
following month.
termination of the agreement
VWFS said they terminated Mr Es agreement following a number of late or missed 
payments from November 2019. VWFS said they issued around 13 arrears reminders and 
notice of sums in arrears letters to Mr E between December 2019 and May 2021. VWFS 
also said the terms of the ATP which was agreed with Mr E in February 2021 was broken by 
him, so they sent text message reminders and issued a default notice in June 2021 which 
they say Mr E didnt respond to and so they believed they acted fairly when they terminated 
the agreement in July 2021.
In an email to our investigator, Mr E said at the point the agreement was terminated, hed 
made all the payments required. VWFS agreed a plan which involved Mr E having to pay his ATP alongside the payment for the finance agreement on 5th of each month, starting in 
March 2022. Having looked at the statement of account provided by VWFS, it shows 
different payment amounts were made from February 2021 to July 2021, but it also shows 
the payments were inconsistent and irregular, and not necessarily on the 5th of each month 
as per what had been agreed for the ATP, with many entries showing as being rejected or 
returned. So, although Mr E was making payments towards the agreement, it was likely to 
have remained in arrears.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found within the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) handbook, says that a business must treat customers in default or in 
arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. CONC 7.3.5 provides some 
examples which include, suspending, reducing or waiving interest or charges, allowing 
payment deferrals or accepting token payments.
Im satisfied that VWFS demonstrated forbearance, for example in agreeing to the ATP, 
changing repayment dates and agreeing to the PD.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies, says If you fall into arrears on 
your account, or you do not keep to the revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be 
recorded to show that the relationship has broken down.
VWFS says they didnt receive any contact from Mr E after theyd sent him arrears 
notifications in May and June 2021 or when they issued the default notice. VWFS system 
notes show the last contact Mr E had with them prior to 16 July 2021 was on 20 February 
2021. However, during that period, I can see that VWFS made several attempts to notify Mr 
E about the arrears on his agreement through text messages, email and letter.
I acknowledge Mr E was making various payments towards his agreement, which as our 
investigator highlighted would have totalled in excess of £7,700, and I also recognise hed 
previously tried to amend the repayment dates of his agreement. However, I think its 
reasonable for VWFS to expect the repayments to be made on time. I also think it was 
reasonable to expect Mr E would get in contact with VWFS, within the necessary timescales 
to address the arrears correspondence he received. In addition, Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest the correspondence wasnt received by Mr E, particularly as the contact details held 
on VWFS system is consistent with Mr Es current contact information.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 requires businesses to serve notice on a borrower before 
they can become entitled to take certain actions, including terminating an agreement. VWFS 
provided a copy of the default notice they issued to Mr E on 18 June 2021 which gave him 
until 7 July 2021 to settle the outstanding arrears. The evidence shows that Mr E didnt make 
any contact with VWFS during this time to discuss the default or potential action. So, with all 
things considered Im satisfied that VWFS acted fairly when they terminated Mr Es 
agreement.
As Ive concluded that VWFS acted fairly in relation to the termination of Mr Es agreement, I 
dont require VWFS to take any action in respect of this complaint. I leave it to Mr E to liaise 
with VWFS to agree the next steps in relation to the settlement of any amounts owed.
I invited both parties to make any further comments. 
VWFS responded to say they had nothing further to add to my provisional decision. Mr E responded to say that he didnt accept it. Mr E made some further comments and 
provided some further evidence. In summary, he said he was forced into taking the ATP and 
his credit file had been impacted. Ill address these in more detail below, however, the 
evidence Mr E provided satisfied me that the complaint should be upheld. 
As my outcome had changed from my provisional decision, I sent a further email to both 
parties in May and in June 2023, explaining why it had changed and what I proposed to put 
things right; I again invited both parties to make further comments. 
VWFS responded to say in the circumstances theyd be willing to reinstate the agreement for 
a period of 12-months. They also accepted my proposals for putting things right. However, 
they felt that Mr E should pay for the usage of the car since the agreement was terminated, if 
the car was returned to them.
Mr E responded with some comments which Ill also address below. He also requested a 
phone call with me to discuss my decision. Ombudsmen do not routinely speak with either 
party to a complaint by phone, however, as Mr E felt strongly about it, I gave him the 
opportunity to speak with me directly about his case, and having considered everything, I 
didn't believe it's was necessary for a further phone conversation to take place in order for 
me to reach my decision. Our investigator however, offered to have a phone conversation 
with Mr E, to discuss the case. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has made submissions which included phone recordings and some further testimony. I 
have considered all of what it has said. The response challenged certain conclusions Id 
reached in my provisional decision. Ill address what I consider to be the main points Mr E 
has raised and explain why these change the outcome I originally reached.
Within his responses Mr E made the following points:
1. that he was forced into entering a payment arrangement
2. that his credit file was impacted
3. that the car has lost value, so VWFS should absorb the related costs
4. that the compensation proposed is insufficient considering the impact to his mental 
health
The above is not exhaustive, but a summary of what I considered to be the main points 
raised in Mr Es responses to me. To be clear, Ive considered all the information provided by 
both parties in relation to this complaint, however to maintain the informal approach of this 
service Ive focussed on what Ive considered to be the main issues here.
entering into the ATP
During a phone call between VWFS and Mr E in December 2020, Mr E was told that the 
repayments from the payment break period (ATP) would be spread across the remaining 
term, and was to be paid in addition to his normal monthly repayments. So that would be a 
total of about £1,047 each month. During the phone call, I note that Mr E enquired about 
what the impact of the ATP would be on his credit file. When VWFS explained that his credit file would be amended where necessary, he then enquired about repaying the PD amount at 
the end of the agreement instead of alongside his normal monthly repayments. Mr E was 
told by VWFS that the system decides how the repayments would work. 
Mr E appeared to accept this explanation however he reiterated his main concern, which 
was the impact on his credit file, rather than the repayments being unaffordable.
In his submission to us, Mr E says he was forced into entering into the ATP and wasnt given 
the opportunity to have the agreement extended so he could repay it at the end of the 
original term. 
Having reviewed the call recordings and considered all the information, I acknowledge that 
VWFS didnt present Mr E with any other options to repay the PD amount, other than doing 
so alongside his normal monthly payments in the form of the ATP. I think that had Mr E been 
given the opportunity to extend his agreement, its unlikely he would have ended up in this 
situation. I say this because it was the irregular repayments of the ATP which resulted in Mr 
E being issued with the default notice and the agreement being terminated.
In November 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published updated guidance for 
businesses in relation to motor finance agreements and Covid-19. The guidance was 
applicable in the exceptional circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic and the 
impact it had on motor finance consumers. The guidance said:
Where a customer can resume full repayments after a payment deferral, but is unable to 
pay the deferred amounts immediately and in full, the firm should allow them to repay the 
deferred amounts over the remaining term of the agreement or allow a longer period for 
repayment. The firm should consider what is most in the customers interests.
Towards the end of the phone call with VWFS, Mr E appeared to be satisfied with the ATP, 
for example, by thanking the agent for their help. The statements show that Mr E was able to 
make the repayments to his agreement alongside the ATP, however it was the irregular 
nature of his ATP repayments that caused the account to be defaulted and terminated. 
So, I think it was clear Mr E was able to resume full payments of the original £754, however I 
think it was also clear from the call that it would have been more suitable for Mr E to have 
had a longer period for repaying the PD amount. Mr E specifically requested it. Im 
persuaded that had VWFS given Mr E a longer period, there would have been less chance 
of missed payments because the repayments would have been more affordable; which 
means the payments were less likely to be irregular, and so preventing the need for a default 
notice having to be issued.  
Impact to credit file
Mr E provided a copy of his credit file showing one late payment over a number of months. 
The credit file image doesnt however detail the affected months and doesnt specify the date 
of the report. So, Im unable to determine the specifics of the missed payment markers. 
During a phone call between Mr E and VWFS in December 2020, VWFS confirmed that the 
arrears in 2020 during the PD period were due to a missed payment from April 2020, prior to 
the start of the PD. Mr E accepted this conclusion. For example, he accepted that the 
manual payment he made in November 2020 settled the missed payment from April 2020.
Having considered all the information provided, my opinion in relation to the impact to Mr Es 
credit file has changed in that I think the arrears correspondence received during the PD was likely to be in relation to the missed payment in April 2020, which was only settled after the 
PD had ended. 
Having said that, Mr E has been consistent in his claim that his credit file has been affected. 
Although Im persuaded that VWFS intention was to rectify this, I havent seen any clear 
evidence that its been done. In addition, as Ive found that the agreement shouldnt have 
been terminated, I dont think Mr E should have any adverse information on his credit file in 
relation to this agreement from May 2020.
Putting things right
As Ive found that VWFS have acted unfairly in not allowing Mr E to repay the PD amount 
over a longer period, I think its fair that they put things right for him. As described above 
VWFS should remove any adverse information from Mr Es credit file in relation to his 
agreement from May 2020.
VWFS confirmed as of June 2023 that the outstanding balance on Mr Es account was 
£46,566.29. The amount is consistent with the statement of accounts as at January 2022. 
So, Im satisfied that no further interest or charges have been applied. They also confirmed 
that the agreement would have had around 12 months remaining at the time it was 
terminated. 
Having considered the fairest outcome in the circumstances, Ill be instructing VWFS to 
reinstate the agreement for a minimum of twelve months at the same monthly repayments 
as before (this was £754.24 as per the statement of accounts provided). VWFS should apply 
the same terms on the agreement as before. For example, Mr E should have the opportunity 
to repay the amount owed and to keep the car, to refinance any balloon payment at the end 
of the term, or to hand the car back and arrange for the balance to be settled, for example 
through the process of voluntary surrender.
However, if at the end of the 12 month term, or before, should Mr E decide to hand the car 
back, I think its fair that he should pay for the period of use from when the agreement was 
terminated in July 2021 up to the point of returning the car, and an amount not exceeding 
any remaining balance. This would include excess mileage charges and any unreasonable 
damage beyond fair wear and tear guidelines. 
If Mr E decides against purchasing the car, and instead chooses to return it to VWFS, I 
recognise theres likely to be a significant amount for Mr E to pay, for his continued usage as 
described above. Should Mr E be unable to settle the arrears in full at the point of returning 
the car, then VWFS should work with him to arrange a suitable repayment plan. For 
example, this should involve an affordability assessment based on an updated income and 
expenditure review. Mr E would do well to comply with this. In addition, I remind VWFS of its 
obligations under CONC to treat consumers in arrears with forbearance and due 
consideration. 
I acknowledge Mr E says that VWFS should absorb that cost, for example Mr E points out 
that the car would have likely depreciated in value. I dont dispute there may be a degree of 
depreciation, however this would have occurred whilst Mr E had full use of the car; and 
despite there being on ongoing complaint where VWFS put a hold on any repossession, I 
think its fair to say Mr E could have chosen to return the car himself, particularly if he wasnt 
prepared to pay for using it whilst the complaint was ongoing. All things considered, and in 
the circumstances of this case, I dont think its fair or reasonable to expect that Mr E would 
have use of a vehicle free from any charges or costs, at the expense of VWFS. In an email to our investigator in May 2023, Mr E described the distress and inconvenience 
this whole situation has caused. And in a further email in June 2023 Mr E said he felt my 
proposal for £300 in compensation was too low in consideration of the impact this has had 
on his mental health. Mr E has said that he experienced anxiety and depression as a result 
and that he felt £3,000 would be fair. 
I dont dispute the situation surrounding this complaint would have had been impactful to Mr 
E. However, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think that £3000 is significantly excessive. I 
havent seen any further evidence besides what Mr E has said that persuades me the 
amount of compensation should be greater. In the circumstances Im persuaded that £300 in 
addition to what VWFS have already offered fairly recognises any distress caused.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I uphold Mr Es complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited trading as Porsche Financial Services and instruct them to:
Reinstate or set up a new agreement for a period of at least twelve months, at the 
same monthly repayment amount as before, and for the total amount outstanding as 
of July 2021 when the agreement was terminated. 
Allow Mr E the option to purchase or return the car at the end of the revised 
agreement (or at any time before) in accordance with the relevant terms and 
conditions of it (which should be the same as what had on his original agreement).
- If Mr E chooses to return the car, he should be subject to the relevant end of 
contract charges in addition to paying for the time he had use of the vehicle from 
August 2021. If Mr E is unable to repay this amount in full, VWFS should 
support Mr E with a suitable repayment plan ( with the considerations as 
described in my decision).
Pay Mr E £300 compensation, in addition to what has already been offered, for the 
distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse information from Mr Es credit file in relation to this agreement 
from May 2020, when he entered into the payment holiday
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman