DRN-1955188
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing with 
his applications in relation to a mortgage in 2018 and 2019, and in how it dealt with an 
internal marker that shouldve been removed. He wants more compensation.
What happened
Mr A had a mortgage with HSBC and applied through a broker in 2019 to port the product, 
borrow more and change the ownership in order to move home. This was declined; Mr A 
believed it this was because his internal credit score with HSBC was too low due to how he 
had dealt with a credit card years earlier, which was subject to an internal marker. 
Mr A felt that hed been misled into taking out a five-year mortgage product when he took a 
mortgage product in July 2018 as he hadnt been told then that he couldnt borrow more 
money in the future. Mr A added that he wasnt able to afford to pay any early repayment 
charges and get a mortgage elsewhere.
Mr A complained to HSBC. It said Mr A was advised in 2018 simply about taking out a new 
product to replace an older one, which didnt involve a credit check in the circumstances as 
no more money was being borrowed. But when Mr A applied in 2019 to borrow more money, 
this did require a credit check which was when the problem with his status became clear. 
HSBC said in July 2018 when Mr A took out the new product, he was given the correct 
information about moving home, and that the ability to do so was subject to conditions. 
HSBC said its policies and procedures changed over time so it couldnt confirm further about 
what happened when Mr A first took out the mortgage, other than to say it followed its 
procedure at the time. It confirmed that Mr As application was unsuccessful because he 
wanted to borrow more money, but said it couldnt give him confidential details of its lending 
policies. It also dealt with a related complaint separately and removed the internal marker 
about the credit card issue as it had been on its records for longer than normal and paid £50 
compensation for this error.
Mr A complained to us. The investigators view was that HSBC wasnt at fault. He said that 
the information given to Mr A when he took out the five year product in 2018 told him he 
could only port if HSBC was satisfied with a credit check, affordability and the property itself. 
The investigator said that the product was portable and met Mr As needs. He pointed out 
that a mortgage adviser was unlikely to have access to information about the internal credit 
score, and an application was needed in any event to know if it would be accepted. 
The investigator added that Mr As 2019 application failed due to a combination of factors  
affordability, the low internal score, conduct of his previous relationship with HSBC and a 
high debt to income ratio. He thought it was fair and reasonable for HSBC to have declined 
the application, and didnt think the internal marker was a major issue when the 2019 
application was declined. The investigator said £50 compensation and the removal of the 
marker was fair and reasonable. A related complaint about Mr As bank account application 
was not considered as it was separate.
Mr A disagreed. He said his broker had been told there was no reason to decline the 
application and he felt that he was being punished for HSBCs mistake in not removing the 
internal marker earlier. The investigator pointed out that Mr As application failed for several 
reasons, which was why he didnt think the internal marker was a key reason. Mr A said the 
effect on his family had been ignored and wanted more compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to consider the issue of the bank account application mentioned by the 
investigator as its a separate complaint. Im going to focus on the mortgage complaint, and 
the core issues of the 2018 product, the refusal of the 2019 application and the internal 
marker.
The 2018 product
In essence, Mr A feels he shouldve been told at this point about the internal marker and the 
difficulties he was likely to face if he wanted to borrow more money. But this wasnt the 
purpose of the advice he received at this time. It was about whether a new mortgage product 
was suitable to meet his needs. As no credit check was required as no more money was 
being borrowed, the evidence available to me shows that the adviser couldnt have known 
about the internal marker as it wasnt relevant. It would be unfair and unreasonable to expect 
a lender to tell a customer about something that wasnt relevant to the purpose of the advice.
And it would be equally unfair and unreasonable for me to expect lenders to give advice 
about a customers ability to borrow money in the future at an unknown time. Financial 
circumstances change, as do lending policies.
Mr A says that he was misled to take out the product in 2018. But the information he was 
given is correct  the product can be ported, but this depends on an application being made 
(as there was no guarantee of success), the outcome of a credit check, affordability and the 
property itself. This was set out in writing to Mr A. He wasnt misled in my view.
The 2019 application
Mr A didnt apply to just port his mortgage product in July 2019 through a broker; he applied 
to borrow more money and add someone to the mortgage. This is a completely different 
application to simply porting a mortgage product. And while the broker did discuss the 
application, all applications are subject to a full consideration of the circumstances; theyre 
not decided based on a telephone call. Its also true that lenders can use their own 
commercial judgement to decide to whom theyre willing to lend and how much; theres no 
right to get a loan.
Mr As application failed for four reasons  affordability, the internal marker, conduct of his 
previous relationship with HSBC and his high debt to income ratio. In my view, the internal 
marker wasnt the major reason why the application failed  there were more important 
problems such as affordability, a critical factor a lender must consider, and these were of 
more weight. Indeed, the marker is likely to have existed when Mr A first took out the 
mortgage, which shows it wasnt a fundamental problem at all times. HSBC applied its 
lending policies in 2019 and theres no evidence before me to suggest it did so inconsistently 
in Mr As case or incorrectly.I cant say HSBC acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining the application in all the 
circumstances.
The internal marker
The evidence available to me is that the internal marker shouldve been removed in 2018. 
While Mr A has a separate complaint potentially about his bank account, in my view from a 
mortgage perspective, it wasnt until Mr A applied to borrow more money in 2019 that the 
marker became relevant. I anticipate this may be why it wasnt removed earlier but I would 
be speculating.
Ive already explained why it wasnt relevant in 2018 and why I dont think it was unfair or 
unreasonable for HSBC not to tell Mr A about it when he changed mortgage products in 
2018. Ive also explained why it wasnt critical to the refusal to lend in 2019; Mr A wasnt 
being punished for the failure to remove it  his 2019 application failed for other reasons.
HSBC has accepted that the marker shouldve been removed earlier and has now removed 
it. Money isnt truly able to compensate someone for trouble and upset, but much of Mr As 
trouble and upset is about his ability to get what he wanted in 2019, not this issue. I think 
£50 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
13 January 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman