DRN-4032621
The complaint
Mr S complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S applied for a credit card with Aqua in March 2019. Aqua approved the application and 
gave Mr S a credit card with an initial credit limit of £900.
Mr S says that Aqua lent to him irresponsibly.
Aqua didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. But as gesture of goodwill it offered to refund all 
interest and fees, The refunds were applied to reduce the balance on the account.
Mr S remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that Aqua hadnt carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks and that had it done so, it wouldve seen that Mr S was struggling 
financially and wouldve been unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the borrowing. The 
investigator concluded that Aqua had lent irresponsibly.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view. He said he thought the balance on the account 
should be written off.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that Aqua had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Mr S could afford to repay the debt in a  sustainable way. 
These affordability checks need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The nature 
of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors 
including the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, the cost 
of the credit and the customers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive set out above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending is set out on our 
website, Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ss complaint.
Ive thought about whether Aqua carried out reasonable and proportionate checks and 
whether the lending decision was fair. Aqua has said it used information provided by Mr S 
and verified this using external sources and credit bureau tools.
Ive looked at the information gathered by Aqua. The credit checks shows that Mr S had 8 
accounts in default with a total default balance of around £40,000. I think this shouldve 
alerted Aqua to the fact that Mr S was in financial difficulty and that it was unlikely that he 
would be able to afford to sustainably repay further borrowing.
Looking at everything, I think Aqua lent irresponsibly to Mr S.
Putting things right
Because I think Aqua lent irresponsibly to Mr S, I dont think its fair to charge interest or 
charges under the agreement. However, Mr S has had the benefit of the money hes spent 
on the account so I think he should pay back any balance outstanding after interest and 
charges have been removed.
NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua should: -
Rework the account removing all interest and charges
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr S along with 8% 
interest per year calculated  from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Aqua should also remove all adverse information regarding the account from Mr Ss credit 
file.
If, after the rework there is a balance outstanding, Aqua must agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr S. Once Mr S has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to 
the account should be removed from Mr Ss credit file.
As Aqua has sold the account to a third party it should either buy back the account or liaise 
with the third party to ensure that the redress is carried out.
HMRC requires Aqua to deduct tax from any award of interest. Aqua must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he askes for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua must take the 
steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman