DRN-4243745
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with Go Car 
Credit Limited (GCC) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2022, Ms M was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with GCC. She paid an advance payment of £480, and the agreement was for £9,515 over 
40 months; with monthly repayments of £436.36. At the time the car was almost eight years 
old and had done 91,378 miles.
Ms M has said that the car developed a noise and she contacted the supplying dealership 
about this in March 2022. However, the noise went away, and she didnt have it looked at. 
Shes also said that the car broke down in June 2022, and needed a new battery, and then it 
developed a transmission fluid leak in July 2022. At this point the car had done around 
97,000 miles and Ms M says the car has been undrivable since. 
Ms M complained to GCC in July 2022, and they offered to inspect the car for any faults that 
were present at the point of supply. But they said that Ms M would need to arrange for the 
car to be recovered and taken to the inspection, which she wasnt financially able to do 
because of the cost. Because of this, GCC didnt uphold her complaint. 
Ms M wasnt happy with GCCs response, and she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said there was a fault with the car, but without an inspection taking place 
she couldnt say if the fault was present or developing when the car was supplied to Ms M. 
And she didnt think it was reasonable to say GCC should do something to put things right 
without any evidence. So, she didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms M didnt agree with the investigator and said that it wasnt reasonable for GCC to expect 
her to pay to have the car recovered to a location where it could be inspected, and she 
couldnt afford the cost of recovery as her priority bills were in arrears. She also explained 
the impact that not having access to a car has had on her and her family.
GCC said they were prepared to reimburse £60 of the cost of any recovery, and Ms M 
eventually managed to arrange for an inspection of the car to take place in February 2023. 
And this said the car had a driveshaft oil leak. After sight of this report, GCC said they were 
willing to assist the customer with the cost of the repairs.
Following this, Ms M had to pay for the car to be transported to a specialist garage, who then 
repaired the car. And GCC covered the cost of this repair.
The investigator issued a second view. She said that the car had been successfully repaired 
so Ms M didnt have any right of rejection. And she said that Ms M shouldnt have to pay any 
payments between the fault being diagnosed in February 2023 and it being repaired in June 
2023, and any adverse entries relating to these payments should be removed from her credit 
file. But she thought that Ms M should be responsible for the payments between July 2022 
and February 2023 because, even though Ms M hadnt had use of the car because it was 
faulty, she hadnt arranged for the fault with the car to be diagnosed.
The investigator also said that GCC should refund Ms M the £260 recovery and inspection 
costs shed incurred (plus statutory interest), pay for the costs of the repair to the car, and 
pay Ms M £150 for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused. 
Ms M didnt accept the investigators second view, as she didnt think it was reasonable for 
her to have to pay for the car while it was undrivable. Ms M has also said that the car has 
now developed additional faults and she wants to reject the car.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 August 2023, where I explained my intention to uphold 
the complaint. In that decision I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Ms M was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, GCC 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless GCC can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Ms M to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Ms M took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask GCC to put this right.
In this instance, its not disputed there was a fault with the car, or that this fault made the car 
of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied. And GCC have already arranged for the car to be 
repaired. Given this, my decision will focus on what else, if anything, GCC need to do to put 
things right.
The car developed a fault within the first six months of it being supplied to Ms M and, as a 
result of this, she was told at the point of breakdown not to drive the car. And this advice was 
confirmed as correct when the car was eventually inspected by an independent garage. And, 
as Ive said above, given when the fault occurred, the CRA implies the fault was present on 
supply unless GCC can show otherwise.
The issue here is not the fault itself, but the length of time it took for the fault to be 
diagnosed. And Ms M has explained the pressures on her income, and the fact that she was 
in arrears with priority bills, which meant that she didnt have the disposable income to pay 
for the car to be recovered from her place of work (where it broke down) to a garage that could inspect the car and identify the fault. Because of this, the car remained at her place of 
work, unused, from July 2022 to February 2023.
GCC offered to pay £60 towards the cost of recovery, but this offer was made on a 
reimbursement basis. Which meant that Ms M would still need to find the full cost of the 
recovery upfront. And, for the reasons given, this was financially beyond her at the time. So, 
while GCC made this offer, to Ms M at the time it was essentially a non-offer.
When she raised her complaint with GCC in July 2022, Ms M explained that she wanted the 
car repaired or replaced. And Ive noted that section 23 of the CRA says:
(2) if the consumer requires the trader to replace or repair the goods, the trader must  
(a) do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the 
customer. 
Whats more, the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principle 6 says a firm must pay due regard 
to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Given the fact that the breakdown took place within the first six months, that Ms M had 
reached out to them and explained her vulnerabilities surrounding her children and financial 
situation, and that GCC were prepared to pay towards the recovery costs; Im satisfied that 
by not arranging the recovery GCC didnt follow Principle 6 and were at serious risk of 
breaching section 23 of the CRA. And, had the car not now been repaired, I wouldve 
seriously considered saying that GCC had, by their actions, waived their right for a single 
chance at repair and that Ms M had the right of rejection.
Im also aware that Ms M has now said the car has developed a further fault. But I havent 
seen that Ms M has raised this with GCC. And I also havent seen anything to show me if 
this relates to the initial fault i.e., its an unsuccessful repair, or whether this is a new fault, 
and when it was likely present or developing. So, this isnt something Ill address within my 
decision.
So, for the reasons given, I dont agree with the investigator that Ms M should be responsible 
for the payments between July 2022 and February 2023 and that she was responsible for 
the delay in getting the car recovered. The car was unusable, due to a fault that was present 
at the point of supply, between July 2022 (when it broke down) and June 2023 (when it was 
repaired). Whats more, GCC did nothing to try and keep Ms M mobile during this period. 
And I dont consider it fair or reasonable that Ms M should have to pay for a car that she 
couldnt use during this period.
In addition to this, GCC should also refund the costs Ms M incurred in having the car 
recovered to both the initial garage, and then the specialist garage for the repair work, and 
the costs of any inspections she had done.
Finally, Im satisfied that Ms M has been significantly inconvenienced and frustrated by 
whats happened. Despite the car breaking down within six months of supply, and Ms M 
advising GCC of this, they continued to ask her to pay for the car to be recovered and 
inspected before they would consider whether they needed to pay for the costs of repair. 
So, I think GCC should:
refund any payments Ms M has made from August 2022 to June 2023;
reimburse Ms M the £260 recovery/inspection costs she paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on these amounts, calculated from the date Ms M 
made the payments to the date of the refund ;pay the costs of the repairs done to the car;
remove any adverse entries relating to the above payments on Ms Ms credit file; and
pay Ms M an additional £150 to compensate her for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires GCC to take off tax from this interest. GCC must give Ms 
M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
Responses
Ms M said she wanted to reject the car from the outset, but she was told this wasnt an 
option. She also raised the issues with the current fault with the car, that shed been in touch 
with GCC about this, and that she now feels shes back in the same position as when the car 
first broke down in July 2022.
Ms M also said that, due to the high interest rate and payments on the agreement with GCC, 
this resulted in her having no disposable income with which to arrange for the car to be 
inspected.
GCC responded to my provisional decision, almost a week after the deadline for doing so, 
asking if Ms M had accepted my opinion. They made no further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As GCC havent said anything to the contrary, Im taking their comments to mean they dont 
object to my provisional decision.
Ive noted Ms Ms comments about her wanting to reject the car. And that the car has now 
developed a further fault. However, the initial fault with the car has been repaired. While 
there is a further fault, I havent seen anything to show me that this is either related to the 
initial fault (so it would therefore be classed as a failed repair) or whether its an unrelated 
fault. And, if its an unrelated fault, whether this was present or developing at the point the 
car was supplied to Ms M.
So, while I appreciate Ms Ms frustration with the issues with the car, as I explained in my 
provisional decision, without the above evidence, the second fault with the car isnt 
something that will form part of this decision.
As such, Ms Ms comments dont change my view about what GCC shouldve done when 
the car first broke down. And, given this, I see no compelling reason why I shouldnt now 
adopt my provisional view as my final decision.
Putting things right
Given the above, if they havent already done so, GCC should:
refund any payments Ms M has made from August 2022 to June 2023;
reimburse Ms M the £260 recovery/inspection costs she paid;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on these amounts, calculated from the date Ms M 
made the payments to the date of the refund ;
pay the costs of the repairs done to the car;remove any adverse entries relating to the above payments on Ms Ms credit file; and
pay Ms M an additional £150 to compensate her for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires GCC to take off tax from this interest. GCC must give Ms 
M a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Ms Ms complaint. Go Car Credit Limited should 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman