DRN-2847364
The complaint
Ms Cs complaint is about a mortgage account with Mortgages plc. Ms C is unhappy that a 
payment made to redeem the mortgage via a third partys account was returned by 
Mortgages plc and was not used to pay off the mortgage. 
Ms C is also unhappy that Mortgages plc failed to respond to her representative, Mr S, and 
that it has contacted her about the mortgage, which she believed was paid off in January 
2020.
To settle the complaint, Ms C would like an apology, and a refund of fees and charges 
added to the account since January 2020. Ms C would also like to be compensated for 
financial loss and trouble and upset caused to her.
The complaint has been brought on Ms Cs behalf by Mr S.
What happened
The events leading up to the complaint can be summarised briefly. On 22 January 2020 
Mortgages plc was sent a payment of £30,042.05 to redeem Ms Cs mortgage. However, the 
payment had not come from Ms C, but was sent by Mr S from his account. 
On 23 January 2020 Mortgages plc telephoned Ms C, who said she would call back, but did 
not. On 24 January 2020 Mortgages plc spoke to Ms C and explained that they needed to 
know where the payment had come from. Ms C said they should speak to Mr S. It was 
explained to Ms C that, although Mr S had Ms Cs authority to discuss the account, there 
was no third party authority to allow him to make payments on her behalf and so the money 
would have to be returned. 
Ms C said she would speak to Mr S and would call back in half an hour, but she did not. The 
payment was returned to the originating bank on 27 January 2020. Over the next few 
months Mortgages plc tried to contact Ms C, but without success.
On 8 June 2020 Mr S wrote to Mortgages plc, but the letter was overlooked and not replied 
to until 29 July 2020.
On 30 June 2020 Ms C telephoned Mortgages plc. She was unhappy that she was receiving 
text messages and phone calls. Ms C said she had paid off her mortgage in January, but the 
payment had been returned.  Ms C said nobody had contacted her to tell her this. Ms C was 
also unhappy that Mr Ss letter had not been responded to.
On 29 July 2020 Mortgages plc issued its final response letter. In the letter it was explained 
that it wasnt possible to accept a payment from a third party and that this had been 
discussed with Ms C on 24 January 2020. Mortgages plc clarified that the majority of its 
contact since then had been to see if Ms C had been affected by the pandemic and needed 
any assistance from Mortgages plc. However, it hadnt been able to speak to Ms C.
Mortgages plc didnt uphold the complaint about returning the money. But it was 
acknowledged that the letter from Mr S sent on 8 June 2020 should have received an earlier 
response. Mortgages plc offered Ms C compensation of £25 for this.
Dissatisfied with this, Ms C (through Mr S) brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. An investigator looked at it but didnt think Mortgages plc had acted 
unfairly. He noted Ms C had been advised within two days of receipt that the payment 
couldnt be accepted and that she had said she would speak to Mr S and call back  but did 
not.
The investigator also thought the contact from Mortgages plc after that was appropriate, and 
wasnt persuaded that Ms C had been harassed. He explained that third party authority to 
discuss the account didnt mean Mortgages plc was required to substitute Mr S as the main 
correspondent on the account. Consequently, he didnt think Mortgages plc had done 
anything wrong in contacting Ms C.
Mr S, on behalf of Ms C, didnt agree with the investigators findings. In his response dated 
26 May 2021, Mr S said he was dissatisfied at the length of time it had taken for the 
complaint to be dealt with  which he attributed to racial discrimination based on Ms Cs 
ethnicity. Mr S also made various points about when the investigators letter was deemed 
served and what constitutes a working day for the purpose of service of documents.
Mr S also said that Ms C was not concerned with the appearance of fairness or unfairness. 
Rather, Ms C wanted to know if Mortgages plc was permitted to reject the payment, and 
under which financial regulation or financial law this was sanctioned.
Mr S asked that the complaint be escalated under the next steps protocol either within the 
Financial Ombudsman Service or to some higher body that has overarching and 
substantive authority to further investigate this most serious complaint directed to a member 
of the public within the financial service sector.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by clarifying that the Financial Ombudsman Service is a service set up by 
Parliament under the Financial Service and Markets Act 2000 to investigate disputes 
between financial businesses and their customers. We are not a regulator or a court, and our 
processes are informal. We are not subject to the rules of service contained in the Civil 
Procedure Rules, nor any protocol. The rules under which we operate, known as the DISP 
rules, are published by the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
I will also mention that our complaints process doesnt include us obtaining any information 
about a consumers ethnic origin. So although Ive noted Mr Ss perception that the delay in 
dealing with Ms Cs complaint might be as a result of her ethnic origin, there was no 
information in our file from which Ms Cs ethnic origin could be known, until we received 
Mr Ss letter of 26 May 2021 in which Ms Cs ethnic origin is first alluded to.
That said, I am sorry for the delay in the complaint being allocated to an investigator, which 
took longer than we would have liked, due to the pandemic. But once it was with the 
investigator, I can see he was able to look into the complaint quickly. Mr S says that Ms C isnt concerned with fairness or unfairness. But I am legally required 
and duty bound, under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, to reach a decision on 
the basis of what I think is fair and reasonable. This is the overarching principle under which 
the Financial Ombudsman Service operates.
Turning now to the complaint points, Ive reviewed what happened. Im satisfied that 
Mortgages plc contacted Ms C the day after the money was received to pay off the 
mortgage. She wasnt able to discuss the matter that day, but did so the following day, 
24 January 2020, when Ms C was told that the third party payment would need to be 
returned. I note Ms C told Mortgages plc in June 2020 that nobody had explained this to her, 
but I am afraid she is mistaken about this. 
So Im satisfied that Ms C was made aware of the position almost immediately after the 
payment had been made. Consequently, Ms C could, I find, have taken steps to arrange for 
the payment to be made to her, and then transferred from her account to Mortgages plc.
There are various legitimate reasons why mortgage lenders (not just Mortgages plc but other 
lenders) wont accept third party payments. 
One reason is that, where a third party who is not on the account makes payment towards a 
mortgage, that party might later claim an equitable or beneficial interest in the property as a 
result of having paid the mortgage. This generally arises in situations where the parties are 
cohabiting but only one is on the property title and mortgage account, which I understand is 
not the situation here. But in any event, Mortgages plc is entitled to ensure that its security 
isnt affected by third party payments that might give rise to a claim for an equitable interest 
in the property. As a result, Mortgages plc will not accept third party payments from an 
unknown source.
But the main reason lenders generally dont accept third party payments is because of anti-
money laundering regulations, more specifically The Money Laundering, Terrorist Financing 
and Transfer of Funds (Information on the Payer) Regulations 2017. 
At this juncture, I must emphasise that I am not in any way accusing Ms C or Mr S of money 
laundering, but Mr S asked for clarification of why the payment was refused, and I am 
providing that clarification. 
Borrowing funds to purchase a property presents a number of options for laundering money. 
The most obvious option may seem to be at inception with the payment of the deposit, but in 
my experience this option is rarely used. This is because someone wanting to launder funds 
will know that this stage of the process requires both the conveyancing solicitor and 
mortgage lender to carry out thorough KYC (Know Your Customer) checks. So a more likely 
method for successful laundering is through either the regular overpayment or a one-off 
overpayment of a loan. 
Because of this, all mortgage lenders are required to know  and are entitled to ask  about 
the source of payments if those payments are not made from the customers own bank 
account from which regular payments are received, even more so if the payment is a large 
lump sum as it was in this case. If the source of the funds cant be confirmed, Mortgages plc 
has a process in place to reject payments from third parties who do not have payment 
authority for the account in question. Im satisfied it is reasonable for Mortgages plc to have 
a process to ensure compliance with money-laundering regulations.In Ms Cs case, there was no third party payment authority on file, only a third party authority 
from October 2019 for Mr S to discuss the account. In the circumstances, I dont think 
Mortgages plc did anything wrong in rejecting the payment where there was no authority to 
receive it. I also think it was reasonable for Mortgages plc to contact Ms C rather than Mr S. 
Ms C is the account holder, and so was the most obvious party to be able to provide 
confirmation of the source of the funds.
Im satisfied Ms C knew on 24 January 2020 that the funds were to be returned. I also think 
its likely Mr S would, or should, have known the money had been returned to his bank 
account on 27 January 2020. Given this, I think Ms C had the opportunity by the end of 
January 2020 to mitigate her position by arranging for Mr S to make the payment directly to 
her, so that Ms C could forward the money on to Mortgages plc to redeem her mortgage.
Because Ms C did not mitigate her position, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
for there to be any refund of interest, fees or charges on the account, nor any adjustment to 
Ms Cs credit file. 
Mortgages plc has offered Ms C £25 for not responding to Mr Ss letter of complaint dated 
8 June 2020 until 29 July 2020. Mortgages plc did, in fact, respond to the complaint within 
eight weeks of receiving it, in compliance with DISP 1.6.2, but should have acknowledged 
receipt of the complaint promptly. 
The way in which Mortgages plc deals with complaints isnt an activity covered by our rules, 
but I can see a payment of £25 has been offered for not acknowledging the letter, which 
seems fair in the circumstances.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms C was hoping for, but after taking account of 
everything that happened, Im satisfied Mortgages plc hasnt done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman