DRN-2597582
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Barclays Funds Limited closed his account under their account 
dormancy process.
What happened
Mr S has a US dollars bank account with Barclays. In July 2020, Mr S logged on to view his 
account, but the account wasnt showing online. Mr S contacted Barclays who said that 
because Mr S hadnt used the account for a prolonged period of time, the account had been 
closed under their account dormancy process.
Barclays also explained to Mr S that he could reactive the account but that he would need to 
visit a Barclays branch to do so. But Mr S was in America at the time, which meant that he 
couldnt visit a branch. 
Mr S wasnt happy that Barclays had considered his account dormant, and that he hadnt 
been notified by Barclays that this was the case. So, he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr Ss complaint. They felt that they had followed the account dormancy 
process appropriately and noted that they had sent a letter to Mr Ss address in advance of 
the account becoming dormant advising him of the steps he needed to take if he wanted the 
account to remain active. So, they didnt uphold this aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
However, Barclays acknowledged that they had not dealt with Mr Ss complaint in a timely 
manner and that Mr S had been given conflicting information by Barclays when he had fist 
contacted them about the issue, so they made a payment to Mr S of £100 by way of 
compensation for this.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. After a lengthy review, they felt that it had 
been reasonable that Barclays closed the account under their dormancy process, and they 
also felt that the level of compensation that Barclays had already paid Mr S was fair and 
reasonable. So, they also didnt uphold Mr ss complaint.
Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find that Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator here, and for 
the same reasons.
Barclays have confirmed that their process is to consider closing an account as being 
dormant if that account isnt used for more than two years. Mr Ss account hadnt been used 
for over three years at the time that Mr S noticed that the account was no longer showing 
online.
I note that Mr S has questioned the wording of the account terms and conditions, which state 
only that an account will be considered as being dormant if it isnt used for a long time. Mr S 
is concerned by the vagueness of the term long time, and questions whether his account 
could be considered as being unused for a long time. I agree that the term in question here 
does allow for a degree of subjectivity, but in this instance, Im satisfied that a period of over 
two years without activity can be considered as being a long time. 
Mr S has also explained that he didnt receive any notification from Barclays that they were 
considering closing his account as dormant. However, Barclays have been able to 
demonstrate that they sent a letter to Mr Ss address two months in advance of their closing 
his account notifying him of their intention and explaining what Mr S needed to do if he 
wanted the account to remain active. Barclays have also explained that a copy of this letter 
was uploaded to Mr Ss online storage facility, and an email was sent to Mr S advising him 
that this letter was available for him to view.
Mr S has raised several objections on this point: He has explained that he was in the US, but 
the letter was sent to a UK address  his parents address  and he notes that his parents 
never received the letter that Barclays say that they sent. Mr S also believes that Barclays 
efforts to contact him didnt go far enough and that they should have attempted to reach him 
via other channels, especially considering that Mr S elected for paperless statements and so 
maintained his account without the need for paper correspondence.
However, the UK address was the address registered on Mr Ss account, and so it was 
appropriate that Barclays sent the letter to that address. And, as mentioned, Barclays have 
demonstrated that the letter was sent. Barclays also made a copy of the letter available 
online for Mr S, and sent him an email to notify him of that letter. So, while I can understand 
how Mr S might feel that Barclays should have attempted to contact him via other channels, 
the use of email to attempt to contact Mr S was another channel that Barclays used in this 
instance. And Im not convinced that its reasonable to expect Barclays to have done more 
than this. 
Im aware that Mr S feels strongly that Barclays havent been able to evidence that the letter 
was received by his parents. But the delivery and receipt of letters isnt something over 
which a business has any control  this is the remit of the organisation delivering the letter. 
For this reason, this service would only expect a business to be able to demonstrate that 
they have sent a letter, and we wouldnt ask or expect a business to be able to confirm 
receipt of that letter. And Barclays have demonstrated that the letter was sent, and that a 
copy of the letter was made available to Mr S online. So, Im satisfied that Barclays fulfilled 
their obligation to provide a notification to Mr S that they were preparing to close his account 
under their account dormancy process.
Finally, Mr S has disputed whether Barclays did make a copy of the letter available for him to 
view online. But Barclays have been able to demonstrate that the letter was made available 
for Mr S to view online in March 2020.
So, considering all of the above, its difficult for me to conclude that Barclays have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here, and so it follows that I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr Ss 
complaint.
I note that Mr S is also dissatisfied with the £100 compensation paid to him by Barclays in 
relation to the conflicting information he was given and for the delay in Barclays responding 
to his complaint. Compensation is always a subjective issue, but this amount feels fair to me, and I must note that its commensurate with what this service would expect, given the 
circumstances here.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action here, beyond that 
which they have already taken.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman