DRN-3153064
The complaint
Mr M has complained to Admiral Insurance Company Limited when it arranged repairs to his 
car following a claim under his car insurance policy. He says the repairs were poor and left 
his car unsafe to drive.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr Ms daughter, a named driver, was involved in an incident with another 
vehicle and made a claim to Mr Ms insurer, Admiral following an incident. Admiral arranged 
for an approved repairer to carry out the repairs.
Mr M complained to Admiral. He said there was a knocking noise that wasnt there before 
the incident. Mr M said that although the front of the car had been damaged in the incident, 
the impact had caused the car to spin. And so he said it was possible that damage to the 
rear of the car was caused by the incident. 
Admiral instructed an independent assessor (IA) to consider Mr Ms concerns. In August 
2020 the IA reported that the damage to the rear near side and both rear wheels and tyres 
could have been caused by the incident. So Admiral agreed for additional repairs to be 
carried out. 
Mr M remained unhappy and he took his car to a local garage which Ill call J. They said the 
car hadnt been properly repaired. 
Admiral instructed the IA to inspect Mr Ms car at garage J. In October 2020 the IA found 
some of the issues raised by the local garage were not related to the incident. Mr M had 
complained about an overspray. The IA said as the paint was water based, any overspray to 
the underneath of the car would wash away or disappear with time. So Admiral didnt uphold 
the complaint, But as a goodwill gesture it paid Mr M £30 to meet the costs of a valet. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked us to look at things for him in October 2020. In the meantime 
Admiral agreed to consider a report Mr M provided from J.
In January 2021 Admiral agreed to cover the costs to repair the rear wheel bearings as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator thought Admiral had properly considered Mr Ms complaint. So he didnt 
recommend it should be upheld. 
Mr M didnt agree. Hed approached another garage which Ill call S and obtained a further 
report in June 2021.Our investigator sent this to Admiral. Admiral maintained that it had 
acted correctly. 
So as Mr M doesnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for us to decide a claim. We look at the available evidence and whether an insurer 
has properly investigated a claim and if its reached its decision in a reasonable way and in 
line with the policy. 
My decision doesnt go into the same level of detail as to the background of this case - as 
this is well known to both parties. But Ive carefully considered everything and my decision 
focuses on the salient points raised by Mr M that he remains unhappy with. 
The report from garage S reads that the car had overspray to the underside, passenger door 
trim and mirror cover. The report said aftermarket parts had been used and spacers had 
been used to fill gaps in panels to make them fit. And a headlight had been replaced with a 
non- manufactured part. 
It said the front lower skirt section of the bumper hadnt been fitted correctly and a second 
valance was missing. 
A mechanical assessment was also carried out by S. They reported that three axle bolts 
were found to be slack bearing witness marks from a socket or impact gun. They said these 
should have been set at alignment and torqued to spec. The garage said it carried out a 
geometry test and found the near side front was just out of spec which they rectified. The 
findings in this report were included in Js report in November 2020  which the IA had 
already addressed.
In response to the points raised by S, the IA said any overspray would wash away from the 
parts of the car where it was showing. Its not clear to me if Mr M has attempted to do this 
from the subsequent reports provided. 
Mr M is unhappy that non manufacturer parts were used to repair his car. I can see from the 
approved repairer report that this includes an invoice for replacement parts to a third party 
supplier which says they provide genuine manufacturer parts for the make of Mr Ms car. 
And the IA considered the invoice and found only the replacement headlight wasnt an 
original equipment (OE) part. As it isnt within the policy for Admiral to use only manufacturer 
parts, I dont think its acted unreasonably here. 
Mr M said the front lower skirt of his car was missing when it was returned post repair. The 
IA explained that a photo of the trim  which Mr M says shows it existed but wasnt part of 
the repair - shows two smaller pieces of the trim that were broken from the largest piece of 
the time  and when it was re-assembled onto the car, the smaller piece is hidden beneath 
the larger piece. The IA said it isnt visible unless the part is stripped. Admiral has previously 
provided Mr M with photos highlighting the parts to support the IAs position. 
Mr M says the car was returned to them when it was unsafe to drive. Mr M reported that the 
noise occurred when the car reached 70 mph. I dont think it was unreasonable for the AR 
not to have identified this issue when carrying out a test drive before returning the car unless 
they test drove it at that speed.
Admiral initially thought it wasnt possible for there to be damage to the rear of the car as 
there was no impact here. But on reconsideration as to what happened on impact (the car 
had spun), it agreed to cover repairs to both rear wheels and tyres, as well as the nearside 
hub bearing. I think this was reasonable. The cars wheel alignment has been a subject of dispute between both garages J and S and 
the IA. I can see that in November 2020 J say they carried out a geometry check and it didnt 
match the readings provided by the AR when they carried out repairs. But I can only see 
photos from the AR of their readings  and no evidence of the readings found by J attached 
to their report. 
In June 2021, S said they carried out a four wheel geometry check and found the nearside 
front was just out of spec which it rectified. 
The IA said that a geometry check will only be required; if the Insureds mechanic were to fit 
a new left hand front track rod end which from the alignment data attached to the (name of 
AR report inserted here) would suggest there is no need to replace the part at this time due 
to what must be very slight wear and tear issues.
The IA provided comments - which Admiral say remain in light of the most recent report from 
S - for the following issues:
 LHF track rod end has play in it.
Comment = There is no obvious sign of impact trauma and from the initial impact 
damage as viewed within the images prior to repairs commencing there is nothing 
that draws us to conclude that this is accident related especially when the geometry 
was in a position to be adjusted only but the Insureds mechanic has shown us that 
there is play in the ball joint on the track rod end which we would in this instance 
suggest to be wear and tear.
RHR axle bolts loose (already dealt with).
Comment = There are marks where the washers between the bolts and rear axle 
appear to have been moving, however, we do not understand the reasoning for 
loosening them off in the first instance as the original geometry shows all the rear 
specification to be correctly within the permitted guidelines with as it transpired an 
alleged worn wheel bearing on the rear axle which has been changed along with two 
wheels. The Insureds mechanic has stated they have tightened the bottles and re-
torqued them to the correct setting, therefore, the fact the bolts now have markings 
on them from having had a socket applied does not help establish the reason for 
loosening them off in the first instance or when, where or who did with the above 
note in mind this item has no additional comment and has been concluded to a 
satisfactory outcome by the Insureds mechanic.
Admiral considered the report provided by S and said it would need evidence by way of 
photos or video evidence to support it. Admiral says its satisfied it has provided sufficient 
information from the IA to support its decision not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Where there is a dispute of this nature, I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to ask for 
photo or video evidence to support the mechanics opinion which contradicts the opinion of 
the IA. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2021.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman