DRN-3984080
The complaint
Mr D complains about fees charged by Colbourne & Company in order to manage his 
investments.
Mr D is using a representative to bring his complaint but for ease I will refer to all actions as 
being those of Mr D
What happened
In mid 2022 Mr D complained to Colbourne & Company when he heard they had stopped 
providing any regulated activities.
Mr D was unhappy with the service provided and asked for a refund of the fees he had been 
paying to Colbourne & Company to manage his investments.  
Colbourne & Company didnt respond to the complaint so one of our Investigators looked 
into what happened. They also didnt receive any substantive response from Colbourne & 
Company so reached out to the platform provider of Mr Ds investments for information.   
Our Investigator upheld the complaint saying that Colbourne & Company should repay a 
total of £2,350 worth of fees that had been charged. They had seen no evidence of an 
ongoing advisory service for which Mr D was being charged. They thought it was reasonable 
to conclude that the fees were charged without justification and should not have been taken 
from Mr Ds investment.
Colbourne & Company didnt respond to our Investigator, so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.
Our rules
When coming to a decision Ive considered the rules set down by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) in the Dispute Resolution Sourcebook (DISP). These are the rules that give 
the Financial Ombudsman Service powers to resolve complaints.
Colbourne & Company have not replied to requests for information on multiple occasions. 
Nor did they respond to our Investigators view of the complaint explaining how they thought 
it should be resolved. 
One of the objectives of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve complaints 
informally and at the earliest possible stage, this is reflected in the rules:
DISP 3.5.1 The Ombudsman will attempt to resolve complaints at the earliest possible stage 
and by whatever means appear to him to be most appropriate, including mediation and 
investigation. 
The rules also allow me to reach a decision on limited information: 
DISP 3.5.9 The Ombudsman may: 
(3) reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take into account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested
Im satisfied this rule applies here as Colbourne & Company have failed to provide the 
information requested or respond in any substantive way. 
Alongside this the rules allow the fixing of time limits for a response:
DISP 3.5.13 The Ombudsman may fix (and extend) time limits for any aspect of the 
consideration of a complaint by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Colbourne & Company were first made aware of this complaint by email in September 2022. 
On 20 October 2022 Colbourne & Company said I will respond as soon as possible but this 
didnt happen and on this complaint we have not been provided with any reason for the lack 
of response.
Our Investigator reminded Colbourne & Company of their obligations to provide information 
and also gave warning that if there was no response an assessment would be made on the 
evidence currently held.
Im satisfied time limits for information requests were appropriately set and communicated 
with Colbourne & Company. I also dont think the reasons provided, based on the lack of 
detail, are exceptional or warrant any further extension of time. Emails have been sent to the 
address declared on the FCA register for Colbourne & Company and we have previously 
received responses using those details.
Because of the non-cooperation of Colbourne & Company Im basing my decision on the 
information I have been provided with which is allowed under the rules: 
DISP 3.5.14 If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:
(1) proceed with consideration of the complaint, and
(2)Include provision for any material distress or material inconvenience caused by that 
failure in any award which he decides to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D took advice from Colbourne & Company in 2004 and 2018. Since 2018 Mr D has been 
charged an advisor specified fee on nine occasions which ordinarily relates to advice being 
given by his adviser. Ive referred to this as an ongoing advisory fee throughout.
Mr D holds two investment accounts an Individual Savings Account (ISA) and a General 
Investment Account (GIA).
Due to the non-response from Colbourne & Company I dont have a copy of the advisory 
service agreement so cant say exactly what service Mr D was paying for. 
Id expect Colbourne & Company to have contacted Mr D sometime between 2018 and 2021 
to discuss his investments and see if they were still meeting his needs  at a minimum, 
providing advice for which it appears he has been charged for. However Ive not seen any 
evidence this occurred and Mr D says this never happened. The only transaction during the time the fees were being charged was a fund switch on both 
the ISA and GIA in June 2019. For this Mr D was charged £100 on each account. Theres no 
evidence about why this transaction took place, nothing to show what the fee was for nor 
any proof the swap was initiated due to advice from Colbourne & Company. 
Our Investigator thought it possible that the £200 was for advice to switch, though theres no 
evidence of this. I think its just as likely that the fees were a transaction fee that wouldve 
been charged with or without advice. Either way these fees werent the same as the other 
advisory fees which were £600 per time. 
Because of the lack of information from Colbourne & Company I cant say for certain what 
these fees were for. But looking at all the information I do have I think, on balance, these 
fees were attached to the fund switch that happened and werent fees for an ongoing 
advisory service.  Because of this I dont think these particular fees need to be refunded.  
Ive considered everything Ive been provided with and also taken into account the failure of 
Colbourne & Company to provide any information. Having done so Im satisfied, on the 
balance of probabilities, Mr D didnt receive the advisory service he was being charged for. 
By charging fees and not providing a service I think Colbourne & Company have not fulfilled 
their regulatory obligations and also not acted in accordance with the principles set out by 
the FCA. Therefore the total of £2,350 should be refunded to Mr D.
The fees were taken from Mr Ds investments by way of an auto-sell function where units 
were sold in order to pay the fees to Colbourne & Company. 
I think the most fair and reasonable way of putting things right is to refund the number of 
units sold to fund the fees back to Mr Ds investments. 
Mr D has also been put to a level of distress and inconvenience by what happened.
Ive considered everything that happened including the level of worry, the time and effort it 
has taken to get a resolution, and the overall effect this has had on Mr D. Having done so I 
think Colbourne & Company should pay Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
I sent Colbourne & Company two emails explaining this and setting out my thoughts with 
deadlines for a response with any comments. I also reminded Colbourne & Company about 
our powers for setting time limits and our ability to come to a decision on limited information 
as Ive explained above. I received a one line email response with reasons for personal 
delays, but nothing to suggest why Colbourne & Company couldnt respond to the complaint 
or our requests for information.
Putting things right
Colbourne & Company should contact the platform provider of Mr Ds investments to confirm 
the number of units sold on each occasion a fee was taken as detailed below. Colbourne & 
Company should then repurchase the units for the respective investments and put Mr D 
back in the position he would be in had the fees not been taken.
GIA
Amount Date of charge
£525 24/07/2018£75 13/02/2019
£100 13/02/2019
ISA
£150 07/02/2018
£550 14/06/2018
£350 08/03/2019
£600 01/06/2022
Colbourne & Company should also pay Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained my decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Colbourne & Company should take the actions Ive outlined above in paying compensation 
to Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman