DRN-2845936
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG trading as ERV UK has turned 
down a cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out an annual travel insurance policy on 3 June 2019, which was 
underwritten by ERGO. Cover under the policy began on 1 September 2019. On 27 July 
2019, Mr and Mrs H booked a trip abroad to a European destination. They were due to travel 
between 27 March and 24 April 2020.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 17 March 2020, the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. So Mr and Mrs 
Hs airline cancelled their flights and the trip was cancelled. They were able to recover their 
flight costs from the airline. But Mr and Mrs H made a claim to ERGO for their 
accommodation costs.
ERGO turned down Mr and Mrs Hs claim. It said the cancellation section of the policy didnt 
cover claims which arose due to the FCO advising against all but essential travel.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with ERGOs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think ERGO had treated Mr and Mrs H fairly. She considered the 
policy terms and the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). She accepted that the 
policy terms didnt include cancellation claims which were down to changes in FCO 
guidance. So she agreed that strictly, Mr and Mrs Hs claim wasnt covered by the policy 
terms. However, she didnt think it was fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs H to have been left 
without any cover. 
She noted that the general exclusions of the policy included a restriction on cover if a 
policyholder travelled against FCO advice, which was also set out on the IPID. But she felt 
the impact of this exclusion meant that a policyholder wasnt covered if they did travel and 
wasnt covered if they cancelled. This effectively left them without any cover. The 
investigator didnt think the impact of this restriction on cover had been highlighted clearly 
enough in the policy booklet and the IPID. And she felt Mr and Mrs H wouldve had to read 
the full policy documentation to understand the full effect. She felt the fact there was no 
cover at all under the policy once the FCO advice guidance changed meant there was a 
significant imbalance between the rights of Mr and Mrs H and ERGO. She didnt think this 
was fair and she wasnt persuaded that Mr and Mrs H wouldve taken the policy if theyd 
understood the limitation on cover. On this basis, she felt the fair outcome would be for 
ERGO to assess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
ERGO disagreed. It responded to the investigator in detail, so Ive summarised its response.
It stated that the investigator was correct in finding that there was no cover under the 
cancellation section of the policy for Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances and that in fact, 
their claim is specifically excluded;
It refuted that it had treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly, as there is no policy which would 
cover every eventuality. All policies vary in cover and terms and this is reflected in 
the premiums charged;
The cancellation cover under this policy is based on specified perils  which means 
ERGO has specified exact events which must happen in order for a claim to be valid. 
It pointed out that this type of cover is common to a number of travel insurers;
If we were to find that one general exclusion should be covered, then we were 
suggesting that ERGO should cover all of the other general exclusions listed in the 
policy;
Mr and Mrs H had been provided with the policy terms and conditions in a timely way 
and couldve easily checked the cancellation cover;
The IPID made it clear that it was only a summary of cover and directs a policyholder 
to read their full terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have needed to read 
the full policy booklet  they only needed to read the cover provided by the 
cancellation section of the policy.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think ERGO has treated Mr and Mrs H fairly. Ill explain why.
Relevant regulatory rules
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles for 
Business) say that a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly. 
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its customer. It 
also requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
ICOBS 6 also requires insurers to give customers appropriate information about a policy in 
good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the customer can make an 
informed decision about the cover and whether or not to enter into an insurance contract. 
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) which gives customers an at a glance summary of 
their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, including the main things the 
policy covers; the sum insured and if applicable, the geographical area the policy covers. 
Insurers must also include a list of the main things the policy doesnt cover.
The FCAs The Responsibilities of Providers and Distributors for the Fair Treatment of 
Customers, which also forms relevant regulatory guidance, states that financial businesses 
should consider the impact of their actions or inactions on customers throughout the lifecycle 
of the service being provided.
Ive also borne in mind the relevant law, which includes the unfair terms provisions in the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015.The policy terms and conditions
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy, as this forms the 
basis of their contract with ERGO. Ive also carefully considered the information set out in 
the IPID.
The cancellation section of the policy sets out the specified risks ERGO covers. These are 
death, illness or injury; summons for jury service or as a witness in a court of law; 
compulsory redundancy; complication of pregnancy or being more than 30 weeks pregnant 
on the day of departure; or being delayed by more than 12 hours at the UK departure point 
as a result of failure of or disruption to a public transport service. Its clear that cancellation 
due to changes in FCO guidance arent included in this list.
ERGO has also included a list of General Exclusions which apply to the whole policy. One 
of these states:
We shall not be liable in respect of the following:
Your travel to a country or specific area or event to which the Travel Advice Unit of the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised the public 
not to travel.
The IPID states, on page 2, under the Where am I covered section:
You will not be covered if you travel to a country or region where the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office has advised against all travel or all but essential travel. For further 
details, visit gov.uk/foreign-travel-advice.
Mr and Mrs Hs trip was cancelled as a result of the FCO advising against all but essential 
travel abroad. So on a strict interpretation of the contract, their claim isnt covered by the 
policy terms.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel it produces an unfair 
result. In this case, if Mr and Mrs H had travelled as planned, they wouldve been travelling 
against FCO advice. This means their policy wouldve been invalidated and they wouldnt 
have been entitled to under cover at all under the policy, under any section. So if Mr and Mrs 
H had travelled, despite the FCO advice, their policy wouldve been of no value to them 
whatsoever. In effect then, Mr and Mrs H were left in a position where they werent covered if 
they travelled and they werent covered if they cancelled their trip. And in my view, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable - in the circumstances of this case  for Mr and Mrs H to have 
no cover when they were left with no option but to cancel their trip following the change in 
FCO advice.
Ive thought carefully about ERGOs comments that the policy isnt intended to cover every 
eventuality and that it operates on a specified-perils basis only. But I dont think the fact that 
the policy excludes cover for cancellation claims which happen due to the FCO advising 
against travel was clearly sign-posted to Mr and Mrs H. And I also dont think the 
implications of this were made clear to them. I think this has left Mr and Mrs H in an unfair 
position.
An IPID is designed to make sure that customers have essential information about the
policy in a way thats easy to understand. However, I dont think the FCO exclusion isprominent in the IPID. And the What is not insured section of the IPID doesnt include 
cancellation claims which arise because of FCO advising against all but essential travel. The 
IPID only contains the general exclusion that policyholders wont be covered if they travel 
against FCO advice.
The FCO exclusion in Mr and Mrs Hs policy doesnt specifically state that no cover is 
provided for cancellation of a holiday in the event of FCO advice changing between the date 
the policy was purchased and the policyholders date of departure.
Page 1 of Mr and Mrs Hs policy includes a Summary of Cover Limits. This sets out that 
ERGO will cover up to £5000 for cancellation claims. The same limit is set out on the IPID. 
Both the summary of cover and the IPID refer a policyholder to check their full policy terms 
for full details about what the policy covers. This means then that a consumer would need to 
go further into the detail of the policy wording to work out whether they could claim if they 
had to cancel their trip because of changes to FCO guidance after theyd bought their policy.
Page 6 of the policy document sets out the cancellation cover ERGO provides and the 
specified risks it insures. But I note that the specific exclusions applying to this section of the 
policy dont include a change in FCO guidance. Instead, claims for this reason are 
something that arent listed as included. So a consumer would also need to cross refer this 
information with the IPID and page 19 of the policy to understand that they werent covered 
for cancellation due to a change in FCO advice.
I dont think the exclusion from cover of cancellation claims is clear or transparent enough. 
The cancellation cover set out on page 6, is in plain English. But the FCO exclusion isnt 
presented in the same place. So I dont think it would be obvious to a policyholder that they 
would have no cover whatsoever under the policy if FCO advice changed in respect of their 
destination after they purchased their policy. Even with a cooling-off period, I think a 
consumer might not be able to easily understand the full implications of the FCO exclusion 
upon their cover. I think the way the cancellation section of cover and the FCO exclusion 
under the general exclusions section are presented separately means their combined effect 
isnt clear.
In the circumstances, I think this is unfair and results in a significant imbalance between
the rights of Mr and Mrs H and ERGO. Mr and Mrs H were left without any cover at all when 
the FCO advice changed, and this shifted the rights and obligations under the contract 
significantly in ERGOs favour. I think that the terms and conditions didnt properly take Mr 
and Mrs Hs interests into account. And Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H wouldve freely 
agreed to a policy that left them without any cover in these circumstances if theyd realised 
that was how the policy would operate.
So, overall, I think the way the information about the cover available under this policy is
presented is not fair, and ERGO wasnt acting in the best interests of its customer when
presenting the information in this way. Ive borne in mind ERGOs comments regarding the 
other general exclusions its included in its policy. But my role is to make a
decision on the evidence in this case, not to comment on how ERGO ought to consider 
potential claims in the future, relating to potentially different events or exclusion clauses.
  My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG trading as ERV UK to assess Mr and Mrs Hs claim in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman