DRN-3057522
The complaint
Miss O complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) has lost money she invested 
into premium bonds.
What happened
Miss O says she made two investments into premium bonds in 2005, both for £500. In 2020, 
NS&I wrote to Miss O as it was changing the way it paid winnings and asked Miss O for 
bank details. NS&I told Miss O she had one bond for £500. Miss O said this was incorrect 
and there had been a mistake. She said she had two investments for £500 and she 
complained to NS&I.
NS&I tried to trace a further investment. But it wasnt able to. It said the most likely scenario 
was that the first investment had been refunded as a warrant and this was used to make the 
second investment. It did offer Miss O £175 compensation as it said it took too long to 
respond to her complaint.  
Unhappy with this response, Miss O referred the complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into it. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss O disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to consider and make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this situation, many years have passed since the original investments were made. Its 
unfortunate that NS&I doesnt have information going back that far, but it isnt required to 
keep information for this period. In situations like this, where we do have limited information 
about whats happened, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities. That 
means, what I think most likely happened given the evidence I do have. 
Where investments which were made a long time ago cant be located, wed expect a 
business to take all steps it can to locate this investment. NS&I has provided me with 
evidence of all the steps its taken to locate the second investment for Miss O, including a 
number of tracing systems and system searches. And it hasnt been able to locate Miss Os 
second investment. I think what it has done in this regard is sufficient, and I dont think there 
any further steps it could take. 
Miss O has provided the application forms for the bonds she says she invested in as 
evidence. However, an application form isnt evidence of a successful investment. It does 
show an attempt was made to take an investment. But not that it was successful. 
Miss O has shown that two amounts of £500 were paid from her current account by cheque 
around the time she attempted to make these investments. But these dont show where 
these funds went, nor that the investments were successful. It also doesnt evidence that the 
funds werent paid back at a later date by warrant or other method. 
Its clear Miss O keeps a very organised filling system as she has been able to provide us 
with the original application forms from more than 15 years ago. However, shes only been 
able to provide us with one bond certificate. Given that she did receive this, I think she 
shouldve known to expect another certificate if she was expecting another investment to 
have been set up. And if it hadnt been received, I think Miss O would likely have contacted 
NS&I about this, given her clear attention to detail. And Ive not seen anything that makes 
me think she did.
Miss O has told us she has an excellent memory, and has been very clear with what she 
believes has happened. I dont doubt her recollections. But I also have to consider that 
memories do fade over time, and it has been more than 15 years since the original 
investment. Unfortunately, we arent going to be able to provide Miss O with an answer of 
what happened to the second amount of £500. And I am sorry about that. But I think its 
most likely that it was either unsuccessful and refunded to Miss O at a later date, or Miss O 
has encashed it at some point over the years, and doesnt remember. And this is why she 
doesnt have a bond certificate.
My final decision
Whilst I recognise Miss O will remain very unhappy with this entire situation, my final 
decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman