DRN-4320228
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a home 
emergency claim. 
Any reference to Admiral includes the actions of its agents.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
In December 2022, Mr M contacted Admiral when his boiler stopped working. 
Whilst waiting for an engineer to attend, he discovered a burst pipe in his loft and so, 
turned the water supply off to prevent further damage. He called Admiral to let it 
know and said he wanted the engineer to deal with the burst pipe as well. 
In the interim, Mr M and his wife moved out of their property for a few days to stay 
with a relative. 
Admirals engineer attended six days after Mr M reported the claim. The engineer 
said a temporary repair to the boiler couldnt be carried out until the burst pipe had 
been dealt with as the engineer wouldnt be able to pressurise the boiler. 
Mr M complained to Admiral about the service hed received. Admiral was satisfied it 
had handled the claim fairly, but it recognised Mr M had experienced difficulties in 
calling it and offered him £25 compensation to recognise this.
Unhappy, Mr M brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
said Admiral should pay Mr M an additional £150 compensation. She said Mr M had 
made it clear that he wanted the pipe fixed as well, and because Admiral didnt act in 
respect of this, he had to carry out the repairs himself. 
Admiral accepted the Investigators findings, but Mr M didnt consider the 
compensation to reflect the difficulties he experienced, and so, the complaint has 
been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached and Ill explain why. 
I understand Mr M is frustrated with how Admiral handled his claim and has said he 
wants it to be penalised. But thats not the role of this Service. Instead, were here to 
consider individual complaints and any detriment a consumer may have experienced 
because of a business action or inaction. So, Ive kept this in mind when deciding 
whether £175 total compensation is fair.
Understandably, being without utilities was an inconvenience for Mr M and this was 
no doubt compounded by the breakdown of his boiler occurring during winter. Whilst 
it wouldnt be reasonable to hold Admiral responsible for inconvenience which might 
reasonably be expected in a situation like this, I have considered whether its actions 
caused avoidable distress and inconvenience.   
An engineer attended Mr Ms property six days after he reported the claim. Whilst 
Admiral has said it was experiencing a high demand for its service - meaning there 
was a lack of engineer availability - ultimately, its responsibility was to provide a 
quick, temporary repair in an emergency, but I dont consider it to have done that 
here.   
Ive listened to the call Mr M had with Admiral in which he advised a pipe in his loft 
had burst due to his boiler breaking down and the pipes freezing. Whilst Im not 
persuaded Admiral can be held responsible for the burst pipe, Mr M did make it clear 
he wanted the engineer to deal with the pipe as well. But from what Ive seen that 
message wasnt communicated to the engineer. This meant that when the engineer 
attended, they were unable to deal with either problem  which was understandably 
frustrating for Mr M.  And resulted in him completing the repairs himself, which was 
an inconvenience. 
In balance, I must keep in mind the duration Mr M was without heating and hot water 
was relatively short. And so, whilst I dont doubt Mr M was inconvenienced, Im 
satisfied £175 compensation reasonably reflects the difficulties he experienced and is 
in line with awards this Service makes in respect of distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to 
pay Mr M:
£175 compensation in total (it can deduct from this amount any payment its already 
paid). Admiral must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman