DRN-3783646
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim she made under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system she says 
was misrepresented to her by the supplier (which Ill call S).
Mrs W is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In December 2016, Mrs W purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at 
her home. Mrs W financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano 
Bank AB (publ) that was repayable over 120 months or ten years.
In March 2022, the CMC made a claim to Ikano on Mrs Ws behalf under sections 75 and 
140 of the Act. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about 
the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mrs W to enter into the contract and made her relationship with Ikano unfair.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The amount generated from the Feed-in-Tariff (FIT) would cover the monthly 
repayment of the finance  in other words it would be self-funding.
Ikano issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mrs W or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. It 
pointed out that it had not received or paid any commission relating to the loan.
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened. They didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. 
The CMC disagreed. Amongst other things, it said that:
Mrs W was told the panels would pay for themselves as they would be self-funding.
Mrs Ws predominant purpose was to reduce her monthly overheads through her 
utility provider and have an additional income.
Mrs W was advised the FIT income would cover the cost of the loan repayment 
effectively making the solar panels pay for themselves .
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75, and section 140 of the 
Act. 
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mrs W and the supplier are deemed to have 
been conducted by the supplier, in this case S, as an agent of the creditor, Ikano. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mrs W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs W could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way she could have 
claimed against S. 
Under Section 140 of the Act, a court can consider whether the relationship between Ikano 
and Mrs W is unfair. As such, Ill think about whether a court is likely to conclude the 
relationship is unfair on account of any misrepresentation on the part of S. 
Ikano did not pay or receive any commission in relation to the system or the loan. So, the 
relationship could not have been rendered unfair due to any commission being paid. 
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and order form.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed £12,495.00, the total charge for 
credit £3,998.42, the total amount payable £16,493.42, the term of the loan (120 months) 
and the contractual monthly repayments £136.87.
The order form sets out key information about the system, the expected performance, 
financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it formed a central part of the 
sales process (as it appears to have been completed and signed during the sales meeting). 
It is therefore relevant, alongside Mrs Ws recollection of the sale, when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact. Order form
The original order form set out the cost of the system alongside its expected first-year 
benefits:
I think the order form is clear that the system would cost £12,495.00, of which the full 
amount was to be funded by a 120-month (or ten-year) loan. It refers to this as IKANO 120. 
I think Mrs W wouldve understood this given she agreed at the same meeting to fund the 
purchase using the 120-month loan from Ikano.
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total £357.38 
based on a self-consumption rate of 50%. This figure includes FIT payments and the value 
of electricity savings.
Self-consumption rate is the proportion of the electricity generated by the system that Mrs W 
would use herself. The cost of the system and its first-year benefits are shown close to each 
other on the order form, just above where Mrs W signed, so these figures couldve been 
compared easily.
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding. For a 120-month (or ten-
year) loan of £12,495.00, the repayments would be £1,249.50 per year. This is significantly 
more than the highest potential benefit quoted of £357.38 (which itself included FIT 
payments and electricity savings). I think this one-page document was an integral part of the 
sale and these figures would most likely have been discussed with Mrs W.
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way Mrs W has alleged. The FIT income she wouldve expected to receive, according 
to the quote, was less than £200  not enough to cover two months loan repayments.
Performance
Ive considered whether the performance of the system is in line with the estimate in the 
order form. The order form sets out that the system is expected to produce 2,858 kWh per 
year. 
I have looked at Mrs Ws FIT statements and can see that the system has generated on 
average 2,568 kWh per year. This is slightly less than estimated but is within a reasonable 
margin of error. So, Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected. Its potential 
performance was not misrepresented. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mrs 
W to enter into the contract for the system. The system was not misrepresented to her. As 
such I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman