DRN-2711584
The complaint
 Mr R says he was incorrectly advised to make further contributions to his self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) by Wealth At Work Limited (WAW), when it shouldve 
recommended he took Fixed Protection to safeguard his Lifetime Allowance (LTA). He 
says hes suffered financial detriment as a result.
Mr R is represented in his complaint by Andrew David Associates Ltd (ADA).
What happened
Mr R retired from the Royal Navy and started receiving his occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) benefits in 2002. In 2004 he took up a salaried role in the charitable sector. And in 
2007 he became a client of WAW. Based on its advice, between the tax years 2006-7 
and 2013-14 Mr R made eight separate net lump sum contributions to his SIPP totalling 
over
£365,000. He was a higher rate tax-payer and so benefitted from tax relief, both at source 
and through the self-assessment process.
In 2006 the Government introduced the LTA. This set the maximum value of pension 
benefits someone could receive without a tax penalty. Initially it was set at £1.5m. This 
increased each year until 2010-11, when it reached £1.8m. The Government announced 
in October 2010 it would reduce the LTA to £1.5m from 2012-13. The allowance has been 
subject to subsequent changes, but these are not directly relevant in this case.
As the LTA was reduced the Government introduced transitional measures to ease the 
impact on consumers who had, or expected to have, benefits which exceeded the new 
limits. These protections are at the heart of Mr Rs complaint.
For example, before the LTA was reduced with effect from 2012-13, thered been an 
opportunity for Mr R to apply for Fixed Protection 2012 (FP 2012) which wouldve secured 
him a LTA of £1.8m. The deadline to apply was 5 April 2012. A condition of this protection 
was that no further contributions could to added to a pension after this point.
From 2015 WAW brought Mr Rs attention to the provision for Individual Protection 2014. He 
took this advice and in March 2017 fixed his LTA at £1.5m. 
Mr R later complained to WAW in December 2018 saying it shouldve alerted him to the 
implications of changes to the LTA regime earlier. He said based on his fund value at 1 
February 2012 it was obvious he should apply for FP 2012. But instead, it advised him to 
continue with contributions to his pension. This meant he missed the opportunity to apply for 
protection and he says hes suffered a financial loss as a result.
In its final response letter to Mr R in February 2019, WAW upheld his complaint. It said:
Based on your circumstances, it is evident that during your meeting in January 2012, [our 
adviser] should have recommended you apply for [FP 2012] before 5 April 2012  and 
make no further contributions into your SIPP. As I am unable to find any evidence to 
suggest this was discussed, I am pleased to inform you that I am upholding your 
complaint.
WAW went on to explain that given enquiries were still ongoing with HM Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC) about the possibility of Mr R being granted FP2012 retrospectively, 
it wasnt yet in a position to set out the remedial action it would take.
Ultimately, HMRC refused Mr Rs late application for FP2012. WAW then wrote to him on 
14 November 2019 to set out its proposal for bringing his complaint to a satisfactory 
conclusion. It recognised thered been a financial impact on him of its failings. But, initially, 
it said the downsides of what had happened were offset by benefits. It offered to pay him 
£500 for the trouble and upset it acknowledged it was responsible for.
Mr R disagreed and brought his complaint to this Service. The investigator upheld his 
complaint and found hed been financially disadvantaged by WAWs failings. He made a 
recommendation on redress. Both parties proposed their own methodology, which 
resulted in an unbridgeable disagreement. So, Mr Rs complaint has been passed to me 
to review.
I issued my provisional decision and a further clarification on redress methodology earlier 
this month. The only outstanding area of disagreement WAW raised was with regards to 
assumptions to be made about the future impact of inheritance tax (IHT). Ive given 
further careful consideration to this matter in this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
WAWs unsuitable advice has resulted in Mr R expecting to pay a substantially higher LTA 
charge than he needed to when he reaches 75 in August this year. Theres no dispute 
about this, however WAW initially took the view that given the benefit of tax relief and 
investment returns on his excess pension contributions, and the potential mitigation of 
future inheritance tax, hell have suffered no loss. Later it accepted some financial redress 
would be appropriate, but a wide difference remained it and Mr R on this matter.
Unravelling the impact of the things WAW got wrong is complicated. And as I think both 
parties recognise there are different ways redress could be calculated. Theres no 
scientific or perfect proposal here, although Ill be drawing on the approach this Service 
usually takes in similar cases. It will also be helpful to narrow down the parameters for my 
proposed redress formula.
A useful starting point is to consider contemporaneous evidence to understand Mr Rs 
objectives and circumstances. A report produced by WAW in March 2007 confirmed he 
didnt intend to take any benefits from his SIPP until he reached the age of 75. It was 
noted he would make lump sum contributions over the following four years to maximise 
his high rate tax relief. It also stated (bolding is my emphasis): 
At our meeting we discussed different ways in which a lump sum could be invested with 
the idea of providing and/or enhancing your future retirement income. I should like to 
confirm that your primary objective at this time is to deliver longer term capital growth to 
maintain and, if possible, allow the real value of your capital to increase. You have an 
adventurous attitude towards investment risk within any future pension strategyWithin a fact-find conducted by WAW in January 2012, its recorded that Mr Rs investment 
growth aims were to maintain his standard of living for his future and to provide retirement 
income. He also indicated that securing tax relief was more important than accessing 
capital. He intended to take benefits from his pension when he was 75.
In a letter to Mr R on 13 August 2015, WAW stated:
You are happy to retain the current investment strategy at the current time as you intend 
to remain in employment until the end of 2016 and it is anticipated that when you do retire 
your Navy pension (approximately £50,000 gross per annum) and state pension benefits 
will provide a comfortable standard of living without the need to generate additional regular 
income from your SIPP.
You may, however, wish to take an ad hoc capital withdrawal to assist with a potential 
house move and have asked me to advise on the possible tax implications of drawing 
this capital from your SIPP.
WAW reasonably draws my attention to other notes from advice it gave to Mr R, for 
example in 2016 when its recorded that he expected to move home in 2017 and had 
funds available outside of his SIPP to cover anticipated moving costs. This does suggest 
some flexibility in his position.    
I note however that the house move didnt take place in 2017. At the time of bringing his 
case in December 2018 he was still at the same address. And he brought his complaint in 
the following terms:
My whole aim in setting up my SIPP was to provide a second pension fund. Whilst my wife
and I currently live off my Naval pension, the SIPP would provide a lump sum of 25% tax 
free with which to help move house to downsize in due course and provide funding for 
possible long term care for either of us in the future.
Of course, these matters are uncertain, I dont know how many times Mr R and his wife 
may move home in the next 5-20 years. And I dont know what other wants and needs 
they will ultimately fund from his SIPP. But what does seem clear to me is that the impact 
of WAWs mistake meant their latitude for decision making was curtailed.
On balance, I remain satisfied the pattern established in Mr Rs dealings with WAW 
showed his intention to make substantial use of his SIPP pension benefits within his own 
lifetime. And conversely, I cant see the investments were made for the purpose of 
reducing his potential inheritance tax liability.
For most people, the purpose of arranging a pension is to provide for their own financial 
needs later in life. Whilst Mr R had the benefit of an index linked Navy and state pension, 
I agree with the investigators conclusion here that it wouldnt be reasonable to assume 
his SIPP pension benefits wouldnt be accessed in his lifetime.
Ill now address an argument made by Mr Rs representative, that rather than focussing on 
the last three net lump sum pension contributions made by him totalling £120,000 during 
the period from 2011/12 to 2013/14, theres a strong case to also take into account the net 
contribution of £54,400 he made in 2010/11.
There are a number of factors to consider here including Mr Rs objectives, what WAW 
shouldve understood about the defined benefit pension he was already receiving, 
including its valuation and the timing of changes that were being made to the LTA regime.We know Mr R had surplus capital which he wanted to invest in a tax efficient manner. So, 
pension contributions were an attractive proposition. The suitability report from March 
2007 confirms his intention to make lump sum pension contributions over the following 
four years to maximise his high rate tax relief.
But as accepted, due to changes in the LTA regime, there became a point at which further 
contributions werent suitable. The question is when WAW shouldve been alerting him to 
the issue and implications of making further pension contributions. 
Mr R started to receive his OPS benefits in 2002. Pension benefits in payment before 6 
April 2006 were not subject to a lifetime allowance check. But the rules stated that as soon 
as he took further benefits on or after that date, the pension he was receiving at that point 
would count towards the lifetime allowance.
The assessment wouldve been calculated immediately before the first benefit 
crystallisation event (BCE) and wouldve had the effect of reducing the amount of lifetime 
allowance available. Mr Rs pre 6 April 2006 Navy OPS wouldve been valued at 25 x his 
annual pension.
In 2007 WAW has said Mr Rs Navy pension was about £38,000 per annum. But it 
wouldve, or shouldve, known that service pensions are index linked, increasing each year 
in line with the Consumer Prices Index (CPI). By the time he planned to take benefits from 
his SIPP, triggering a BCE and valuation against his LTA, his OPS payments wouldve 
been significantly higher.
By 2011/12 the LTA was £1.8m, but the Government announced in October 2010 its 
intention to reduce this to £1.5m from 2012/13. Following consultation, it announced a 
proposal for FP2012 in December 2010, to help mitigate the impact of the change on 
people whod been planning on the basis of the £1.8m allowance. The Budget giving effect 
to these measures was held on 23 March 2011, with legislation enacted in July that year.
I understand from Mr Rs representative that he made his 2010-11 contribution during 
February 2011. So, theres an argument the changes to the LTA hadnt been given effect by 
this time and so there was no strong reason to doubt the suitability of the contribution. Im 
not persuaded by this. The changes to the LTA regime had been signalled prior to the 
Budget and were made within the context of a firmly established policy direction.
A rudimentary calculation by WAW in late 2010 or prior to Mr Rs February 2011 
contribution wouldve given a strong indication that applying for FP 2012 wouldve been 
appropriate. He had made clear he wouldnt be taking benefits from his SIPP until he was 
75. Making realistic assumptions for CPI inflation on his OPS benefits and for growth of his 
SIPP investments wouldve shown he would likely approach the new LTA of £1.5m.
I recognise the further someone is from taking pension benefits the more difficult it is to 
model the position for matters such as the LTA. Assumptions need to be made about 
future investment growth, the escalation of Mr Rs OPS pension in payment and when the 
funds would actually be crystallised. There are lots of moving parts.
Ive thought carefully about whether WAWs advice for Mr R to make a lump sum 
contribution to his pension in February 2011 was suitable. I dont think I could 
reasonably conclude it wasnt. I say this because had it provided Mr R with suitable 
advice about securing FP 2012 (the position Im looking to redress), its unlikely a 
forecast made at that time wouldve clearly shown he was likely to exceed the higher 
£1.8m LTA threshold.So, on balance, Im not proposing to include Mr Rs February 2011 pension contribution in 
my redress formula. I note Mr R was content to put this matter to one side had he been 
given satisfaction by WAW in terms of the offer it made him. I know that wasnt 
forthcoming and he may feel Ive given it the benefit of the doubt here.
As Ive said, theres no scientific method for knowing what position Mr R should be in now. 
But Ive tried to be fair. And in other areas, as Ill set out, it might be that WAW believes 
Ive given him the benefit of the doubt.
The next matter Ive thought about is Mr Rs potential tax liability for exceeding his £1.5m 
LTA. If he takes the excess as a lump sum before age 75 it will be taxed at 55%. If he 
leaves it in the scheme or waits until he reaches 75 it will be taxed at 25%, but with 
subsequent withdrawals subject to income tax, in his case currently at 40%.
WAW said it was unlikely Mr R was ever going to access his SIPP fund never mind deplete 
it given his age, his secure income in payment and the assets he held outside of his 
pension wrapper. So, it originally argued he would only be subject to a 25% tax charge on 
his excess funds. It also argued his estate would benefit from the shielding provided by his 
pension fund of the of the excess contributions (including tax relief and growth) from 
inheritance tax (IHT) at 40%.
I understand the argument WAW is making here, but it hasnt done enough to 
persuade me of its case. As Ive already concluded, Mr Rs intention was to make 
substantial use of his SIPP pension benefits within his own lifetime.
If Mr R doesnt take the excess benefits from his pension before he is 75, these will be 
subject to a tax charge of 25%. But subsequent withdrawals would also be taxed at his 
marginal rate of tax  40%. I cant know what will come to pass, but assuming an average 
life expectancy, hes likely to need access to funds for another 12 years, and possibly 
much longer than that. In the scenario where he draws benefits from his SIPP, based on 
current provisions his excess funds will have been subject to a total effective tax rate of 
55%.
I havent seen a strong enough argument for me to assume Mr Rs excess benefits will 
only ever attract a tax charge of 25%. So, I will use the assumption of a tax charge of 55% 
in my redress formula. And given prior arguments, the extent of his exposure here will be 
the additional tax payable on the difference between his LTA of £1.5m and the allowance 
of
£1.8m he shouldve secured with FP2012.
Similarly, WAW hasnt done enough to demonstrate its case on IHT. I cant see from the 
evidence that Mr Rs main driver was to make investments via his pension for the purpose 
of reducing his potential liabilities. Actually, the stronger argument is that he intended to 
make use of at least some of the benefits from his SIPP. Further, it ignores the potential for 
him to take other actions to mitigate IHT.
Mr R has told us that one of his objectives was to maximise the tax-free cash (TFC) 
available to him from his SIPP. Its of note pensions that were in payment prior to 6 
April 2006 (also known as pre-commencement pensions), like his Navy OPS, are 
treated as having crystallised immediately prior to the clients first BCE. This effectively 
reduces the amount of LTA available.
This meant the optimum level of TFC he could secure was always going to be a balance 
between his available residual LTA, the growth of his OPS benefits and the contributions 
he was making. It appears this point wouldve been reached around 2018 or 2019  I note he did take some of the benefits from his SIPP around this time including nearly £40,000 
TFC.
If Mr R hadnt made the three capital contributions to his personal pension, which are the 
focus of my decision, its possible he wouldve been advised to invest his funds for future 
appreciation as opposed to leaving them on deposit. We know he was prepared to accept 
investment risk. 
That said, there are a number of unknown tax implications of investing outside of tax 
efficient wrappers, for example Capital Gains Tax. And he mayve used some of the funds 
to satisfy other priorities or wants. 
On balance, Ive decided not to treat these three capital sums as though they were 
invested in the same way as Mr Rs SIPP portfolio. I dont think this would be fully coherent 
with the rest of my decision, nor fair to WAW. Instead, Ive calculated a notional figure for 
the loss of use/benefit to him of these funds, using this Services standard approach. 
Theres also the matter of the tax relief Mr R benefitted from as a result of making the 
contributions. As a higher rate taxpayer, he wouldve received tax relief at source on his 
three contributions at the basic rate. And he couldve claimed additional relief through his 
annual self-assessment  this was worth up to 20% of the contribution hed made on any 
income where hed paid 40% tax.
So, for example, in 2011/12 the higher rate tax threshold was £35,000. If Mr R had 
been earning, say £65,000 in that year, hed have been able to claim another 20% 
relief on £30,000 of his contribution that year. This additional benefit, which he wouldnt 
have had if hed not made the pension contributions, also needs to be accounted for.
As Ill set out, Ive decided to take the same approach to valuing the benefit Mr R received 
from this additional tax relief to that for the loss of use for his three capital sums.
Putting things right
The following is the framework for the redress I require Wealth At Work Limited to pay Mr 
R. Where Ive used figures, this is to illustrate methodology to aid the understanding of 
both parties. While they may be broadly correct, detailed and specific calculations will 
need to be made with reference to contemporaneous evidence.
A. Had Mr R been advised to take out FP 2012, his lifetime allowance wouldve been 
£1.8m as opposed to £1.5m. Therefore, by the time he reaches 75 (later this year), 
he will be subject to a LTA charge of 55% on £300,000 of his personal pension 
which wouldnt have otherwise occurred.
B. It appears Mr Rs peak TFC entitlement wouldve been about £114,000 around 
2019. This figure is derived from assessing the value of his OPS pension benefits, 
which counts towards his LTA (£55,755 x 25 = £1.34m) with the balance available 
of around £456,000 to take him to the £1.8m LTA. So, TFC would be 25% of 
£456,000.
C. At some point in 2018-19 Mr R crystallised around 17%, or £156,150 of his SIPP 
funds - taking around £39,000 in TFC. He appears to have taken the maximum 
available to him within the limits of the restricted LTA available to him of £1.5m. 
D. So, the error in not recommending FP2012 will cause a gross loss of £300,000 x 
55% = £165,000. But we know Mr R is a higher rate taxpayer, so allowing for the 
TFC hed have been entitled to on this portion of the LTA (£300,000 x 25% = £75,000), then the tax due wouldve been around £90,000. So, the net loss WAW 
needs to make good here is £75,000.
E. WAW has calculated that at the point Mr R transferred his SIPP in 2019, the three 
net contributions in question, tax relief at source and investment growth on these 
equated to a value of around £239,000. As he will incur tax of 55% on these funds, 
they are actually worth about £107,000 to Mr R. Given his initial net contributions 
were worth £120,000, then hes suffered a basic loss here of around £13,000.
F. WAW will also need to add 8% simple interest a year for loss of use on his three 
net contributions from when they were made until it settles. 
G. As a higher rate taxpayer, Mr R benefitted from tax relief on his three pension 
contributions. The methodology above deals with the relief he received at source as 
it was bound up in his pension pot. But he wouldve claimed additional tax relief 
through his annual self-assessment. So, for example, in 2011/12 the higher rate tax 
threshold was £35,000. If Mr R had been earning, say £65,000 in that year, hed 
have been able to claim another 20% relief on £30,000 of his contribution that year 
(equating to the portion of his salary that was taxed at 40%). This needs to be 
accounted for.
H. In addition, Mr R has had the benefit of paying less tax, although I dont know how 
he utilised this over the years. I think its fair to value that benefit in the same way 
Im compensating him for loss of use of his net contributions. So, WAW will be 
able to deduct from the calculation of redress, the sum of 8% simple interest a year 
on the higher rate tax relief hes received from the point he received that benefit 
until it settles.
I. The overall loss will be the net balance of (D+E+F)  (G+H). In addition, I think 
Wealth at Works offer of £500 for the trouble and upset it caused is fair and 
reasonable.
WAW should provide details of its calculations to Mr R in a clear format.
If WAW considers its legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest, it must make the 
appropriate payment to HMRC and send a tax deduction certificate to Mr R with the 
compensation payment. He can then reclaim any overpaid tax from HMRC, if he is eligible to 
do so.
Mr R may need to supply evidence of certain matters to WAW, for example in relation to 
his tax position, in order for it to calculate elements of the redress.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. I now require Wealth At 
Work Limited to put things right in the way Ive indicated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman