DRN-2761005
The complaint
Ms S complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited caused delays in instructing a 
valuation and providing a decision in relation to an application she made.  
What happened
Ms S has a mortgage with Kensington. She needed to make repairs to her home and 
alterations, due to significant health conditions she suffers from. To fund this, she decided to 
sell part of the plot that her property sits on for development. And, because of her mortgage, 
she needed Kensingtons permission.
Ms S approached Kensington in March 2020 to request that it allow the sale of part of the 
plot of land. Kensingtons notes indicate that Ms S paid an administrative fee in respect of 
the application. In August 2020 Ms S paid £300 for a valuation to be carried out. This was 
needed to assess if Kensington was willing to approve the application. 
The valuation had still not been completed by November 2020. So, Ms S complained to 
Kensington about the delay. She said that the property was not secure, so the repairs 
needed were urgent, as were the alterations to assist with her health conditions. She said 
she couldnt complete any of this work without the proceeds of the sale of the land so the 
delay by Kensington was having a significant effect on her. Kensington acknowledged there 
had been delays which had been its fault. To address this, it offered Ms S £150 for the upset 
caused.
The valuation was carried out at the end of January 2021. And at the end of February 2021 
Kensington confirmed it was willing to grant permission for the sale of the land. 
In the meantime, Ms S asked our service to consider her complaint as she didnt think the 
offer made was fair.
One of our investigators looked into matters. She agreed that she didnt think the offer went 
far enough to address the upset caused by the delays  which Kensington had already 
acknowledged responsibility for. She recommended that Kensington increase its offer and 
pay a total of £600 for the upset caused.
Kensington agreed with the investigators opinion. But Ms S still didnt think the offer was fair 
for the distress caused. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There do appear to have been several delays with the valuation being instructed. And 
Ms Ss application could not proceed without the valuation. This is because the valuation 
was needed to determine if the property would remain acceptable security to Kensington 
after the proposed sale of part of the plot. 
The information Ive seen suggests a lot of this was due to slow communication between 
Kensington and the valuer. And Kensington has acknowledged and accepted that there were 
delays. So, as Kensington accepts errors were made, what is left for me to decide is what is 
a fair way to put this right.
Ms S has explained that the health conditions she was suffering meant it was necessary to 
adapt her property. And shes explained that repairs were also needed  and that these were 
essential, and that the property was unsecure without them being done. I can see she made 
Kensington aware of this when she first raised concerns about delays and has been 
consistent in whats shes said about this. Ms S has told us her health has continued to 
worsen while this was ongoing  making the changes to the property even more vital  as 
has the damage that needed repairing.
I have a great deal of sympathy for the position Ms S has found herself in. I cant imagine 
how difficult things have been for her. And I dont doubt the situation she has been in with 
her property has been particularly upsetting and I know she feels strongly about this. Im 
conscious however that Kensington wasnt at fault for the original issues with the property. 
And Ms S took the decision to fund the work she wanted to carry out through the sale of part 
of the plot of land. This isnt the most common of transactions or funding arrangements, and 
I dont think its necessarily unreasonable that it required careful consideration from 
Kensington. I also dont think its unreasonable that this mayve taken longer than a standard 
mortgage application to assess  given it was quite unique. And there was never a 
guarantee that this application wouldve been approved. So, while there have been delays 
by Kensington, Im not sure it was the cause of all of the distress Ms S has experienced
Taking everything into account, while I know this is likely to come as a disappointment to 
Ms S, I think the recommendation made by the investigator, that Kensington pay £600 for 
the upset its errors have caused, is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint.
To put things right Kensington Mortgage Company Limited should pay Ms S £600 for the 
trouble and upset caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman