DRN-4246120
The complaint
Mr B complains about Santander UK Plc. 
He says that he has been the victim of a scam, and that Santander didnt do enough to 
protect him. He would like Santander to refund him the money he has lost.
What happened
In 2017, Mr B was cold called by W, offering an investment in a property bond.
Mr B was persuaded to invest £5,000, and made this payment to W, in a Santander branch.
Mr B says that he was scammed by W, and that Santander should have done more to 
protect him from losing his money.
Mr B made a complaint to Santander, but it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy, Mr B brought his complaint to this Service. 
Our Investigator considered things but didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. They 
said that while Santander should have intervened when Mr B made the payment, they 
couldnt say that an intervention would have prevented the loss given the information 
available about W at the time. 
Mr B asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision, so the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will be disappointing 
for Mr B, so Ill explain why. While I have carefully noted all representations made, I will not 
be addressing every single point that has been raised. I mean no disrespect by this; 
however, I dont need to particularise every point when reaching an outcome I consider to be 
fair and reasonable. Instead, I will focus on the issues that are central to the outcome. 
It isnt immediately apparent here if Mr B was the victim of a scam  Santander says that this 
is a civil dispute  and that Mr B paid a legitimate business which has now entered into 
liquidation. 
 I understand that there is an ongoing police investigation into what has happened  but the 
outcome of this investigation isnt currently known. That said, I dont need to make a finding 
on this matter to make my decision.
Santander has no obligation to protect its customers from bad bargains or to provide
investment advice  so if Mr B paid money to a legitimate company, it would be under no 
obligation to have prevented the payment from being made. 
That said, as it is unclear if Mr B was scammed or not, I will explain why I am still not 
upholding his complaint, even if this was the case.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payment 
and withdrawal requests that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the customers account. So, while Mr B never intended to pay money to a 
potential scam, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), he is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are sometimes circumstances where it may be 
appropriate for a bank to take additional steps or make further checks before processing a 
payment to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm or fraud  but they 
cant reasonably be involved in every transaction.
Ive carefully considered what this means for the payment Mr B made to W. 
Having done so, I think that the payment Mr B made was unusual considering the way he 
normally operated his account  so I do think that Santander should have questioned him 
about the payment he was making. 
That said  even if Santander had questioned Mr B about the payment, I dont think that it 
would have made a difference in this case for broadly the same reasons as our Investigator. 
In order for me to uphold this complaint, I would have to be satisfied that an intervention by 
Santander could reasonably prevented the loss here  and Im afraid I dont think it could.
Had Santander questioned Mr B about the payment, I think that he would have told it the 
truth  that he was making an investment with W, which appeared  through its registration 
with Companies House  to be a legitimate business. At the time Mr B made the payment, it 
was actively trading, and it would have needed a considerable amount of investigation to 
unearth the information about W that later came to light. 
So, I dont think that Santander reasonably ought to have any concerns at the time. And Im 
satisfied that Santander hasnt missed an opportunity to prevent the payment before it was 
sent.   
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman