DRN-4278882
The complaint
Mr P complains that after accepting a claim on his mobile phone insurance policy Assurant 
General Insurance Limited trading as Vodafone Care agreed to provide a replacement 
phone but the package he received did not contain a phone and it would not send a 
replacement.
What happened
Mr P made a claim on his policy after he lost his mobile phone. Assurant accepted the claim 
and sent a replacement phone to him by courier.
Mr P then complained that when he opened the package delivered to him there was no 
phone inside. He said there was a hole in the package and it was clear it had been tampered 
with. He asked Assurant to provide another phone.
Assurant said it didnt accept what Mr P said about the delivery of the package and would 
not send another phone. Mr P complained but Assurant didnt agree it had done anything 
wrong.
When Mr P referred his complaint to this service our investigator thought it should be upheld. 
She asked Assurant to issue a replacement phone and pay compensation of £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him by its actions. 
Assurant doesnt agree and has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms of Mr Ps policy, where a claim is accepted for a lost phone, a replacement 
will be provided. Assurant accepted the claim and sent a phone to Mr P but he says when 
the package was delivered there was no phone inside; what the box actually contained was 
a mobile phone car holder.
Our investigator discussed with Assurant what investigations it had carried out, and there 
was reference to checks with the network provider about whether the phone was still in use. 
Theres evidence to show the phone was blocked, but Assurant said this was only by Mr Ps 
network provider, so its possible the phone is being used with a different network. 
This doesnt confirm conclusively whether the phone is in use, but it does show Mr P wasnt 
using it under his existing network provider and indeed the phone had been blacklisted.
Assurant says checks were carried out by the warehouse before the replacement phone was 
despatched but the information it has provided is a generic list of the checks that are done 
and are not specific to Mr Ps replacement phone. And even if it was checked before being 
sent, that wouldnt prevent it being tampered with between it leaving and being handed to 
Mr P.
In any event, Assurant made its decision on the basis that what Mr P said about the package 
is not consistent with the photos of the package that he provided. Thats the crux of the 
matter  whether it was reasonable for Assurant to make the decision on that basis.
Assurant refers to a call with Mr P when he was asked about what happened. He was asked 
where the hole in the package was and said it was near the security tape, but it was on the 
opposite side of the package. And he said the security tape was not intact when in fact it 
was. Assurant says this shows his testimony is not reliable.
The photos show a hole in the packaging on the opposite side of the packaging to the 
security tape. But it was at the same end  immediately on the reverse of the security tape  
so was very close to it; both the hole and the security tape go across to the side of the 
package and at that point they almost meet. Listening to the call, its clear English is not 
Mr Ps first language and he struggles at some points to explain clearly what he means. 
When asked if the security tape was intact he says not really and then later says no. But 
its not clear to me from his explanation if hes referring to the security tape specifically or the 
packaging. 
I dont think theres enough to rely on here for Assurant to say the phone was delivered.
Assurant also relies on photos from the courier service of the package being delivered. But 
the photo of the package itself is not very clear and its not possible to tell from that what the 
condition of the package was. 
The couriers evidence does show the courier didnt initially deliver the package, saying there 
was no answer, but it was delivered a few minutes later. Mr Ps testimony is consistent with 
this  he described how he saw the driver outside the property and went to speak to him, at 
which point the package was handed over.
I appreciate Assurant didnt consider Mr Ps comments were consistent with the photos. But 
the onus is on Assurant to show that it successfully delivered the replacement phone to Mr P 
and I dont think it has done so. It hasnt provided what Mr P is entitled to where a claim is 
accepted on his policy and so a further phone should be sent to him.
Finally, Assurant says Mr P should not have accepted the package if he was concerned it 
had been tampered with and should have realised that the weight wasnt correct if only a 
plastic car holder was in there. Its likely a customer would accept delivery of a parcel they 
were expecting unless it was so obviously not right, and thats not the case here. 
Mr P was understandably upset that he didnt receive the replacement phone. He says the 
contract is still running, so he is still paying for a phone that he doesnt have. And he was 
frustrated by the way Assurant dealt with the matter. In these circumstances a payment of 
compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused is reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Assurant General Insurance Limited trading as Vodafone 
Care to:
issue another replacement handset to Mr P; and
pay compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience causedUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman