DRN-1822647
The complaint
Mr P complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
Mr P was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with MBFS.
At the end of the contract and before the car was handed back, it was inspected. Following 
the inspection, MBFS asked Mr P to pay damage charges.
Mr P disputed the damage charges. He says the charges arent reasonable and is unhappy 
that he wasnt given the option of a pre-inspection. Hes also unhappy about the way the 
collection agent treated him.
Mr P complained to MBFS, who issued a final response in which it said the charges had 
been correctly applied. It acknowledged that there had been some service issues and 
offered to reduce the damage charges by 25%. 
Mr P, unhappy with the response, brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought that most of the damage charges had 
been fairly applied but said it wasnt fair to charge for the chip on the screen. The 
investigator also said the reduction of 25% was a reasonable resolution to the service 
complaint.
Mr P didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the finance agreement say that Mr P must return the car  in 
good condition and that any damage which goes beyond acceptable wear and tear is the 
customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage goes beyond acceptable wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photographs. This identifies damage which 
MBFS says goes beyond acceptable wear and tear. Taking into account the nature of the 
damage and having regard to the guidelines, Im satisfied that the majority of the damage 
exceeds fair wear and tear and that the charges have been fairly applied. However, I agree 
with the investigator that the charge for the chip on the screen isnt fair. This is because the 
BVLRA guidelines say that damage in excess of 10mm in the drivers line of sight is 
unacceptable. Looking at the photographs, Im not persuaded that the chip is in excess of 
10mm.
Mr P is unhappy that he wasnt offered a pre-inspection. MBFS has said that it sent Mr P a 
vehicle returns standards booklet at the start of the agreement. Ive looked at this booklet 
and Im satisfied that it provides clear information about the type of damage which is and 
isnt acceptable when the car is returned. I think Mr P had sufficient time to familiarise 
himself with the return standards and to arrange for any repairs to be carried out before the 
car was collected, if he wished to.
With regards to a pre-inspection, MBFS has said that an intentions pack was sent to Mr P 
around 6 months before the end of the agreement, which included an option to arrange a 
pre-inspection. Its up to the consumer to arrange the pre inspection but I cant see that Mr P 
did this. However, Im satisfied that he was given the opportunity to arrange this if he wished.
Ive taken into account what Mr P has said about the collection agent. I cant be certain of 
exactly what was said or what happened but Im aware that MBFS has acknowledged that 
the service could have been better and has offered a reduction of 25%. I think this is a fair 
resolution to this aspect of Mr Ps complaint.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, and whilst I appreciate Mr Ps strength of feeling about the 
charges, I dont think the charges are unfair, apart from the charge for the chip to the screen. 
Im asking MBFS to remove the latter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must remove the charge for the chip to the screen. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman