DRN-1049401
 
Complaint
Mr Z complains that Santander UK plc refused to issue him with a debit card on his current 
account.
Background
Mr Z has a current account with Santander. He contacted it when he was abroad and asked 
for a debit card to be issued to him. His first contact was by email. Santander told him that 
because he didnt currently have a debit card he would have to visit one of its branches and 
produce identification. The next day Mr Z telephoned Santander and again asked for a debit 
card to be issued. Santander told him that he had answered one or more of the security 
questions incorrectly and so he would have to attend a branch before it could deal with his 
request.
Mr Z complained to us. He says that he phoned Santander several times during this period. 
He also says that even though he may have incorrectly answered one of the security 
questions Santander ought to have asked him additional security questions. He says that 
Santander has discriminated against him.
Santander disagrees. It says that because Mr Z didnt have a debit card linked to his current 
account it wouldnt have issued him with a debit card unless he visited a branch with 
identification. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said that it was up to Santander to decide 
what security measures it uses to protect its customers. Because Santander had followed its 
own procedures she took the view that it hadnt done anything wrong and she didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr Z disagrees and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the account and I can see that Mr Z was entitled 
to ask for a debit card with his account. Santander has provided information which shows 
that Mr Z was issued with a debit card with the account but he had asked for it to be 
cancelled some years earlier. So, he was asking for a new debit card and not a replacement 
card. I can also see that the terms and conditions state:
We must be satisfied of your identity and can refuse instructions if we doubt your 
identity. We may ask you to show identification, for example, when making an account 
withdrawal.Mr Z initially contacted Santander by email to request the new card. It told him that as there 
were currently no debit cards linked to the account he would have to go to a branch with 
suitable identification. I think that this was in line with the terms and conditions. A debit card 
would permit withdrawals from the account and so Santander had to be satisfied with the 
identity of the person asking for a debit card. This was also in line with Santanders own 
internal policies and procedures. Whilst I understand that Mr Z was frustrated by this 
requirement I dont agree that Santander was treating him differently to any of its other 
customers who asked for a new debit card.
Mr Z says that he phoned Santander several times the following day. Santander has not 
been able to produce recordings of all of those telephone calls. It has produced only a 
recording of one call. Mr Z says that it should be compelled to produce all of the recordings. 
Ive thought about whether I need to require Santander to produce all of the call recordings. 
Ive decided that I wont require it to do that for the following reasons:
Santander had already told Mr Z by email that it required him to produce identification 
before it could deal with his request. I dont think that requirement would have 
changed because it was one of Santanders internal procedures; and 
from the telephone recording Santander has produced I can see that Mr Z answered 
one or more of the security questions incorrectly. So, that wouldve been enough to 
create a doubt about the identity of the caller. 
During the telephone call Santander asked Mr Z when he would be back in the UK. He said 
it would be about a month later. He was asked to call into a branch when he returned. Ive 
thought about whether Santander shouldve done anything more. I can see that in his email 
Mr Z had indicated that the card should be posted to his UK address. So, he wouldnt have 
been able to use the card until he returned to the UK in any case. Whilst I can understand 
that having to go a branch may have been inconvenient for Mr Z Im satisfied that it was 
important that Santander should take steps to confirm his identity before issuing a new debit 
card.
So, Ive decided that Santander acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances and I dont 
require it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Santander UK plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
 
 
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman