DRN-2975277
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Ms M. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. Barclays sold Ms M the 
policy at the same time that she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
Ms M originally said the PPI was added without her knowledge. However, this did happen 
about 26 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember the detail of 
something that happened that long ago. And Ive looked at credit card application form, and I 
can see that Ms M ticked a box to say she wanted PPI. There was a clear yes or no box, 
so it would have been clear there was a choice.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Ms Ms individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. Instead it just 
offered the PPI has something for her to consider. In doing this, though, it should have given 
her enough fair and clear information for her to make an informed choice. 
Looking at the information that was on the application form, its unlikely Barclays gave Ms M 
enough information about the costs, benefits and restrictions in the policy. In such a 
situation, I need to think about whether any of the missing information would have made 
Ms M tick the no box instead. That is to say, would better information have made a 
difference?
Ms M says that, if shed known more about the PPI, she wouldnt have taken it  she says 
she had a job that gave her six months full sick pay and six months half sick pay. However, 
it does seem that Ms M was attracted to having cover for sickness and redundancy, as 
described on the application form  otherwise she wouldnt have ticked the box. And shed 
have known there would be a cost for this, even if the exact amount wasnt given  the form 
talks about the monthly premium for PPI. 
The actual cost wasnt particularly high for this kind of cover, and it would have paid out for 
up to 12 months. And, after 6 months of sickness, Ms M would have been on half pay from 
her job and so would be facing difficulties meeting her everyday expenses. The PPI could 
have paid out over the whole period, on top of her pay, leaving her in a better financial 
position. So I dont see that its likely, even with the full information about costs and how long 
benefits would last, that Ms M would have been put off by that. Obviously I cant know for 
certain  but I do have to look at what is most likely. 
There would have been restrictions such as not covering claims for a medical condition that 
was already present at the start of the insurance. But, from what Ms M has told us, I dont 
see that would have affected her. So, again, more information on that kind of thing is unlikely 
to have made a difference. 
Overall, I dont have strong enough evidence to say this PPI was mis-sold. 
Ms M is unhappy with the way Barclays handled her complaint, making her contact it several 
times to prove that she had had PPI and to get it to properly address her complaint. Barclays 
has offered to pay her £50 in compensation., but Ms M is not satisfied with that. 
I can see that this must have been very frustrating for Ms M. But, in the context of the high 
volume of PPI  complaints, and where businesses were often trying to find evidence of PPI 
going back several decades, I think its reasonable to give them a little leeway. Ms Ms PPI 
application had, after all, been about 25 years earlier. So its not surprising if Barclays had 
difficulty finding documents and assessing the complaint. The compensation Barclays has 
offered is, I think, reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman