DRN-3667083
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on his motor
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I refer to the insurance company named above, and I include
employees and others insofar as I hold Admiral responsible for their acts or omissions.
What happened
Mr M has a toddler son whose grandparents live in continental Europe.
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car first registered in 2017. For the
year from mid-June 2020, Mr M had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with Admiral.
Unfortunately, on 11 May 2021, a third partys vehicle hit Mr Ms parked car which suffered a
broken wing mirror and other bodywork damage. Admiral instructed a repairer. 
Mr M told the repairer the car had a loss of engine power. The repairer sent the car for 
diagnosis by a garage franchised by the car maker. Admiral or its repairer provided a 
courtesy car. In mid-June 2021, the policy expired. Mr M had to take out temporary 
insurance for the courtesy car - but it didnt cover driving in continental Europe.
In late June 2021, the franchised garage said that the car needed a new throttle body.
By about mid- July 2021, Admirals repairer had ordered parts for the bodywork repair and 
got the car back from the franchised garage.
Mr M complained to Admiral. Admiral wrote a final response dated 23 July 2021. It said it
was sending Mr M a cheque for £120.00.
On 19 August 2021, the repairer returned the car to Mr M. But there was an issue with a
window.
Mr M arranged to have the throttle body replaced. But this didnt fix the issue of lack of
power. The franchised garage told Mr M that the problem was a sensor  so he had that
replaced. Mr M made a further complaint to Admiral about incorrect diagnosis.
Admiral wrote a final response to some of the complaint points in mid-September 2021. It
said it was sending £100.00 for distress and inconvenience. Admiral wrote a further final
response dated 21 September 2021, saying that it would reimburse Mr M for the temporary
insurance costs.
In mid-January 2022, Mr M sent us a complaint form. He asked for compensation for
financial loss, inconvenience and distress.
By a final response dated 1 March 2022, Admiral accepted the complaints in part. It said its
repairer had rectified the window. It accepted responsibility for incorrect information about
the throttle body. It said it would pay a further £150.00 compensation.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Admiral
was responsible for delay, distress and inconvenience and for the unnecessary replacement
of the throttle body. He thought that there could be a possibility that the sensor might be
claim related.
The investigator recommended that Admiral should:
1. increase the compensation award for the whole complaint to £750.00 (in total);
2. refund Mr M the costs related to the replacement of the throttle body subject to Mr M 
providing Admiral with proof of the loss. 8% simple interest should be added to this 
amount from the date Mr M paid this until the date this is settled;
3. reinstruct an engineer to consider if the sensor replaced by Mr Ms mechanic could 
have been damaged in the incident. If its found this was the case, Admiral should 
reimburse Mr M for the costs of the replacement  subject to proof of his loss.
4. refund Mr M with any costs incurred due to having to take out temporary insurance 
on the courtesy vehicle if this hasnt already been done.
my (first) provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M
and to Admiral on 14 July 2022. I summarise my findings:
The franchised garage initially mis-diagnosed the throttle body as the cause of lack of
power. Id found that the accident didnt cause damage to the throttle body.
But the diagnosis was done on the instruction of Admiral. So I was minded to hold
Admiral responsible for the misdiagnosis. That was the cause of Mr M paying the
franchised garage a sum (previously estimated at about £700.00) to replace the
throttle body.
I expected Mr M  in response to the provisional decision  to provide a copy of the
franchised garages invoice and evidence of his payment. Subject to that, I was
minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to reimburse Mr M.
As he will have been out of pocket since he paid the invoice, I was minded to direct
Admiral to pay interest at our usual rate.
Admiral tried to put things right. It paid a total of £370.00 for upset, inconvenience
and calls. In addition, Admiral reimbursed the temporary insurance costs. 
Taking into consideration the length and seriousness of the distress and 
inconvenience, I was minded that it was fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay
Mr M a further £130.00.
Subject to any further information from Mr M or from Admiral, my (first) provisional decision
was that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance CompanyLimited to pay Mr M:
1. if he has shown us evidence of payment of the franchised garages invoice:
1.1  the amount of about £700.00 in reimbursement for the throttle body; and
1.2 simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of his payment 
to the date of Admirals reimbursement. If Admiral considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr
M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he
asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if
appropriate; and
2. in addition to what it has paid already, £130.00 for distress and inconvenience.
my (second) provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr M and to Admiral on 12 August 2022. I summarise my findings:
In response to the provisional decision, Mr M had provided copies of the following:
franchised garages invoice 25 August 2021 £ 522.44
franchised garages invoice 8 September 2021 £ 151.74
mechanic invoice (handwritten) £ 400.00
total £1,074.18
The invoice for £522.44 was for the supply of a throttle body. And it had payment 
card details. So I found that Mr M paid it on 25 August 2021. Id found that the 
misdiagnosis was the cause of Mr M paying to replace the throttle body. So I found it 
fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to reimburse Mr M the £522.44 . As he will have 
been out of pocket since he paid the invoice, I intended to direct Admiral to pay 
interest at our usual rate.
Taking into consideration the length and seriousness of the distress and 
inconvenience, I found it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mr M a further 
£130.00 in addition to the £370.00, a total of £500.00. As Mr M says he hasnt 
banked one of the cheques, I intended to direct Admiral to pay him £500.00 insofar 
as it hasnt already paid him that amount for distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further information from Mr M or from Admiral, my second provisional 
decision was that I upheld this complaint in part. I intended to direct Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr M:
1. the amount of £522.44 in reimbursement for the throttle body; and
2. simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 25 August 2021 to the date 
of Admirals reimbursement. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £500.00 (insofar as it hasnt already paid him that amount) for distress and 
inconvenience.Mr M agreed with the second provisional decision.
Admiral disagreed with the second provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
It got the expert opinion of the manufacturers main dealer and passed it to the 
customer in good faith.
The customer chose to have the work done, using the main dealers diagnosis. It isnt 
Admirals diagnosis and isnt Admirals responsibility.
The main dealer is responsible, and the customer needs to complain with them.
The provisional decision will affect all future referrals to main dealers.
It is wholly unfair for Admiral to be responsible for the main dealers misdiagnosis, 
incorrect work completed, and the customer being charged for said incorrect work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admirals policy terms contained the following exclusion:
Section 3: Exclusions which apply to sections 1 and 2
What is not covered
We will not pay
 for wear and tear
 for any loss or damage caused by mechanical, electrical, electronic, computer
failures, breakdowns or breakages
So the policy didnt cover a new throttle body or sensor  unless they were damaged in the
accident for which Mr M was making a claim.
Admirals engineers pointed out that the throttle body and its sensor are located near the
engine  and that the accident involved a minor impact. Mr M hasnt pointed to any
engineering evidence that the impact damaged the throttle body or its sensor. So I find that
the accident didnt cause damage to the throttle body or its sensor.
More recently, Mr M has suggested that damage to the wiring of the wing mirror caused
damage to the sensor. But he hasnt pointed to any engineering evidence of that. So I dont 
find that damage to the wiring of the wing mirror caused damage to the sensor.
Admiral says that it isnt responsible for the delay into July 2021 while the car was at the
franchised garage. However, I consider that Admiral could and should have been more
decisive that the issue of loss of power wasnt related to the accident.
Instead  in mid-May 2021  Admiral instructed the repairer as follows:
I'm happy for the loss of power to be investigated. Once diagnosed please send
over the findings for review so we can decide if related or not.
Please supply all invoices for this alsoSo I find that it was Admirals decision to go along with - and pay for - sending the car to the
franchised garage for investigation and diagnosis. Admiral or its repairer was the customer 
of the franchised garage, with the right to complain about any shortcomings in its service.
Admiral or its repairer couldve done more to chase the franchised garage or to cancel its
involvement. So I hold Admiral responsible for the delay in ordering parts and starting repair 
on the bodywork.
From what Mr M and Admiral have each said, the franchised garage initially mis-diagnosed
the throttle body as the cause of lack of power. Ive found that the accident didnt cause
damage to the throttle body.
But the investigation and diagnosis were done on the instruction of Admiral. So I hold 
Admiral responsible for that investigation and misdiagnosis. The misdiagnosis was the cause 
of Mr M paying to replace the throttle body.
In an email dated 13 September 2021, Mr M said the following:
In essence I did pay over 600£ to replace a throttle body that needed no
replacement and additional 210£ to address the real issue
In response to the provisional decision, Mr M has provided copies of the following:
franchised garages invoice 25 August 2021 £   522.44
franchised garages invoice 8 September 2021 £   151.74
mechanic invoice (handwritten) £   400.00
total £1,074.18
The invoice for £522.44 is for the supply of a throttle body. And it has payment card details.
So I find that Mr M paid it on 25 August 2021. Ive found that the misdiagnosis was the cause
of Mr M paying to replace the throttle body. And Ive held Admiral responsible for that 
misdiagnosis. So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to reimburse Mr M.
The invoice for £151.74 is for sending unit which I find likely was the throttle body sensor.
Ive found that the accident didnt cause damage to the sensor. And I find that the
misdiagnosis didnt cause Mr M to pay to replace the sensor. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Admiral to reimburse the cost of that to Mr M.
The mechanics invoice is handwritten. The date is unclear and some of the spelling is
incorrect. But I find that the invoice was for a deposit for throttle body. That doesnt say its
for labour to fit that part. And the total of £522.44 plus the £400.00 would be a total of
£922.44. That would be much more than Mr M said in his email of 13 September. Also, there
are no payment details or other evidence of payment of the £400.00. So I dont find it fair
and reasonable to direct Admiral to reimburse that to Mr M.
Admiral or its repairer provided a courtesy car. Admiral offered to reimburse the cost of
temporary insurance and says it paid £781.52 in October 2021. In response to the (first)
provisional decision, Mr M has confirmed that he did receive that payment. So I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay it to Mr M.
I accept that Admiral was responsible for delay and poor communication. Also, the repairer
returned the car with a problem with a window, which it later accepted responsibility to fix. So
Ive thought about the impact of these shortcomings on Mr M.Mr M hasnt provided enough detail to show a loss of earnings.
I accept that he had to spend time chasing for progress and updates between May and
August 2021 (and to pursue his complaints). Although he had a courtesy car, he couldnt
drive himself and his son to see family on the continent. He was upset that he had to arrange
and pay for temporary insurance. He was also upset that he had to arrange and pay for an
unnecessary new throttle body.
Admiral tried to put things right. It paid a total of £370.00 for upset, inconvenience and calls.
In addition, Admiral reimbursed the temporary insurance costs. 
Putting things right
I find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to reimburse Mr M £522.44. As he has been out 
of pocket since he paid the invoice, I will direct Admiral to pay interest at our usual rate.
Taking into consideration the length and seriousness of the distress and inconvenience, I
find it fair and reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mr M a further £130.00 in addition to the
£370.00, a total of £500.00. As Mr M says he hasnt banked one of the cheques, I will direct
Admiral to pay him £500.00 insofar as it hasnt already paid him that amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr M:
1. the amount of £522.44 in reimbursement for the throttle body; and
2. simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 25 August 2021 to the date 
of Admirals reimbursement. If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. £500.00 (insofar as it hasnt already paid him that amount) for distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman