DRN-3637083
The complaint
Mr B complains Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited unreasonably delayed 
the transfer of his Self-Invested Personal Pension to a new provider causing him a financial 
loss. 
What happened
Mr B held a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited (HLAM) since 2006, which was in partial drawdown. He managed it 
himself through HLAMs online platform. In late November 2019 Mr B wished to transfer his 
funds away from HLAM, so he opened a SIPP discretionary investment account with another 
provider Ill refer to as C, administered by firm E.
On 4 December 2019 E provided a copy of Mr Bs transfer authority to HLAM, and asked 
that they liaise with C, to re-register and transfer the assets on an in-specie basis. E asked 
HLAM for a list of Mr Bs holdings to be transferred in-specie so they could check 
permissibility. 
HLAM acknowledged the transfer to Mr B by letter dated 16 December 2019, which 
explained transfers could take six weeks or even longer. It told Mr B while the transfer was 
underway he wouldnt be able to trade online, but he could use the telephone dealing service 
at online prices. HLAM received Mr Bs completed transfer-out form on 3 February 2020 
which requested that all funds in his SIPP and drawdown account be transferred in-specie.
Unfortunately some of Mr Bs funds couldnt be held by C, so those had to be sold and 
transferred in cash, after the in-specie element transferred. When Mr B tried to access his 
account online it was effectively frozen, and he was unable to trade. The in-specie elements 
were transferred to C in March 2020 and the cash element was transferred in April 2020. So 
instead of six weeks the transfer took around 14 weeks, although there was a further 
difficulty with the Schroders funds which were returned to HLAM by C and had to be re-sent. 
Mr B says the transfer to C wasnt fully completed until July 2020. If it had taken the stated 
six weeks, it wouldve been completed prior to the pandemic-related market turmoil in mid-
March, and C couldve restructured his portfolio limiting his loss. In addition HLAM cancelled 
Mr Bs contribution direct debit so he missed contributions for January, February and March 
2020. Mr B calculates his loss at over £43,000, plus the loss of tax relief on the contributions 
he wouldve made to his SIPP had the direct debit not been cancelled. So he complained. 
HLAM apologised for the transfer taking longer than expected, but as it was largely in-specie 
Mr B hadnt been out of the market, so thered been no investment loss. But they offered 
£150 for the inconvenience the delay caused. Mr B felt this was wholly inadequate, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
Provisional decision 
As the complaint had been considered by two of our investigators and agreement couldnt be 
reached, I issued a provisional decision on this case. I made the following findings:
How long should the transfer to C have taken?
I understand Mr Bs frustration that an in specie transfer of his SIPP which he thought 
would be relatively straightforward took so long. He hadnt been warned by HLAM that some 
funds couldnt be transferred in specie. But some holdings had to be sold and transferred in 
cash as his new provider C couldnt accept some of the assets in specie. That was 
unfortunate but not something I can hold HLAM responsible for. 
I think the timescale in HLAMs letter of 16 December 2019 was for guidance purposes, as it 
refers to transfers taking six weeks or even longer and that its reliant on the efficiency of 
the new provider. The letter also advised that Mr B was due tax relief on a number of dates, 
so the transfer couldnt complete until after 21 February 2020 unless Mr B agreed to the 
transfer proceeding without the tax relief being received. Im satisfied HLAM did cause a 
delay at the outset by not sending out the right forms on 30 December 2019, which meant 
nothing much happened until Mr B himself chased on 3 January 2020. So while it wasnt 
necessarily guaranteed the transfer would take six weeks, it seems all parties accept that 
had things progressed as they should, the transfer would have completed by 17 February 
2020.
Was Mr B prevented from trading or switching while the transfer was in progress?
The section of the 16 December 2019 letter headed Once the transfer is underway advised 
that during this time Mr Bs holdings may still show in his HLAM account but hed be 
unable to sell them online but you may be able to sell at online rates using the telephone 
dealing service. Mr B says he interpreted during this time to mean that he wouldnt be able 
to trade online during the six weeks the transfer was expected to take. Once that period had 
expired, (around 14 February 2020), he logged on to his HLAM account to check his holding 
and received the pop-up message telling him he couldnt trade. Mr B has provided a screen 
shot of the pop-up message which he says is the crux of his unresolved complaint point. The 
message read Please note  you have asked to transfer out part of this holding and your 
request is currently being processed. Therefore, you will only be able to sell the units which 
are not due to be transferred.  Mr B says the pop-up didnt give him the option of trading by 
telephone, so he was misled. 
I didnt think the pop-up message superseded the 16 December 2019 letter. The pop-up was 
generic as it referred to part of the holding being transferred when in fact Mr Bs SIPP and 
drawdown account were being transferred in full to a new provider. I thought the pop-up 
would arise on any attempt to trade once a holding was in the process of being transferred, 
whether partial or in full. Mr Bs transfer request had been acknowledged in writing and this 
letter clearly explained that once a transfer has been instructed and is underway regardless 
of how long it eventually takes to complete, those funds cannot be traded online. So there 
was no reason in my view for Mr B to have logged on to the HLAM platform. 
Mr B may have habitually checked his holdings every few days and switched funds as 
appropriate, so being unable to do so while the transfer was in progress wouldve been 
frustrating. But HLAM had offered the telephone dealing service, so I didnt agree Mr B was 
prevented from trading, only that he couldnt do so online. 
Mr B told our investigator that when he accessed the platform on 14 February 2020 it wasnt 
to actually trade, but just to check his holding, so presumably he couldve telephoned for 
current asset values as well. In any event, this was at the very start of the pandemic and 
prior to any market turmoil which didnt have a significant impact until mid-March. So its not 
certain he wouldve made changes then, even if he could have. Following the transfer, C has 
reviewed Mr Bs portfolio and made a number of changes. But that doesnt mean it would be 
fair to compensate Mr B for the lost opportunity to sell or switch his investments, as he or C couldve made changes using the telephone dealing service. I cant hold HLAM responsible 
for Mr Bs actions in this respect. 
Putting things right for the cash element
C was unable to accept a number of funds within Mr Bs holding - one of HLs funds from his 
SIPP and three from his drawdown account (two are HLs own funds and the other Ill refer 
to as LT). Mr B says he received a profit warning for LT and had he been able to trade he 
wouldve done so prior it being sold to cash by HLAM. As Ive mentioned above, I think he 
couldve used the telephone dealing service for that.
HLAM calculated that if the funds which couldnt be transferred in-specie had been sold in 
time for the cash to be transferred on 17 February 2020, Mr B wouldve been better off by 
just under £13,965. Had that happened I thought Mr B wouldve invested those funds rather 
than leave them in cash. Its not possible to say what Mr B wouldve done and it wouldnt be 
fair to allow the application of hindsight. So I agreed that a benchmark is the fairest way to 
ensure Mr B doesnt lose out on potential investment growth. 
Our investigator had selected the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index, 
which Mr B queried as his portfolio contains some US equities. In fact this index does 
contain some global equities but its heavily weighted in bonds. I dont have access to 
information about Mr Bs attitude to risk or his current investment strategy. But as hes 
explained his portfolio with C is made up of equities including global, I thought a more 
appropriate index to reflect his investment preferences would be the FTSE UK Private 
Investor Growth index, as this is made up of mainly UK and global equities and a far lower 
proportion of bonds. 
So I set out how I thought the redress should be calculated, using that index. I also said 
HLAM should pay Mr B £250 for the inconvenience he experienced. 
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties responded to the provisional decision. 
HLAMs response 
HLAM accepted the transfer to C should have completed on 17 February 2020. But it 
thought the loss calculation should be based on the period between then and 20 April 
2020, as after 20 April 2020 Mr B had access to the funds to invest as he wished.
They didnt think there was evidence Mr B had suffered investment loss on the in-
specie element. Apart from those which couldnt be transferred in specie, Mr B 
remained invested throughout, and by choosing to transfer in specie Mr B mustve been 
broadly happy to stay in those same investments with his new provider. Otherwise he 
would have chosen to sell his whole portfolio and transfer in cash. 
Mr Bs response 
Mr B responded at length making the following points (in summary). 
The transfer wasnt completed on 20 April 2020, as the Schroders funds were finally 
transferred on 2 July 2020, and C didnt actually receive them until 22 July 2020, 
selling them two days later; The 16 December 2019 letter said a transfer to a new provider would only take longer 
than six weeks if delays were caused by the new provider. As C caused none of the 
delays the transfer should have taken a maximum of six weeks, a timescale Mr B still 
considered excessive; 
While Mr B acknowledged an in-specie transfer meant his funds remained invested, 
he disagreed that this meant he hadnt suffered a loss. He said the point of the transfer 
to C was so a DFM could review and restructure his entire portfolio towards holdings 
which could resist negative market movements. Had the transfer completed when it 
should have, the restructuring would have completed before the pandemic-related 
market fall;
The fact C hadnt immediately restructured his portfolio once it was in their hands is 
irrelevant to the consideration of the complaint; 
It was unfair to suggest that by not trading by phone he somehow contributed to the 
loss, when the responsibility lay 100% with HLAM; 
In any case, the theoretical ability to trade (by using the telephone service) didnt 
benefit him, as he was relying on Cs expertise to make decisions about his portfolio;
He maintained the pop-up message which he saw when logging on to the HLAM 
platform (which didnt mention being able to trade by phone) superseded the contents 
of the 16 December 1999 letter. He wasnt told he could trade by phone when he 
called HLAM on 18 February 2020 to find out what was happening with the transfer to 
C, or in any subsequent communications. And the pop-up message said the transfer 
was in progress, which he took to mean it would be completed imminently; 
HLAM hadnt made him aware certain funds couldnt be transferred in specie, so 
would need to be sold and the proceeds transferred in cash. It wasnt the case C 
couldnt accept those funds, it was that they were exclusive to HLAMs platform; 
HLAM hadnt warned him the contribution direct debit would be cancelled, and Mr B 
had been worried about the tax implications if he contributed to his new SIPP before 
the HLAM account was closed;
He completely rejected the principle of making a notional deduction to reflect the tax 
due if the redress was to be paid in cash to him direct rather than to his SIPP;
He felt the £250 compensation proposed was inadequate to reflect the stress, 
inconvenience and time hed incurred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their patience while Ive reconsidered this case. I assure Mr 
B I have read all his submissions, but I wont be addressing every point. My decision 
focusses on what I consider to be the key issues in this complaint. 
Transfer timescale Its been accepted if the transfer had happened without delay, it wouldve been completed 
by 17 February 2020. HLAM provided screenshot evidence to show the cash element of Mr 
Bs SIPP (just over £24,285) was transferred to Mr Bs new provider C on 2 April 2020 but 
the cash element of his drawdown fund (just over £60,929) was completed on 4 May 2020, 
the additional delay HLAM acknowledged was due to them sending the Drawdown 
Discharge form to Mr B rather than to C.
Im aware Mr B disagrees on this point, but I dont think the timescale given in the 
acknowledgement letter means transfers will definitely take six weeks, unless there are 
delays caused by third parties outside HLAMs control. The six weeks or longer was an 
indicative average timescale, as some transfers encounter problems which cant be 
foreseen (such as C being unable to accept some of Mr Bs funds in specie). Mr B recalled 
and relied on the six-week timescale stated in HLAMs acknowledgement letter, but not the 
warning that once the transfer was in progress, however long that might be, hed be unable 
to use the online service. I cant agree with Mr Bs interpretation that the inability to trade 
online only applied for the first six weeks, or that the pop-up message superseded the 
information contained in the letter. I think HLAM had made it clear once the transfer was 
underway Mr B had effectively given notice to close his HLAM account, and would no 
longer have access to its online service. But it provided the reasonable alternative of 
telephone dealing at online prices. So I remain of the view there was no reason for Mr B to 
access his online account once hed instructed the transfer.  
Cash element  
HLAMs original calculation showed a loss of £13,965. I asked it to revisit that calculation 
had the units been sold on 11 February in time for the transfer to complete on 17 February 
2020. This showed an updated loss of £14,180.08 (made up of £3,2180.86 in relation to the 
SIPP and £10,961.12 for the drawdown account). So this is the figure to which the 
calculation of any investment loss should be based. 
In-specie element
But the outstanding issue remained what Mr B calls the loss of opportunity arising from 
the delay on the in-specie element. Mr B cant show how his portfolio wouldve been 
restructured had the transfer completed earlier, as the investment decisions wouldve been 
made by the DFM from C, based on fund values and market sentiment at the time. HLAM 
says the fact Mr B chose to transfer in-specie demonstrates he must have been happy with 
his portfolio and intended to remain invested in broadly the same stocks. Otherwise he 
wouldve asked HLAM to sell everything and transfer the funds in cash. Cash transfers tend 
to be quicker but being out of the market risks losing investment growth. As far as Im 
aware Mr B wasnt advised on this, an in-specie transfer was his choice, so it looks like he 
didnt want to risk being out of the market, even if the transfer only took six weeks or less. 
So however long the transfer took, Mr B remained invested throughout, apart from those 
holdings which had to be sold and transferred in cash. 
I appreciate Mr B wished to use the expertise of a DFM to restructure his portfolio, and it 
wouldnt be practical to take advice from the DFM and make telephone trades while his 
funds were still with HLAM. But I still think once it became clear the transfer was likely to 
take six weeks or more, Mr B had the option of giving telephone instructions to HLAM to 
sell some holdings (such as the LT funds) and transfer the cash to C, for the DFM to invest 
on his behalf. It's HLAMs process, and I think common practice, to send the cash element 
of a portfolio after the in-specie element has transferred, and Im satisfied this was 
explained to Mr B. And he was given the option in April 2020 to have the cash element 
transferred ahead of the outstanding stocks, but he chose not to do this. Our approach in a case like this would usually be to look at what someone actually did 
once the transfer completed, and say that if the delay hadnt happened, they wouldve done 
the same thing but at an earlier date.
Mr B says that had the transfer been completed more quickly, his new DFM wouldve had 
the opportunity to restructure his portfolio prior to the pandemic-related market turmoil, and 
the funds wouldve been put to work leading to a considerable increase in value by now. 
However he also claims the DFM wouldve steered his portfolio towards holdings which 
could resist negative market movements. It seems C didnt restructure Mr Bs portfolio as 
soon as the funds were received, but Mr B says this is because the market had already 
fallen, meaning the investment decisions C made would be different than if the transfer had 
completed earlier. I think this is said with an element of hindsight, as fear about the impact 
of the pandemic on his portfolio wasnt the reason for the transfer. Mr B had specific 
unrelated reasons for wishing to leave HLAM.
Mr B didnt think the investigators original choice of benchmark index reflected his 
portfolios weighting in US equities, now its with C. Which suggests its not completely de-
risked. Im not sure Mr Bs portfolio could be both protected from negative market 
movements and achieve considerable growth over a period where global markets were 
impacted by the pandemic. I understand Mr Bs frustration that the transfer took place after 
the pandemic-related falls, but markets started to recover quite quickly, and any stock 
purchases after C restructured  his portfolio may have been at lower prices than if the 
transfer had taken place earlier. On balance I think Mr B wouldve been somewhat exposed 
to the impact of the pandemic even after he moved to C. So while the transfer couldve 
happened sooner than it did, I cant fairly say HLAM is responsible for any investment loss 
on the in-specie element. Mr B chose not to transfer his whole portfolio in cash, he  had 
access to the telephone dealing service for urgent trades, and theres no evidence to show 
hed have avoided the market volatility in any case.
The delayed Schroders funds
HLAM corrected Mr Bs assumption that only it can hold HLAM funds, as the HL Multi-
Manager Special Situations Fund (in his SIPP) and the HL Multi-Manager Income & Growth 
Fund (in his SIPP Income Drawdown Account) were successfully transferred to C. They 
acknowledged the frustration the suspended funds wouldve caused, but that was outside 
their control. 
With regard to the Schroders funds valued at around £65,000 HLAM explained they were 
originally transferred electronically in-specie on 25 March 2020 but were returned by C. 
This was due to a discrepancy in the number of units, which had originally been quoted as 
481.4 but then increased to 482.83 due to the reinvestment of a loyalty bonus rebate which 
HLAM hadnt made C aware of
That element of the transfer didnt complete until 2 July 2020, due to a combination of 
processing delays by HLAM and the nominee details changing. I cant hold HLAM 
responsible for delays caused by the change of nominees, but it seems HLAM did delay the 
funds being sent back to C, so as this was a significant proportion of Mr Bs portfolio I think 
HLAM should pay an additional £250 to reflect the inconvenience this caused to Mr B. 
 
contribution direct debit
Im satisfied HLAM did advise Mr B his contribution direct debit would be cancelled as part of 
the transfer process. Its acknowledgement letter read Regular savings: if applicable, we'll 
also cancel any regular savings set up on this account. As these are usually collected on the 7th of the month, if the transfer falls close to this date it's possible your bank could still make 
the payment. If this happens, we'll transfer the cash to your new provider.
And it provided a copy of the transfer form signed by Mr B on 30 January 2020 which said 
.I understand all regular payments being made to my SIPP will be cancelled on receipt 
of this form unless I have given written instructions to the contrary. Please accept this as 
my authority to contact my employer to cancel these contributions where applicable. 
It seems Mr B didnt want to start contributing to his new SIPP with C before his HLAM 
account was closed, as he was worried about the tax implications. But he hasnt been 
deprived of those funds, so may be able to make up the missing contributions if he wishes. 
I cant see HLAM has done anything wrong in this respect. 
Conclusion 
In summary, while I acknowledge the whole transfer took longer than it should have, Im not 
persuaded HLAM should compensate Mr B for the in-specie element, as I cant be sure 
hes suffered a financial loss.
HLAM should however compensate him for the delay to the cash element and uplift this to 
reflect the loss of investment growth (if there was a loss) while the funds were out of the 
market.
It should also pay a sum to reflect the inconvenience and worry the delay caused Mr B. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if the cash element of the transfer had happened on 17 February 2020. Im 
satisfied that once received by C, Mr B (through his DFM) would have invested those 
funds. But I cant be sure how they wouldve been invested, or how quickly. Due to the 
changing market conditions Mr B says the investment decisions he actually took arent 
necessarily reflective of what hed have done in February 2020 prior to the market turmoil. 
And without knowing what he wouldve done, theres no way of knowing how his chosen 
investments wouldve performed.
So with all this uncertainty Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable 
given what we know of his circumstances.
What must HLAM do?
HLAMs original calculation showed a loss of £13,965. I asked it to revisit that 
calculation as if the units had been sold on 11 February in time for the transfer to 
complete on 17 February 2020. This showed an updated loss of £14,180.08 (made 
up of £3,2180.86 from the SIPP and £10,961.12 from the drawdown account).
To reflect the loss of investment growth, it should then uplift that figure in line with 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth index from 17 February 2020 to the dates the 
cash was transferred to C (2 April for the SIPP and 4 May for the drawdown 
account). As from that point Mr B and his DFM had the opportunity to invest the 
cash as they wished. If this shows a loss then this should also be added to the 
redress. HLAM has carried out this calculation and advised that the index fell  by 16.8% and -11.35% respectively, so Mr B hasnt lost any investment growth over 
the period. So HLAM should pay Mr B £14,180.08.
This amount should be paid into Mr B's pension plan with C, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If HLAM is unable to pay the compensation into Mr B's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him as a cash payment. But had it been possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it 
isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr B wont be able to reclaim any of the 
reduction after compensation is paid. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the notional deduction to represent tax should only take 
place if the funds are paid to Mr B in cash, no such deduction should be made if the 
redress is paid to his pension plan. 
I understand Mr B objects to this notional deduction for tax, but Ive explained to him 
separately why its standard for our decisions to provide for redress to be paid in 
cash, if payment into a pension plan isnt possible or might have tax or allowance 
implications.
Mr B hasnt corrected my assumption that hes likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr B would have 
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of 
the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%. 
Pay Mr B £250 for distress and inconvenience for the transfer taking longer than it 
should have, and an additional £250 for the delay in resending the Schroders fund 
(so £500 in total), deducting any compensation already paid. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of the final decision to date of 
settlement (if not settled within 28 days HLAM being informed of Mr Bs 
acceptance). 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If HLAM deducts income tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. On request HLAM 
should give Mr B a tax deduction certificate, so he can reclaim the tax on interest 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
I think Mr B wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Growth index is made up of a range of indices with 
different asset classes, mainly UK and global equities including US. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should put things right as set out above.
It should provide Mr B with a copy of its loss calculations in a clear and simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman