DRN-4204957
The complaint
Mr A complains about how esure Insurance Limited, trading as esure (Esure) handled his 
claim after he was involved in an accident. 
What happened
Mr A has a motor insurance policy with esure. 
Mr A was involved in a road traffic accident in June 2021 but he first heard about the claim 
from his new insurer in November 2021. 
Mr A says he provided details of the circumstances of the incident to esure. Mr A says he 
was driving back home, there was a lot of traffic and the road was heavily congested. The 
driver in front of him was driving at around 5mph when he suddenly stopped. Mr A says he 
also stopped but there was a minor impact between the front of his car, and the back of the 
third-party vehicle. 
Mr A says he and the third-party driver moved over to the left-hand side of the tunnel to allow 
traffic flow to continue. Mr A says neither driver was hurt and very little, if any, damage was 
caused. The third-party said there was damage to his back light but Mr A says it wasnt 
possible given the nature of the incident. Mr A took some photographs of both vehicles at the 
scene. 
Mr A says he didnt exchange details with the third party since the cars barely touched and 
there appeared to be no damage to either vehicle.  Mr A reported the incident to the police at 
the time and both drivers went their separate ways. 
Mr A received a notice about the claim and told esure he disputed it. He says the impact 
could have caused the damage being claimed. He emailed esure but didnt receive a 
response. In December 2021 Mr A received a phone call from a company asking to inspect 
his vehicle to confirm whether there was any damage consistent with the claim. The 
inspection took place the following month. Mr A heard nothing further. 
In September 2022 Mr As policy with esure expired and he took out insurance with another 
provider. The new insurer wrote to Mr A to say he had failed to notify them of the claim from 
June 2021 and increased his premium by £400. 
Mr A contacted esure to understand what had happened with the claim. Mr A wasnt happy 
that he hadnt been made aware of the claim or kept updated as to the outcome, which left 
him unaware of how it would affect him. Mr A complained to esure. He wants it to remove 
the claim from his history and pay him compensation for the cost increase on his current 
policy. 
Esure accepted it hadnt communicated with Mr A as it should have, in particular following 
the inspection of his vehicle in January 2022. But esure said its lack of communication didnt 
alter the liability position, esure had received an independent report which stated the 
damage of Mr As vehicle was consistent with the accident circumstances. And in this case it 
would be unable to settle the claim as non-fault. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the response from esure and so he referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into things for him. He said while esure should have been 
clearer in its communication with Mr A, he was satisfied esure acted fairly by settling the 
third-partys claim based on the evidence it had. The investigator also said Mr A had 
admitted to the two vehicles making contact and there was an independent report stating the 
damage was consistent with the accident circumstances. And so Mr As complaint wasnt 
upheld. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said he assumed the claim had been rejected due to the lack of 
damage, and the insurer hadnt told him the claim had settled, which Mr A says it should 
have. 
Because Mr A didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A and 
I know this isnt the answer he wanted I will explain my decision below. 
I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr A. Ive no doubt it would have 
been upsetting for Mr A to have been involved in a road traffic accident. And I understand 
why he feels unfairly treated by esure. He feels esure should have kept Mr A updated as to 
the developments of the claim.
Outcome of the claim  
Mr A is unhappy esure didnt inform him as to the outcome of the claim which meant he 
didnt declare the matter to his current insurer. Ive reviewed the information provided by 
both parties. 
Esure accepted it didnt communicate with Mr A as it should have and accepted it didnt 
advise him of the outcome of the claim. Ive thought carefully about what impact this had on 
Mr A. He says because he wasnt told about the outcome he didnt tell his new insurer about 
it. But Mr A was aware of the claim since he had been notified about it, and his car had been 
inspected to assess the level of damage. So whilst I agree esure should have told Mr A the 
claim had been settled Mr A was aware of the claim, and when taking out his new policy is 
likely to have been asked about previous claims and incidents. And at that stage it would be 
your responsibility to notify the insurer of anything that may impact the new policy. 
Claim and increased premium 
Mr A says esure didnt consult him before accepting the claim. But esure doesnt have to. On 
page 21 of the terms of the policy, under section 5 claims procedure it says, we have full 
discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal proceedings which may arise and we 
may take over, defend or settle the claim. So I cant say esure has done anything wrong in 
dealing with the claim without consulting Mr A. 
Esure has explained that since Mr A admits to touching the third-party vehicle and the fact 
the independent report says the damage to the vehicle is consistent with the incident details it would be difficult to defend a claim from the third party. I dont think esure acted 
unreasonably here since it relied on the evidence before it in order to come to that 
conclusion. 
Mr A isnt happy his insurance premium has increased following the accident. But I cant say 
this is esures fault. Since its likely his premium would have increased regardless of whether 
he declared the accident at the outset or after the event, as has happened here. Any claim 
recorded as fault is likely to impact the cost of any subsequent insurance policy. And since 
esure has been unable to recover its costs from the third party the incident is correctly 
recorded as a fault claim. 
I understand Mr A is very unhappy with this matter. And that is understandable given whats 
happened. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr A. But overall I think esure has acted fairly and 
reasonably in line with the policy terms and conditions. It has accepted its communication fell 
short of what it would expect and apologised for this. And so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman