DRN-4250856
The complaint
Miss D and Mr M complained their policy was cancelled back to the inception date and their 
claim for damage following a leak was declined. They had a home insurance policy with QIC 
Europe Ltd (QIC).
What happened
Miss D and Mr M made a claim for damage caused to their property from a leak. QIC 
reviewed and validated the claim.
QIC didnt think Miss D and Mr M represented themselves accurately when they renewed 
their policy. It advised that staying at the property to carry out renovations, does not mean 
that the property is lived in as a second home or commuter home which is how Miss D and 
Mr M represented themselves.
QIC also believed the property was unoccupied and unfurnished. It said, had it been aware 
of this fact, it wouldnt have offered insurance in the first place. Therefore, it cancelled the 
policy. It also said escape of water isnt covered by the policy in the event the property is left 
unoccupied or unfurnished.
Miss D and Mr M disagreed. They said they had been staying in the property three or four 
nights per week whilst carrying out renovations. They said they had been sleeping on a 
mattress and had stored many of their possessions in the garage. They want their claim paid 
in full.
Our investigator decided to not uphold the complaint. She didnt think Miss D and Mr M had 
provided enough evidence the property was being lived in, so she thought QIC had been 
reasonable in applying the terms and conditions of the policy to decline the claim. Miss D 
and Mr M disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer will cover several risks and scenarios when they say they will insure a property, 
but most policies will include exclusions on circumstances the insurer isnt happy to provide 
cover or policy limits which reduces their exposure. In return for this, the insurer accepts a 
premium from the policyholder. If insurers offered limitless cover, the premiums would be 
much higher  so they try to offer reasonable cover at a pragmatic cost. Its essentially a 
commercial decision for the insurer and a prospective policyholder can shop around and buy 
a policy that suits them at a price thats affordable.
Unfortunately, having reviewed the circumstances of Miss D and Mr Ms claim, I wont be 
upholding this complaint. I think QIC have been reasonable in saying the property wasnt 
occupied and was unfurnished, so was fair in declining the claim as the escape of water peril 
is excluded from the cover of the policy in this scenario. Ill explain why, but I think an 
unoccupied property adds additional risk for an insurer in providing cover.
I appreciate Miss D and Mr M provided a testimony that they were renovating their property, 
which they used as a second home. They said they were staying at the property between 3 
or 4 times per week at the time of the reported incident, which they say meant the property 
was lived in.
QIC has provided evidence from its surveyor that the property was unfurnished when he 
visited the property. Miss D and Mr M said they threw away the mattress they were using as 
it had become damaged by the leak. They also said they had moved most of the furniture 
out of the house to prevent it from been further damaged  with some being left in the 
garage. They also said they had removed their clothes from the property to allow them to be 
washed following the incident.
QIC has provided evidence that the house was on the market shortly before the incident. 
Miss D and Mr M confirmed it was briefly on the market for rent. Having looked at the sales 
particulars, the interior of the house already looks in excellent condition  so, I think if any 
remaining renovations were carried out I would think these were extremely minor. I also think 
the furniture on show in these particulars are consistent with what the surveyor shared in his 
report (i.e., extremely minimal). I find QICs evidence more persuasive than the written 
testimony from Miss D and Mr M which doesnt come with any supporting evidence. Even 
though, Miss D and Mr M intimated they added furniture after the photos were taken, I find 
QICs logic more plausible.
Ive checked the policy and it doesnt cover escape of water when the property is either 
unfurnished or not lived in. I think the policy terms are clear on this point and were explained 
in QICs final response. As I think QIC has proven its likely the house wasnt lived in or 
contained furniture. I think it has been fair in declining the claim.
Ive then considered whether I think QIC were fair in cancelling the policy. I think it was. It 
fully refunded Miss D and Mr Ms premiums. I think this was the most favourable outcome for 
them. They couldnt benefit from a claim and QIC refunded any money paid for that years 
cover. So, I dont think this action has been detrimental for Miss D and Mr M, so I dont 
uphold their complaint.
I see that Miss D and Mr M said after the final response that they thought QIC had used bully 
tactics and had cancelled their insurance then reinstated it. They said they were mis-sold 
contents and accidental cover. As I cant see this specific point was raised with QIC directly, 
I dont have jurisdiction to look at it. Miss D and Mr M can raise this new complaint with QIC 
and once QIC has had opportunity to respond to it, our service can look at this if Miss D and 
Mr M choose to escalate it to us.
Ive not considered Miss D and Mr Ms SAR (GDPR) request either. As our investigator has 
explained to them, this is better dealt with by the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) 
who can look at how Miss D and Mr Ms request was handled. However, I dont think any 
new information received would change my view that the policy didnt cover Miss D and Mr 
Ms circumstances in this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require QIC Europe Ltd to do 
anymore.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman