DRN-4317796
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the service received from BUPA Insurance Limited and that 
it had changed a term in its private medical insurance policy (the policy) without telling them 
in advance. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have had the benefit of private medical insurance with BUPA for many years. 
In May 2022 Mrs C was referred for a private medical consultation. A claim was made on the 
policy and, as Mrs C didnt have an excess on her policy, it was paid by BUPA in full. 
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that they didnt receive a claim advice statement (setting out the 
cost of the consultation). As such, when Mrs C required further tests and consultations 
during the same policy year, they say they were denied the opportunity of weighing up the 
option of self-funding further medical costs or claiming on the policy  knowing that Mrs Cs 
no claims discount would reduce. 
BUPA covered further medical costs incurred in June and July 2022, and January 2023. Mr 
and Mrs C didnt receive a claim advice statement setting out the cost of these 
appointments.
At the next policy renewal in early 2023, Mr and Mrs C were unhappy to find that the 
premium had increased by so much, due to Mrs Cs no claim discount being reduced from 
70% to 62% in line with the policy terms. 
Mr C contacted BUPA and was told that four claim advice statements had been sent by post 
in June and July 2022, and January 2023. He was emailed these again. 
Mr and Mrs C then noticed that the claim advice statements BUPA had purportedly sent by 
post had been addressed to Mrs C rather than Mr C. Previous claim advice statements in 
respect of treatment received by Mrs C had been sent to Mr C. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt think it was plausible that four claim advice statements had been sent to 
them at different times and all had been lost in the post. They also had questions around 
why they hadnt been informed of the change in process from sending claim advice 
statements to the person who had the treatment rather than the main member directly. 
In its final response letter dated March 2023, BUPA explained that it had changed its terms 
and conditions in 2020 to reflect that it would only write to the member with the costs 
incurred in relation to the claim if there was an amount to be paid by the member. BUPA also 
confirmed that the four advice statements had never been sent by post to Mr or Mrs C.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs C complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
looked into what happened. As BUPAs final response letter addressed many concerns 
raised by Mr and Mrs C, he sought to clarify the complaint points Mr and Mrs C wanted the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to investigate. And having confirmed this, our investigator 
partially upheld their complaint. Our investigator recommended BUPA pay Mr and Mrs C 
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by being told on the phone that 
the claim advice statements had been sent by post when they hadnt. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt think this amount was sufficient in the circumstances. So, their 
complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA has an obligation to treat customers fairly.
Being told that claim advice statements had been sent by post
Ive listened to the phone call Mr C had with one of BUPAs representatives in early February 
2023. He was told that BUPAs systems reflected that the four claim advice statements had 
been generated and sent. Mr C was also sent the statements by email during the call. 
BUPA accepts in its final response letter that the claim advice statements hadnt been sent 
by post.
Im satisfied that because Mr C was given the wrong information during the call which took 
place in early February 2023, Mr and Mrs C both experienced unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. 
Im satisfied that during this call and subsequent calls Ive listened to that Mr C was 
concerned that the claim advice statements couldnt have been posted to his and Mrs Cs 
address; that it wasnt plausible for four separate statements to go missing. He felt there 
mustve been an error BUPAs end. It transpires he was right. The statements were never 
posted. 
As a result, a number of calls took place regarding this issue and he and Mrs C were put to 
the trouble of searching through their paperwork to be sure that they hadnt been received 
previously and raising further questions in writing. I think this could have all been avoided if 
they had been given the correct information. 
Change in circumstances when BUPA sends claim advice settlement letters
Mr and Mrs C are also unhappy that BUPA changed a term in its policy regarding the 
circumstances when claim advice statements would be sent and to whom. 
BUPA accepts that in earlier policy documents it said:
In many cases we have arrangements in place with providers about how much they 
charge our members for treatment and how we pay them. For treatment costs 
covered under your benefits we will, in most cases, pay the provider of your 
treatment direct  such as the recognised facility or consultant  or whichever the 
person or facility is entitled to receive the payment. Otherwise we will pay the main 
member. We will write to tell the main member how we have dealt with any claim.
Subsequently, in around 2020, the term changed. It said:
You will have a contract with the Consultant/medical practitioner/healthcare 
professional and/or clinic/hospital for private medical Treatment and you are responsible for paying for them. If your Treatment is covered, we will pay the amount 
covered. We usually pay direct although occasionally we may pay you. Any amount 
not covered is your responsibility. We will write to tell the Main Member or 
Dependant having Treatment (when aged 16 or over) when there is an amount 
for them to pay in relation to any claim (for example, if they have an excess 
amount to pay) and who the payment should be made to (my emphasis).
The insurance certificate lists Mr C as the main member and Mrs C as the (first) dependant. 
Im satisfied this means where the member/dependant doesnt have to pay anything towards 
the medical costs incurred (like Mrs C in circumstances of this case), BUPA wouldnt send 
claim advice statements anymore. BUPA says in its final response letter that this is due to 
the impact of printing and posting letters has on the environment. And it only sends these out 
when necessary.
That was the term in place in 2022/2023. So, Im persuaded that BUPA acted fairly, and in 
line with the terms of the policy, by not sending the claim advice statements to Mrs C in 2022 
and early 2023. Thats because Mr and Mrs C didnt need to pay anything towards the 
medical costs being incurred then.
However, Mr and Mrs C say BUPA didnt make them aware of this change to the policy. Ive 
considered whether BUPA ought to have notified them of the change. I dont think it 
reasonably should have. When a policy is being renewed and/or changes are being made to 
the policy terms, an insurer is under an obligation to set out to the policyholder clearly and 
fairly any significant changes to the terms and conditions in advance. 
I dont think BUPAs decision to no longer send out claim advice statements when there is 
nothing for the main member/dependant to pay towards medical costs  and BUPAs 
decision that it would only send these directly to the dependant (aged 16 or over) if costs 
were incurred for them - is a significant change. So, I dont think it should have been 
specifically highlighted to Mr and Mrs C at the time. Im satisfied the term is included in the 
policy terms and conditions. 
However, I do accept that when Mr C asked questions about how long this process had 
been in place for during calls with BUPAs representative in February 2023, he wasnt given 
a clear answer as he should have been. He didnt receive clarity on this issue until the final 
response letter. And I accept this caused upset to Mr and Mrs C.
Consent
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Mrs C had given consent to discuss her policy and 
medical details with Mr C at the end of January 2023. Thats why, for example, BUPAs 
representative was able to email him the claim advice statements addressed to Mrs C (but 
never in fact posted to her) during the call in early February 2023. So, I dont think BUPA 
acted unfairly in this respect.
Distress and inconvenience
I think £100 compensation fairly and reasonably reflects the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs C as a result of the incorrect and unclear information Mr C was given 
over the phone when speaking with BUPAs representative earlier in February 2023. 
Putting things right
I direct BUPA to pay Mr and Mrs C £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. For the avoidance of doubt thats in addition to the £50 compensation already paid by BUPA 
and mentioned in its final response letter. Thats because this was paid as compensation in 
respect of a different concern raised by Mr and Mrs C (which doesnt form part of the overall 
complaint Mr and Mrs C has asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to determine).
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct BUPA Insurance Limited to put things right as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman