DRN-4243707
The complaint
Mr O has complained about Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd. He isnt happy about the way 
it dealt with a claim under his motor breakdown insurance policy and the poor service he 
received.  
What happened
Mr Os car broke down on a very busy motorway and he called Building Block for assistance. 
As Mr O was in a very vulnerable position with his wife and young child Building Block 
classed his claim as a priority and reassured Mr O that a recovery agent would be with him 
soon, certainly within 90 minutes. But they didnt attend for well over three hours, so he 
complained to Building Block and then this Service. 
Building Block said that it was a very busy time when Mr O called up and didnt offer any 
compensation. But when our investigator looked into things she identified a number of 
delays that contributed to leaving Mr O and his family in an extremely vulnerable position at 
the side of the motorway. So, she thought it should pay £300 by way of compensation.
As Building Block didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed that Mr O was left in a very vulnerable position at the side of the motorway 
with his young family. And so, my focus in this complaint is purely about whether Mr O 
should be compensated, and if so by how much.
Ive listened to the calls and seen the photos that Mr O provided showing that he was stuck 
in a very vulnerable position at the side of a very busy motorway. And the situation was 
made more difficult as he had a very young child with him. And I also understand that his 
wife had been involved in a serious accident on a motorway before, so she found the 
position extremely worrying. 
Building Block has said that the delays Mr O faced were purely down to the amount of call 
outs that day and the pressure it put on the recovery network - although it hasnt provided 
any real evidence of this. And while I accept its point it is clear that there were a number of 
delays and errors that contributed to Mr Os prolonged wait at the side of a very busy 
motorway in a dangerous position.
For example, Mr O had to wait for nearly half an hour on hold to speak to an operator which 
clearly impacted recovery time. And the recovery driver was sent to the wrong side of the 
carriageway, even though Mr O had made it very clear to the call taker which direction he 
was travelling in, which clearly added a significant time delay. I say this having looked at the 
attending recovery vehicles log and the extreme high volume of traffic on the opposite 
carriageway. Plus, Mr O was told that the recovery agent would have the appropriate safety 
fixings for his young childs car seat when it didnt. All this must have been very worrying for 
Mr O so I agree he should be compensated. 
Turning to the level of compensation I have to consider the very vulnerable position Mr O 
was in at the side of the road. His child was very young, and his wife was even more upset 
given the added fear she faced from being involved in a serious car accident on a busy 
motorway before. And Building Block didnt really provide Mr O with meaningful updates 
about what was happening which must have increased the level of anxiety. 
Given all of this, and the fact that Building Block hasnt been able to explain the delay in 
attending someone in a very vulnerable position when they were supposed to be prioritising 
them, given their vulnerable roadside position and the fact they had a young child with them, 
I think the compensation suggested by our investigator feels fair. I say this as the added 
stress, delay, and lack of information caused Mr O and his family, who were in a vulnerable 
position and should have been prioritised, a great deal of anxiety, worry and upset. So, I 
agree that £300 feels fair in the particular circumstances of this case.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I require Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd to 
pay Mr O £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman