DRN-2548216
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) voided his home insurance policy 
following a claim. 
Mr B is represented on this case, but for ease, I will only refer to Mr B.
  
What happened
Mr B took out a home insurance policy with UKI over the telephone. While Mr B was on 
holiday, his home was burgled and a large amount of jewellery was stolen. The policy had a 
maximum limit of £100,000 for all contents with a valuables limit of 30% of this value. When 
Mr B made an insurance claim, UKI voided the policy (treated it like it never existed) 
because it said that the jewellery had been significantly, and deliberately, undervalued. 
During the claim, the stolen jewellery was valued at £99,669.86.
Mr B complained to UKI, but it maintained its decision to void the policy. So, Mr B 
complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that he 
thought UKI had appropriately assessed the claim and that it was fair and reasonable for it to 
void the policy on the basis of a qualifying misrepresentation.
As Mr B did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 December 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. This includes taking into account the question the consumer was asked, 
how clear it was, and whether their answer was incorrect. Its for the insurer to show what 
question was asked. And if the consumer answered the question correctly, there wont be a 
misrepresentation.
UKI thinks Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
took out the policy as he didnt accurately answer the questions about the value of the 
jewellery. So Ive thought about whether I agree.
UKI no longer has the call recordings for when Mr B took out the policy in 2016. This means 
that Ive been unable to listen to the call recording to check exactly what Mr B was asked  
and what his answer was. I asked UKI if it could provide a call script showing what Mr B 
would likely have been asked. UKI provided a document that showed each of the areas that 
were covered during the policy sales process and this showed that the UKI call handler 
needed to establish More than £100,000 contents cover or £20,000 Jewellery?. If the 
answer to that question was yes, the person would be transferred so that they could discuss 
another type of policy. UKI also provided a copy of the policy document from when Mr B first 
took out the policy and each of the renewal documents. None of these documents showed 
what Mr B was asked about insuring the jewellery. They simply stated a sum insured for 
contents and valuables.
So, it isnt clear exactly what Mr B was asked or how he answered. An insurer should ask a 
clear question. If Mr B was asked how much do you want to insure your jewellery for? that 
is different to being asked how much is your jewellery worth?. I think Mr B could have been 
asked either of those questions, as well as other variations on these. But, I simply dont 
know what UKI asked.
Mr B was required to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered the questions. But, I also dont know how he answered the questions about the 
jewellery as UKI hasnt been able to provide any record of this. So, it isnt possible to say 
whether Mr B made a misrepresentation, as there dont seem to be any records to show this 
one way or the other.
Mr B has given a number of reasons for why the jewellery was underinsured. This included 
that he only wanted to insure the jewellery up to the £30,000 limit of this policy, regardless of 
its actual value. Depending on what Mr B was asked, he might have answered the questions 
accurately, even if this didnt represent the true value of the jewellery.
The documents UKI sent Mr B included various statements about checking them for 
accuracy, such as:
Please check the Home Proposal Confirmation and ensure that the information
provided is correct. You must take care to provide us with accurate information.
If any of these details are incorrect, no longer entirely accurate or if you are
unsure about them, then please call us immediately as incorrect information
could adversely affect your policy, including invalidating your policy and causing
claims to be rejected or not fully paid.
But, again, depending on what Mr B was asked, he might have had no reason to think that 
his answers were inaccurate or that the information he gave was incorrect. Importantly, UKI 
also hasnt shown that the information Mr B provided was inaccurate or incorrect, despite the 
jewellery being valued at about £100,000 when it was stolen. This includes me taking into 
account the explanations that Mr B gave during the burglary claim for why the jewellery 
wasnt insured for its full value. Such as Mr B saying the purpose of taking out insurance was 
for loss minimisation rather than for the full replacement value and that he wasnt aware of 
the full value of the items. 
This isnt about giving Mr B the benefit of the doubt. Where an insurer says that there has 
been a misrepresentation, the insurer needs to show why that is the case. But in this 
instance, UKI cant show exactly what was asked, or that the questions were clear, and it 
cant show what Mr B answered. 
On that basis, Im currently minded to uphold this complaint. UKI hasnt shown that Mr B 
made a misrepresentation or that he didnt take reasonable care when he took out the policy 
or renewed it. So, Im also currently likely to say that UKI should reinstate Mr Bs policy, remove the voidance from the policy and reconsider the claim based on the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 22 January 2021.
Mr B accepted the decision.
UKI accepted the decision, but stressed that the claim would only be settled in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and the policy limits.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to maintain my provisional decision to uphold this complaint. 
As UKI have said, this claim should be settled in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and the policy limits that apply.
  
Putting things right
As a result, UKI should reinstate the policy, remove the voidance from Mr Bs policy and 
update the records of any internal or external databases. UKI should also reconsider the 
claim based on the terms and conditions of the policy.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to:
reinstate the policy and arrange any premium payments.
remove the voidance from Mr Bs policy.
update the records of any internal or external databases.
reconsider the claim based on the terms and conditions of the policy.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman