DRN-4136535
The complaint
This is a complaint about Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd.  Ms W and Mr W complain that 
Vanguard advised them wrongly about transferring Mr Ws child trust fund, held with another 
provider, and converting it to a Vanguard junior stocks and shares ISA (JISA). As a result, 
the transfer could not go ahead, and Mr W may have lost out on investment profits. 
What happened
Ms W wanted to set up a Vanguard stocks and shares ISA for her son who was under 18. 
She wanted to use the funds that were already held with another provider (Business F) in 
the form of a Child Trust Fund. She says Vanguard advised her to convert the child trust 
fund into a Business F JISA, and then transfer the Business F JISA over to a Vanguard 
stocks and shares JISA.
Ms W arranged for Business F to transfer the Child Trust Fund into a JISA. Ms W says this 
was set up as a Business F stocks and shares JISA. But, when Vanguard went to arrange to 
transfer this to their own stocks and shares JISA, they learnt that the Business F JISA had 
been set up with the name of Mr W as registered contact, instead of naming Ms W as the 
registered contact. This would mean Mr W, and not Ms W, would be responsible for 
decisions on the management of the JISA investments. 
Vanguard told Ms W it wouldnt accept an under-18 being responsible for managing a stocks 
and shares JISA. It says it is in its terms and conditions that you must be over 18 for such an 
account. 
Other than exceptional circumstances, that dont apply here, the regulations controlling 
JISAs didnt allow Ms W to be reinstated as registered contact, because Mr W was now over 
16.
Ms W says that, because of differences in performance between the Business F and the 
Vanguard stocks and shares JISAs, she estimates that Mr W has lost about £425 from the 
transfer not going ahead.  Ms W says that, in refusing to take Mr W as registered contact, 
Vanguard is going against the intentions of the HMRC regulations.
Vanguard offered £50 in compensation. It would appear this is because there was a period 
of confusion before Vanguard staff understood the problem that was stopping the transfer 
going ahead. 
Our investigator said he thought Vanguard had acted appropriately because it was adhering 
to legal requirements, and that £50 was fair redress for providing some incorrect information. 
Because Ms W and Mr W didnt agree with this, the matter came to me for a decision. 
When I looked at the case, I reached the same overall conclusion as that of the investigator. 
However, I had slightly different reasons and had also taken into account points raised since 
the investigator first gave his view of the case. So I wrote a provisional decision to give 
everyone the chance to make further comment. In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My current intention is not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
There are detailed HMRC rules around registering and managing a JISA between 
the ages of 16 and 18. 
The HMRC guidance says that it is possible for a parent to be registered contact for 
someone who is over 16:
A JISA application can only be made by:
the child, if aged 16 or over
a person with parental responsibility, including children who are over 
16
(www.gov.uk/guidance/junior-individual-savings-accounts-for-managers-isas-
setting-up-junior-isas#cash-and-stocks-and-shares-accounts )
The HMRC guidance (www.gov.uk/individual-savings-accounts) also says you need 
to be over 18 to open a stocks and shares ISA:
You must be:
16 or over for a cash ISA
18 or over for a stocks and shares or innovative finance ISA
It doesnt seem unreasonable, on the basis of this published HMRC guidance, for 
Vanguard to say it cant accept Mr W as eligible to open the stocks and shares JISA 
 and that it can only accept an application where an adult is the registered contact. 
And the HMRC guidance appears to fit in with Vanguards information on its own 
website, which says you cant open one of their stocks and shares ISAs if youre 
under 18.
Ms W says that Business F did open a stocks and shares account with Mr W named 
as the registered contact, despite his being only 16 years old. I cant explain that  it 
isnt an issue I need to investigate here where my role is to look at this individual 
complaint against Vanguard. But I dont think it would be reasonable to expect 
Vanguard to have anticipated the problems that did arise. And, given the apparent 
rules, I dont think theyve been unreasonable in saying they cant take Mr Ws JISA 
transfer.
Overall, it seems to me that the offer of £50 by Vanguard is a reasonable response to 
this complaint. 
In response, Ms W said she did not agree with me. She said the HMRC guidance on JISAs 
clearly shows that a JISA can be in a childs name and control at age 16. She referred me to 
the relevant HMRC webpage  this says a child can have a cash JISA and/or a stocks and 
shares JISA and The child can take control of the account when theyre 16, but cannot 
withdraw the money until they turn 18.
Ms W said that the guidance I referred to, with regard to age restrictions, was only about 
adult stocks and shares ISAs. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Ms W has said. I accept what she has said about the difference in 
the two sets of HMRC advice. Im grateful for this  the purpose of a provisional decision 
is to ensure both parties are given an opportunity to respond if my findings are different to 
those previously given by the service. So Ive carefully considered what Ms W has said in 
response. 
But even after considering what shes said, it still does not mean that it was unreasonable 
for Vanguard to decline to allow Mr Ws account to be transferred over to them. It is 
entitled to set out its own terms of business; and, as I mentioned above, its own terms and 
conditions say that you cant open a stocks and shares ISA if youre under 18. Even if an 
interpretation of the HMRC guidance would have (in terms of ISA rules) allowed someone 
under 18 to manage a stocks and shares JISA, it does not mean that Vanguard was 
obliged to allow this.
I also still dont think it would be reasonable to expect Vanguard to have anticipated the 
problems that did arise, when it appears to have suggested a mechanism for converting 
the Child Trust Fund with another holder into a Vanguard JISA. I dont see that Vanguard 
is liable for possible losses arising from the funds remaining in the Business F ISA. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman