DRN-3349557
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc rejected a claim she made under Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) about goods she purchased using her Sainsburys 
Bank credit card. 
What happened
In November 2017 Mrs K bought a pair of hearing aids that cost nearly £ £3,500 from a 
specialist supplier (that Ill call U). Mrs K paid U with her Sainsburys Bank credit card. She 
found the aids were uncomfortable and her hearing was no better. She had a few follow up 
appointments with U over several months but these didnt help. When she tried to contact U 
to resolve things she discovered it had ceased trading. So she got in touch with Sainsburys 
Bank in 2019 to ask for a refund under section 75 CCA. She considers the hearing aids 
werent fit for purpose. She says they didnt improve her hearing - and they were unsuitable 
for her type of hearing loss because they couldnt be adjusted. 
Sainsburys Bank looked into the matter but it didnt think there was enough evidence to 
show that there was a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. It asked Mrs K to provide 
some more evidence. Amongst other things, Mrs K supplied a letter from a third party 
audiologist and she also explained that she had surgery (after she got the hearing aids) 
which may cause side effects, including hearing issues. 
The audiologist letter said (in summary) Mrs K had attended a routine hearing appointment 
in March 2020 and the acoustics of her hearing aids needed to be adjusted - to better suit 
her hearing loss - but this wasnt possible with her current aids because they have 
customised moulds. The audiologist fitted new aids which improved Mrs Ks hearing. And the 
audiologist thought, in hindsight, the sound quality from Mrs Ks current aids could probably 
have been improved if they had been adjustable. 
Sainsburys Bank was satisfied that Mrs K had received the hearing aids specified in her 
order. It didnt think they were faulty or unfit for purpose. It accepted they no longer suited 
Mrs K but considered that was probably due to changes in her hearing  not because there 
was a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Sainsburys Bank declined the section 75 
claim but offered to pay Mrs K £50 for poor service.   
Mrs K didnt think that was fair so she referred the matter to our service. One of our 
investigators reviewed the evidence and she didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. She acknowledged the audiologist confirmed Mrs Ks hearing aids needed adjusting 
in 2020. But, given Mrs K got the aids in 2017, the investigator didnt think this suggested the 
aids must be faulty or unfit for purpose. She thought it likely Mrs Ks hearing changed since 
the aids were prescribed. And items like this wouldnt usually be expected to continue to be 
suitable in this situation. She saw nothing to indicate that Mrs K was told these aids were 
adjustable when she got them. And Mrs K confirmed that she was not promised any regular 
servicing as part of the purchase. The investigator wasnt persuaded that the goods were 
faulty or misrepresentations were made and she didnt think it was wrong of Sainsburys 
Bank to decline Mrs Ks claim.  
Mrs K didnt accept the investigators view so the complaint was referred to an ombudsman 
for a decision. In summary, Mrs K says 
she was induced into purchasing these aids with the promise of much improved 
hearing ability and continued care but the aids did not improve her hearing which 
means they do not perform as they should;
she wasnt given a choice in the type of aid and the audiologist confirmed in 2020 
that these aids were not the correct type for her sort of hearing loss; 
if goods are not capable of being adjusted to achieve what they were purchased for 
(and informed that they would achieve) this must amount to misrepresentation or a 
fault on the part of the supplier; 
paperwork U provided said she would have a review to ensure that she was getting 
the best results - which infers that the aids would be adjustable and, given hearing 
can change, she was led to believe they would be adjustable; 
U did provide follow up appointments but it was a different audiologist every time 
which was not the continuity of care she thought she would receive and U failed to 
supply the results of hearing tests as promised;
U ceased trading without notice and should not have taken on customers if it was not 
in a sound trading position; and 
she understood purchasing items like this with credit card provided additional support 
if theres a problem with the goods so Sainsburys Bank should provide a refund. 
 What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I can see that Mrs K has strong feelings about what happened and I want to assure her that I 
have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. If I dont address every single 
point thats been raised, its not because I havent thought about it, I have. But, Im going to 
concentrate in this decision on the key issues that I think are relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome overall. 
Mrs K paid for the goods and services provided using her Sainsburys Bank credit card. And 
she brings this complaint about Sainsburys Bank to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
about a claim she made under section 75 which (broadly speaking) makes a lender equally 
liable with a supplier for breach of contract and misrepresentation, in certain circumstances. 
I make my decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im required to take taking relevant law (among other things) into account and Im satisfied it 
is reasonable to consider section 75 here. Its not my role to apply the law however - only a 
court can do that. Im looking at whether Sainsburys Bank has taken appropriate steps in 
response to Mrs Ks section 75 claim. 
For me to uphold Mrs Ks complaint, Id have to be satisfied that there was a breach of 
contract or misrepresentations were made in respect of the purchase she made with her 
Sainsburys Bank credit card. Ive seen the relevant order form. Im satisfied this refers to the 
cost of aids only and the sum due is the amount that Mrs K paid on her Sainsburys Bank 
card. Mrs K has confirmed that she didnt pay for an ongoing service as part of this 
purchase. I appreciate U did offer some follow up but it looks as if Mrs K received this  she 
has confirmed that she had a number of review appointments with audiologists. Mrs K says U promised to provide her with the results of various hearing tests but these 
were never supplied. I cant be certain what Mrs K was told about this exactly. But, in any 
event, Ive seen nothing to suggest that providing this information was part of the purchase 
Mrs K made on her Sainsburys bank card. And its not something I can reasonably hold 
Sainsburys Bank responsible for.     
I accept Mrs K had problems with her hearing aids but Ive seen nothing to show that this 
was the result of an inherent issue or a misrepresentation that was made at the outset. I 
think hearing aids may allow different settings and adjustments - depending on a number of 
factors including the nature of an individual hearing loss as well as the cost of the aids 
themselves. And such aids are designed to be individual to the user  which is why they 
generally need fitting after purchase and often some kind of further adjustment. 
Looking at the time that had passed since Mrs Ks aids were first prescribed and the 
evidence provided, I think its more likely than not her hearing needs will have changed. I 
think Mrs K probably acknowledges that but the crux of her complaint is she feels let down 
because the aids she bought in 2017 cant be adjusted in the way the audiologist said was 
required in March 2020. 
I have considered what the third party audiologist said carefully. Im satisfied she found the 
aids were moulded for Mrs Ks ears and contained in a sealed unit which meant they cant 
be adjusted in the way that was needed. I note the audiologist suggests it would have been 
preferable if the aids had been designed differently - but she acknowledges this is desirable 
with the benefit of hindsight. She doesnt say theres something inherently wrong with the 
aids - or suggest that they were unsuitable for Mrs K when she first got them.  
I realise Mrs K feels it was implied that her hearing aids would allow such adjustment. But. I 
dont think items like hearing aids are usually supplied on the basis they will be sufficiently 
adaptable to continue to be suitable notwithstanding the passage of time and changes in an 
individuals hearing. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs K was led to believe in 2017 
that these particular aids would be adjustable in the way the audiologist said was necessary 
in 2020. 
For the reasons set out, Im not persuaded that these hearing aids were faulty or unfit for 
purpose when they were originally supplied. I cant fairly find that theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. And Im unable to reasonably require Sainsburys Bank to 
provide a refund or do anything else. 
I realise this decision will probably come as a disappointment to Mrs K and Im sorry about 
that. But, for the reasons Ive given, I am not satisfied there are sufficient fair and reasonable 
grounds to uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mrs K to contact Sainsburys Bank direct if she 
wants to accept the offer to pay £50 for poor service (if thats still open).  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman