DRN-4209946
The complaint
Mrs E, Mr E1 and Mr E2 complain about Aviva Insurance Limited declining Mr E2s claim for 
cover under their legal expenses insurance policy and about their handling of Mr E2s data.
Since this complaint concerns Mr E2, Ill mostly refer to him in my decision to make things 
simpler.
Where I refer to Aviva, I include their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr E2 benefited from legal expenses insurance (LEI) cover under a policy taken out by    
Mrs E and Mr E1 in September 2018.
In mid-2021 he made a claim on the policy for cover to pursue legal action against an 
educational body (the EB) for, amongst other things, alleged bullying and breaches of 
contract. Aviva declined his claim on grounds that the series of events giving rise to his claim 
had started before the policy began, so it fell within an exclusion. Mr E2 disagreed. And 
when Aviva didnt uphold his complaint, he brought it to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The ombudsman who considered that complaint decided in April 2022 that Aviva hadnt 
unfairly declined his claim.
In early May 2022 Mr E2 asked Aviva to erase his personal data. Shortly afterwards he 
made a further claim (the current claim) on the LEI policy for cover to take legal action 
against the EB.
Aviva declined the current claim. They said, in summary, it was a continuation of the 
previous claim; it related to EBs alleged breach of contract in failing to deliver his course 
appropriately; since his dispute with EB predated the inception of the policy, his claim was 
excluded under the policy; and the Financial Ombudsman Service had decided that 
previously.
Mr E2 didnt agree. He said, in summary, the 20 or so alleged breaches of contract he 
wanted to pursue against the EB had happened during the period the LEI covered since they 
began in December 2018. They were new and distinct from the bullying claims hed raised 
before and which the previous ombudsman had considered.
Aviva refused to erase Mr E2s data. They said, in summary, the right to be forgotten under 
the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) wasnt absolute; they had legitimate 
reasons for keeping his data; their policy allowed them to keep it for seven years following 
the expiry of his insurance contract; their decision to decline his request to erase his data 
was in line with their privacy policy, which was available on their website; the claim Mr E2 
was making was a continuation of the previous one; and Mr E2 had given his consent to use 
of his data by signing the declarations on claim forms hed previously submitted.
Mr E2 disputed the bases on which Aviva said they could retain his personal data. He said, 
in summary, theyd used it in a way he hadnt anticipated or authorised. He hadnt consented 
to Aviva using information relating to his previous claim to decide the outcome of the current 
claim.
When Aviva didnt uphold Mr E2s complaints, he brought them to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
Our investigator thought Aviva had declined Mr E2s claim for cover to pursue the EB fairly. 
She said it was essentially the same claim hed made before; the issues hed raised were 
part of an ongoing series of related issues and concerns about the EBs treatment of Mr E2 
and their alleged breaches of contract since February 2018 onwards; and Aviva were right to 
say the exclusion applied.
Our investigator said there was no evidence Aviva had misused any of Mr E2s data; theyd 
explained why theyd kept it for longer than the life of his previous claim, which was in line 
with the terms and conditions he and Aviva had agreed to.
Mr E2 didnt agree with our investigators views. So, his complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr E2s strength of feeling about his complaint. And Im sorry to hear the experience 
he had at the EB didnt meet his expectations. I wont mention here everything he and Aviva 
have told us about his LEI claim or address things in the level of detail Mr E2s provided. Ill 
focus on the things I consider key. Thats because we provide an informal service. No 
discourtesy is intended. Id like to reassure Mr E2 and Aviva that Ive considered everything 
theyve said in coming to my conclusions.
Ive come to the same outcome as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. But since 
Mr E2s raised some additional points which Ive addressed here, Im issuing a provisional 
decision to give the parties time to respond before I issue my final decision.
Mr E2s complaint is essentially in two parts. The first relates to Aviva declining his claim for 
LEI cover in 2022, (the LEI claim). The second relates to Avivas alleged misuse of Mr E2s 
personal data and their refusal to delete it, (the data complaint). Ill consider each part in 
turn.
The LEI claim
We expect insurers to consider claims fairly and promptly and not to decline claims 
unreasonably. The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr E2 had LEI cover as part of the home insurance policy taken out by Mrs E and Mr E1. 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the policy, cover was provided for, amongst other 
things, Consumer Disputes defined as:
A dispute regarding an agreement for the sale, purchase or hire of goods or services 
that are not for your business use.
Cover was excluded for, amongst other things,d. Claims where the initial dispute or series of incidents leading to a claim on this 
policy happen before this cover starts or after it comes to an end as shown on your 
schedule. You can only make one claim for all disputes arising from the same 
incident.
Aviva said that the many breaches of contract Mr E2 alleged the EB were responsible for 
were a continuation of his previous complaint and formed part of a series of events linked by 
one cause, namely the EBs alleged failure to deliver the contract relating to his course 
appropriately. They were all viewed as one claim under the policy. And the claim was 
excluded since the series of incidents began before the policy started.
Mr E2s raised a number of points as his complaints progressed, which Ill summarise:
The contract breaches he now wishes to pursue against the EB are independent of 
the issues he raised in the previous claim.
Just because a member of staff at the EB bullied him a few months before the policy 
began, doesnt mean he ought to have known the EB would later breach its contract 
with him in relation to teaching issues.
The LEI policy doesnt list bullying as something that can be claimed for. Since he 
cant claim for it, Aviva shouldnt be able to take it into account when considering the 
exclusion for pre-existing disputes.
The policy terms and conditions arent balanced as they should be to comply with 
consumer rights law. The exclusion means almost any claim could be declined if the 
policyholder had had a dispute with Aviva, even if unrelated. And in his case, it 
prevents him from claiming several thousand pounds in damages and fee refunds 
because of the bullying incident that happened several months before the contract 
breaches began. That isnt proportional.
I cant decide whether Aviva has breached consumer protection law. Only a court can decide 
that. But I can consider whether Aviva have treated Mr E2 fairly and I bear the law in mind in 
reaching my conclusions.
LEI is designed to cover fortuitous events, not things that are likely to happen or which a 
policyholder knows about before a policy begins. Its common for LEI policies to exclude 
claims where there is a related pre-existing dispute, as here. We dont generally consider 
that to be unfair - or disproportionate, as Mr E2 suggests. Avivas decision not to cover       
Mr E2s claim doesnt stop him from taking legal action against the EB, although hed need 
to find alternative funding.
As Mr E2 notes, the policy doesnt specifically refer to bullying as something that can be 
claimed for. I wouldnt expect it to. The policy is more widely drafted to provide cover to 
pursue claims for breach of a contract for services. Even if it were right to say the incidents 
that happened before the policy began were solely about bullying, the absence of a direct 
reference to claims for bullying in the policy doesnt mean Aviva cant take them into account 
in considering cover. But I can consider whether Aviva applied the exclusion fairly.
I note the distinctions Mr E2 draws between his previous claim and the current claim. He 
says his previous claim, whilst involving alleged breaches of contract, was based on bullying 
by certain individuals at certain locations. And he says that since, for example, the current 
claim relates to incidents that began in December 2018, the EB personnel and locations are 
different, and the allegations relate, broadly, to how teaching was delivered, not historic 
bullying, the claims are unrelated.Mr E2s acknowledged he complained about delivery of a lesson and about group work in 
2018 before the policy began. Hes said that was background information to his bullying 
complaint since theyd led to the alleged poor staff behaviour towards him. But I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to think those issues and his concerns about treatment of him by staff 
members were evidence of an ongoing dispute between Mr E2 and the EB.
Despite the differences Mr E2 has referred to, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to consider 
the current claim was related to the previous claim  or, in their words, a continuation of the 
previous claim. In the end, all Mr E2s concerns are about the way in which the EB has 
delivered his course.
Even if the current claim was considered on its own, the result is the same. The current 
claim relates to incidents which began in December 2018. Aviva could reasonably take into 
account Mr E2s issues with the EB leading up to that date, including the allegations he 
made before the policy started, in deciding if the exclusion applied. It was reasonable for 
Aviva to think there was a pre-existing dispute relating to the EBs delivery of his course and 
a subsequent series of events that ultimately led to the claim.
Bearing everything in mind, I think Aviva acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and came to a fair and reasonable decision to decline the current claim on grounds 
the exclusion applied.
The data complaint
Aviva said the right to be forgotten wasnt absolute and they had the right to retain data for 
handling future claims and dealing with complaints. Mr E2 disputed the grounds Aviva gave 
for refusing to delete his data were valid. He felt theyd breached Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) rules; the terms and conditions about handling data hadnt 
been made clear; there should be stricter provision for his sensitive personal information; 
and Avivas reasons for processing data had changed, which suggested theyd required his 
consent  which he hadnt given  or theyd misused his data.
If Mr E2 wants a ruling on how Aviva have handled his personal data hed need to take that 
up with the ICO. I cant determine whether Aviva breached GDPR or data protection 
legislation. But I can consider whether they acted fairly and reasonably in handling his 
information - since that was part of their consideration of his claim.
From what I understand, Mr E2s main complaint is that he didnt consent to, and there was 
no legal basis for, Aviva using information in relation to the earlier claim to consider the 
current complaint. Hes concerned too that the information he provided was sensitive and 
would be accessed widely within Aviva.
Mr E2 hasnt provided any evidence to support his concerns that his sensitive personal 
information has been shared too widely or that hes suffered harm. So, I wont comment 
further on that.Mr E2 signed declarations relating to his claims for cover to pursue the EB. They set out 
clearly that Mr E2s data would be used in accordance with their privacy statement and 
provided a link to access it. The privacy statement was easy to locate using the link. Given 
Mr E2s concerns about how his data would be used, Id expect him to have taken a look. If 
he had, he would have seen that Aviva would use the information they held about him for the 
purpose of, amongst other things, handling claims and any other related purposes. It was 
reasonable for Aviva to think Mr E2 consented to them using his information in line with their 
privacy policy, given hed signed the declarations. I dont think consent was limited to using 
the information for the claim to which the individual declarations related, as Mr E2 believes, 
given its broad wording.
Arguably, Mr E2s request to delete his data was a withdrawal of his consent. But, bearing in 
mind GDPR allows insurers to use information for legitimate business reasons, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Aviva to use information about Mr E2s previous claims in considering 
the current claim. The information was directly relevant to whether the policy responded.
Even if Im wrong about that, or if Aviva had deleted Mr E2s data when they asked him to, I 
dont think it would have made a difference to the outcome of the current claim. Thats 
because Mr E2 would have had to provide the historical information about his dispute with 
the EB when making it. Aviva would have needed the information to decide if the claim was 
related to the earlier claim. If he hadnt provided it, Mr E2 would have risked being in breach 
of the terms and conditions of the LEI policy relating to fraudulent claims. So, Aviva would 
have been aware of the background and likely declined the claim on the basis of the 
exclusion in any event.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand it will be disappointing, I dont intend to 
uphold Mrs E, Mr E1 and Mr E2s complaints.
Developments
Aviva had no comments to make on my provisional decision.
Mr E2 made several points in response to my conclusions about the LEI claim, which Ill 
summarise:
He says the complaints he raised with the EB before the policy started were about 
staff behaviour towards him rather than delivery of the course. Although he 
mentioned poor service in relation to one of the complaints, that was to show that the 
reaction of a staff member he reported it to was unreasonable. His concern was 
about the staff member and no breach of contract occurred. 
Mr E2 isnt claiming for that incident now. There was no ongoing dispute as defined 
in a dictionary. It didnt lead to the current claim as the policy wording requires and 
its not reasonable to say it did. For example, his complaint was never made formal, it 
would be out of time under the EBs complaints process, it formed a minor part of   
Mr E2s overall experience at the EB and it happened several years ago. 
According to Mr E2s research, he wouldnt be able to make a legal claim for poor 
customer service/rude behaviour alone. Since the earlier incidence of poor service 
was minor and unlikely to have resulted in a claim for compensation, its not 
reasonable to consider it to be part of an ongoing dispute.
Neither Aviva nor the Financial Ombudsman Service has been specific in addressing 
the insurance contract and timelines. We havent explained how the pre-insurance contract incidents mean the exclusion applies or how they and the incidents he now 
wishes to pursue against the EB are linked in time. 
Mr E2 hasnt commented on my conclusions regarding the data complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mr E2s made any substantively new points about the LEI claim that I havent 
already considered. I note he feels the detailed points hes made should be addressed in full. 
Id like to reassure him Ive thought carefully about everything hes said in coming to my 
decision. But, as Ive said, were an informal service. For that reason, I dont set out 
everything he and Aviva have told us in the level of detail theyve provided.
Mr E2 says he included information about the pre-policy events as background to his LEI 
claim. He considers them to be minor and feels he wouldnt be able to pursue a successful 
claim in relation to them separately. I wont comment on the grounds on which any legal 
claims against the EB could be made since thats not my role. But I dont think the nature of 
the complaints Mr E2 made against the EB or the basis of any legal claims he might have 
against them matters. The policy provided broad cover for disputes regarding an agreement 
for services. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to look at Mr E2s overall relationship with the 
EB in relation to his course in considering if the exclusion applied. 
Even if Im wrong about that, the emails Mr E2 exchanged with the EB in around February 
2018 show he complained then about teaching issues and delivery of his course. And emails 
exchanged in around April 2018 record his concerns about the EBs failure to act twice on 
issues hed raised about group work. The concerns he had about poor treatment from EB 
staff members may have followed on from the complaints he made about delivery of the 
course itself. And whilst Mr E2 may not have formally complained about both these issues, 
they were covered in the EB complaints process.
As Ive explained, LEI is designed to cover fortuitous events, not things that are likely to 
happen or which a policyholder knows about before a policy begins. Since Mr E2 had issues 
with the delivery of his course before the insurance policy started, the events are relevant to 
deciding if the exclusion applies. 
I note Mr E2s point that the events in early 2018 didnt lead to the claim. Its the claim on 
the policy thats relevant here, not the claim against the EB.  His dispute with the EB began 
before the policy started as Ive noted. And it continued in the months that followed. Mr E2s 
previous claim covered bullying and breach of contract/service failings. And the previous 
ombudsman decided the exclusion applied to that claim. 
Mr E2 says his current claim is restricted to cover to pursue the EB in relation to later 
contractual issues. But the issues in the previous claim and the current claim overlap in 
some regards. And Im satisfied the issues Mr E2 now wishes to pursue are sufficiently 
linked to the pre-policy events for Aviva to have reasonably excluded the claim - the parties 
involved are the same, there are similar issues, and the timescale is short enough. 
I appreciate the difficult time Mr E2 had whilst attending the EB and Im sorry to hear of the 
impact it had on his health. But, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded to change 
my view. Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr E2 will be disappointed, I think it 
was fair and reasonable for Aviva to decline the LEI claim based on the exclusion. Since neither party has made any further comments on the data complaint, I see no reason 
to change my mind about the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
In all the circumstances, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E, Mr E1 and 
Mr E2 to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman