DRN-3237181
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Close Brothers Limited terminated the conditional sale agreement he 
had with them. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr C was supplied with a used van through a conditional sale agreement 
with Close Brothers. He paid a deposit of £2,039.80, and the agreement was for £11,194, 
with 48 monthly payments of £316.50. 
Mr C, a self-employed builder, maintained payments on the agreement until July 2020. But 
the payments for August and September 2020 were missed. Close Brothers were unable to 
contact Mr C and, on 28 September 2020, they sent him a Notice of Default of Sums in 
Arrears. And, on 13 October 2020, they terminated the agreement.
Mr C contacted Close Brothers on 19 October 2020. He explained hed been working away 
and hadnt received their letters. He offered to repay the missing payments and continue 
with the agreement. But Close Brothers refused and said the only way Mr C could now keep 
the van was to clear the outstanding balance if full. And, if he didnt do this, the van would be 
repossessed.
Mr C complained to Close Brothers, but they said theyd followed their process correctly. 
And they wouldnt change their view on the termination and repossession. Mr C was 
unhappy with this response, and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Close Brothers allowed Mr C to make a payment of £5,000 on 2 November 2021, to bring 
the account up to date. And, as I understand it, Mr C is still in possession of the van.
Our investigator said that, even though he hadnt told Close Brothers about this, Mr Cs 
income had been affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. And he thought that 
Close Brothers should take into consideration the temporary guidance issued by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) about people in Mr Cs position.
The investigator thought that, while Mr C wouldnt have received the letters Close Brothers 
sent him, because he was working away, he wouldve received the voicemails, and most 
probably the emails. So, he thought that Close Brothers had made reasonable attempts to 
contact Mr C. But, once Mr C had contacted them, the investigator thought Close Brothers 
shouldve followed the FCA guidance and only taken repossession action as a last resort.
The investigator said that, under the guidelines from the Information Commissioners Office, 
a default should generally be registered when an account is between three and six months in 
arrears. And Close Brothers registered a default when Mr C was only two payments behind. 
So, he thought that, when Mr C called Close Brothers on 19 October 2020, they shouldve 
treated him more sympathetically, accepted the payments he was trying to make to clear the 
arrears, and allowed the agreement to continue as normal.
However, by not doing this, and starting repossession proceedings, Close Brothers caused 
Mr C a great deal of distress. So, the investigator said that Close Brothers should remove all 
the adverse information from Mr Cs file; reinstate the agreement, allowing Mr C to keep the 
van and return to making the agreed monthly payments; and pay Mr C £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience hed been caused. 
Mr C agreed with the investigator but said that the charges thatd been added relating to the 
repossession proceedings should also be removed from his account.
Close Brothers didnt agree with the investigator. They said theyd made reasonable 
attempts to contact Mr C and, when he didnt respond, they thought theyd acted reasonably 
by terminating the agreement. But they didnt think the FCA guidelines applied, as Mr C 
hadnt told them his income had been affected by Covid-19 and because he was able to 
clear the arrears in full in October 2019.
And Close Brothers didnt agree that the termination should be reversed because it is quite 
common for customers to contact us after termination and offer to pay [but] this doesnt 
necessarily mean that the customer is able to make ongoing payments or that keeping the 
vehicle is the best option financially and we have to take these factors into account  the 
repossession of the vehicle is often the best option for the customer financially and prevents 
further debt being incurred.
Because neither party agreed with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with a van under a conditional sale 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. Mr C missed the payments for August and 
September 2020 and didnt respond to the emails and voicemails hed received from Close 
Brothers. As a result, Close Brothers registered a default and terminated the agreement. 
And it wasnt until after the termination had happened that Mr C contacted them to discuss 
the situation.
Mr C was a self-employed builder and, during the Government imposed lockdown in early 
2020, he wasnt legally able to attend peoples homes to work. And building sites were also 
shut down. In addition, the lockdown also affected manufacturing, which led to a shortage of 
building materials. So, I think its fair to say that Mr Cs income was affected by Covid-19.However, Mr C didnt tell Close Brothers about this. If he had done, under the FCA guidance 
in place, he wouldve been able to ask for a payment deferral. And, where a payment 
deferral was in place, then Close Brothers wouldnt have registered any arrears with the 
credit reference agencies. But, as he didnt do this, Im satisfied that Close Brothers acted 
reasonably by reporting the missed payments for August and September 2020 to the credit 
reference agencies  they have an obligation to ensure that the conduct of Mr Cs account 
was accurately reported and they did this.
Close Brothers have said that, when Mr C contacted them in October 2020, he was able to 
repay the missed payments, and maintain payments going forward. And this meant his 
income wasnt being affected by Covid-19, so the FCA guidance didnt apply. Im in 
agreement that, as this was the case, Mr Cs income was no longer being affected by Covid-
19. So, the guidance relating to payment deferrals certainly didnt apply.
But, the general FCA guidance, in place before Covid-19, said that firms should consider 
customers in arrears, or with defaults, with forbearance and due consideration. The 
temporary guidance relating to Covid-19 said, Where the customer has the right to use the 
vehicle, firms should not take steps to terminate the agreement or seek to repossess the 
vehicle (whether by way of any requisite legal proceedings or otherwise) where the customer 
is experiencing temporary payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to 
coronavirus and needs use of the vehicle.
The FCA issued further guidance which explained that before 31 January 2021, a firm 
should not, absent exceptional circumstances, terminate a regulated agreement or 
repossess goods or vehicles under the agreement that the customer needs. It also 
explained that firms are not prevented from taking action to repossess as a last resort 
where the customer has failed to engage with the firm despite the firm having made all 
reasonable attempts to engage with the customer.
Based on this guidance, Im satisfied that Close Brothers acted reasonably by terminating 
the agreement when they did, as Mr C hadnt responded to any of their attempts to contact 
him. However, once Mr C spoke to Close Brothers, they were aware of his situation. And, 
under the guidance in place, I dont think they shouldve continued with the repossession.
Whats more, Close Brothers have said it is quite common for customers to contact us after 
termination and offer to pay [but] this doesnt necessarily mean that the customer is able to 
make ongoing payments or that keeping the vehicle is the best option financially and we 
have to take these factors into account. And, by accepting that Mr C was able to clear the 
arrears and maintain ongoing payments (meaning that his income was no longer affected by 
Covid-19), this also means that he was in a position where continuing to keep and pay for 
the van wasnt putting him in a worse financial position, or one where his debt would 
increase.
So, based on what Close Brothers have said, Im satisfied that this was a situation where it 
would be reasonable to overturn the termination, and reinstate the agreement. And Close 
Brothers havent shown me any evidence of any reasonable checks they did at this stage 
which indicated that this wasnt the case. As such, Im satisfied that Close Brothers acted 
unreasonably in October 2020 by not accepting the payment Mr C offered, by not reinstating 
the agreement, and by continuing with the repossession. And I think they should do 
something to put things right.Putting things right
Close Brothers have recorded missed payments on Mr Cs credit file (even though he 
offered to make payments and they refused to accept them) as well as a default. As 
explained by the investigator, the guidelines issued by the Information Commissioners Office 
say that a customer should usually be between three and six months in arrears when a 
default is registered. But Close Brothers issued the default after just two months arrears.
Given this, I think that Close Brothers should remove the default from Mr Cs credit file. They 
should also remove any arrears registered after October 2020, as this is when Mr C offered 
to clear the arrears and recommence payments. However, Mr C missed the payments for 
August and September 2020, through no fault of Close Brothers. So, these should still be 
recorded as arrears.
In addition to this, Close Brothers should remove any fees or charges applied to Mr Cs 
account on or after 19 October 2020. Because, had Close Brothers acted reasonably when 
Mr C called them, the arrears wouldve been cleared, and no charges applied. However, any 
fees or charges applied for the missed payments in August and September 2020 are valid 
and should remain.
Ive also looked at what happened after October 2020, specifically with the repossession 
process. Close Brothers instructed an agent to act for them in this. And, as the agent was 
acting for Close Brothers, Im holding them responsible for the actions of the agent.
Ive listed to calls Mr C (and his wife) had with the agent, the voicemails the agent left, and 
the messages the agent sent Mr C through a messaging app. Close Brothers had agreed to 
put the matter on hold while the complaint was being dealt with, but the agent seemingly 
didnt agree with this course of action.
On at least two occasions the agent sent Mr C threatening messages, one saying that Mr C 
was committing fraud, and another saying, the police are desperate to arrest you. Whilst 
the agent followed these up with a message saying that the original message was sent to Mr 
C in error, Mr C was still impacted by those threats. And Id expect the collections agent to 
be able to send messages to the right client, and not send multiple threats in error.
In calls to Mr C the agent also said that he was going to report the van as being stolen, that 
Mr C continuing to keep using this was theft (even though he was prepared to clear the 
arrears and continue to make payments), and that once terminated, an agreement can never 
be reinstated.
In other calls the agent told Mr C that we dont have the knowledge to understand the issue, 
so we wont be able to help him. And that, by contacting other people to help him with his 
complaint has only meant that the agent had sped things up and would be dealing with 
getting the van back as a matter of urgency.
I consider the actions of the agent to be completely unacceptable. By telling Mr C that other 
people cant help him, and that by asking for assistance with his complaint will only mean 
that the repossession will happen faster, is essentially trying to stop Mr C from exercising his 
right to have his complaint looked at independently.
Given this, the fact that Mr C regularly had visits from bailiffs, and that what was recorded on 
his credit file stopped him getting other Covid-19 assistance i.e. bounce back loans, Im 
satisfied that Close Brothers should also pay Mr C compensation for the impact of their 
actions.Because I didnt agree with the investigator about either removing all the missed payments, 
or about not removing any fees, Ive put these points to both parties. And asked for their 
comments. Neither Mr C nor Close Brothers commented on these changes.
So, Close Brothers should:
reinstate the agreement, and allow Mr C to recommence payments;
remove all adverse entries from Mr Cs credit file from October 2020 to the date of 
reinstatement;
remove all fees and charges applied to Mr Cs account after 19 October 2020; and
pay Mr C an additional £250 for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and Close Brothers Limited must follow 
my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman