The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that part of their claim for accidental damage was declined. The 
claim was made under their home insurance policy with Avantia Insurance Limited. In 
particular, Mr and Mrs S have said they werent made aware of the restrictions on the cover 
they were purchasing, and they think they should have been. 
Avantia as the retail insurer (a broker that creates a branded insurance policy and arranges 
for an insurer to underwrite it) is responsible for the concerns Mr and Mrs S have about the 
sale of the insurance policy. The claim decision is, however, the responsibility of a different 
financial business, which I will refer to as the underwriter. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs S arranged an insurance policy for their home and possessions. 
They have told us they took the additional accidental damage option because they had a 
small child and realised how important such cover could be for them. They have said the 
exclusion the underwriter applied to reject part of their claim was not mentioned to them.
On 8 October 2018 Avantia sent Mr and Mrs S their insurance documentation. In that 
documentation was a web address they could use to access the policy terms and conditions. 
There was no mention of the exclusion later used to partially decline the claim in any of the 
documentation supplied at the time.
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs S told us that, when briefly left unattended, their young child drew 
on their sofa and carpet with permanent marker pen and biro. They made a claim under the 
accidental damage cover provided on their policy.
The underwriter considered the claim. It accepted the claim for the carpet, but not the sofa. It 
said there was an exclusion that applied to the whole policy which excluded cosmetic 
damage where that damage didnt affect the functionality of the item. The damage to the 
sofa was only cosmetic and it still functioned, so the claim for it was excluded from cover. 
The carpet was considered a decorative item and so its entire function was decorative  as 
such, the cosmetic damage meant it could no longer fulfil its function  so the claim for it was 
accepted.  The policy limit for carpets and rugs of £750, less the policy excess, was applied 
to the claim. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy about AXAs claim decision in respect to the sofa. They said 
that when they asked questions at the time of application it was confirmed that it was like for 
like cover. They also said they hadnt been told about any exclusion. In addition, they 
considered describing a carpet as being a decorative item as ridiculous. 
Mr and Mrs S concerns were referred to Avantia and it issued a response to the complaint.  
Avantia said it was right that part of the claim had been declined as the policy doesnt cover 
pure cosmetic damage. This was documented in the policy terms and conditions and so 
DRN-2411214Mr and Mrs S should have been aware of the limitation on the policy, as Avantia expects its 
policyholders to read the terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with Avantias response and asked this service to consider their 
complaint. The complaint was looked at by two of our investigators and substantially upheld, 
although there were some slight differences in the details of the redress recommended. 
Avantia said it would be unreasonable to expect every level of cover to be highlighted to a 
customer prior to the purchase of an insurance policy. Instead, Avantia ensures there is 
clear signposting to significant exclusions and to where a customer can find the full policy 
wording. Avantia asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
As the final investigators view of the complaint mentioned there would be a £750 limit on the 
claim, Mr and Mrs S were also unhappy. They also asked that the complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman for consideration. 
The policy terms and conditions include some general exclusions, which limit the cover 
provided by the policy, including one for Pure Cosmetic Damage . The same document 
defines cosmetic damage as damage that solely affects the appearance but not the 
functionality of an insured item (e.g. chipping, denting or scratching) except where the item is 
used purely for decorative purposes (e.g. carpets) where cosmetic damage is limited to £750 
per item, per claim.
The accidental damage cover sets out various things that are not covered, including 
introducing some policy limits:
Any amount over £100 per claim for damage to Electronic Gadget screens;
Any amount over £750 per claim for damage to carpets and rugs;
Any amount over £1,000 in total per claim for brittles (e.g. glass or china);
Any amount over £1,000 per claim for damage outside the Home.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 November 2020 in which I explained my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
Mr and Mrs S have raised concerns about the service they received during their claim. As it 
was the underwriter that dealt with the claim, I will not comment on those issued in this 
decision. 
When an insurer issues policy documentation it cant highlight all the policy terms and 
conditions and so a consumer will be given details of the key facts about the policy. If they 
want or need to know more, they are expected to ask questions or refer to the policy terms 
and conditions. It is also quite common practice for insurers not to provide a hard copy of the 
terms and conditions, but rather give a policyholder instruction about where to find that 
document on the internet. 
The reason a consumer is provided with a key facts document is because the industry 
understands most consumers wont read all the terms and conditions of the policy they are 
taking out. Indeed, although policy documentation has improved over time, often even if they 
did, a layperson might find it difficult to understand some of the more complex terms or 
understand the potential implications of them. Along with highlighting the key facts about a 
policy at the time of the sale, an insurer is also expected to highlight any unusual or onerous 
terms.I have considered the policy exclusion and definition that were used to reject Mr and Mrs S 
claim in part. Having done so, I am satisfied the cosmetic damage exclusion has the 
potential to significantly reduce the cover provided by the insurance policy. It is also an 
unusual term in such an insurance policy. As such, I am satisfied it should have been 
highlighted to Mr and Mrs S when they took the policy out. It was not, and that can only be 
considered an omission on Avantias part. 
Where an insurer has made an error or omission, we need to consider what position a 
consumer would be in, but for that error. In this case, that means I must consider what I think 
Mr and Mrs S would most likely have done had they been made aware of the limitation on 
the policy cover.
Mr and Mrs S have said all along they took out the additional option of accidental damage 
cover because they had a young child. The implication being that they considered spills, 
stains and breakages would be more likely to happen if there was a child in the home. In this 
context it seems entirely plausible that having this cover was important to Mr and Mrs S. So, 
if they had been told about the cosmetic damage exclusion, I think they would likely have 
opted to look for alternative cover that didnt include that exclusion. In other words, Avantias 
error has resulted in Mr and Mrs S likely suffering a financial loss.
As such, I consider Avantia should step into the shoes of the underwriter. It should consider 
the claim for the damaged sofa without reliance on the cosmetic damage exclusion 
(including any limit it imposes on claims) and in line with the remaining policy terms and 
conditions. Given the time that has passed since the claim was made and the fact that 
Mr and Mrs S have replaced the sofa, Avantia might want to ask the underwriter, which 
inspected the damage, to complete this activity for it. 
It has been suggested that Avantia might be able to apply a further excess to any settlement 
it makes. I have considered this and, as both the sofa and the carpet are items of contents, 
only one excess would be applicable. As the underwriter has already deducted an excess 
when it settled the claim for the carpet, Avantia shouldnt deduct a further excess when it 
settles this matter.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision and no further evidence or comment was 
made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of any further evidence or comment from the parties, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions.
Putting things right
Avantia should step into the shoes of the underwriter. It should consider the claim for the 
damaged sofa without reliance on the cosmetic damage exclusion (including any limit it 
imposes on claims) and in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
As both the sofa and the carpet are items of contents, only one excess would be applicable. 
As the underwriter has already deducted an excess when it settled the claim for the carpet, 
Avantia shouldnt deduct a further excess when it settles this matter.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Avantia Insurance Limited to step into 
the shoes of the underwriter and consider further the claim for Mr and Mrs S sofa without 
the application of the cosmetic damage exclusion (as detailed above).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman