DRN-2473905
The complaint
Mr S complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) has not treated him fairly. In 
particular he says it did not process his instructions to move his Self Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) into drawdown and release funds promptly. 
As a result, a withdrawal Mr S wanted to make from his drawdown pension was not received 
until 6 April 2020. As the payment was not received in the 2019/20 tax year Mr S says this 
will have significant tax implications for him if he goes ahead with another planned 
withdrawal from his drawdown pension in the 2020/21 tax year.
What happened
Mr S held a SIPP with Aegon. Mr S says that, in March 2020, having taken advice from his 
accountant he decided to take the maximum tax free cash he was entitled to from his SIPP 
followed by a withdrawal of a further £37,500. He wanted these transactions to take place 
within the 2019/20 tax year. He says he then intended to make a further withdrawal in the 
2020/21 tax year.
Mr Ss request to take the tax free cash he was entitled to triggered a Benefit Crystallization 
Event (BCE). The BCE test is usually carried out each time benefits are taken from a 
pension scheme to make sure a tax charge is applied if the lifetime allowance is exceeded. 
This test is an HMRC requirement.
Once the test had been carried out Aegon paid the tax free cash (TFC) lump sum Mr S had 
requested. After the TFC was paid the remaining 75% of his pension pot was transferred into 
a drawdown pension. 
The withdrawal Mr S had requested of £37,500 could only be processed once the drawdown 
pension wrapper had been set up. It wasnt possible for him to make this withdrawal until the 
funds from his SIPP (minus the TFC) had been transferred to the drawdown pension. 
Aegon received Mr Ss request to crystallise his SIPP on 17 March 2020. It requested some 
additional information via Mr Ss IFA which was provided promptly. On 26 March 2020 it 
notified Mr Ss IFA that the request had been processed and the TFC would be paid to 
Mr Ss bank account.
On 27 March 2020 Mr Ss IFA, acting on Mr Ss instructions, requested a £37,500 withdrawal 
from his drawdown account. As the request wasnt received until after noon on Friday 27 
March 2020 the instruction to sell down fund holdings was transacted on Monday 30 March. 
Aegon then needed to wait for receipt of the cleared funds before it could make the payment 
to Mr S. 
The funds were sold on Monday 30 March. The money from the sale did not fully clear until 
Monday 6 April.  Once Aegon received the cleared funds it paid the withdrawal Mr S had 
requested that same day, 6 April 2020.
Mr S complained to Aegon. He said he felt it had not treated him fairly and had delayed the 
payment of his withdrawal. As a result of the delay he said he had received the payment in 
the 2020/21 tax year.
Aegon didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It explained that under its service level agreement it 
had ten working days to carry out the BCE. It noted that it had received Mr Ss request to 
crystallise his SIPP on 17 March 2020. It said the tax free cash was paid to Mr S on 26 
March 2020 and the remaining funds were moved into a drawdown pension.
On 27 March it received Mr Ss request to withdrawal £37,500. It said the instruction was 
given to the fund managers to sell down the necessary funds and the sale was transacted at 
the next dealing point. It explained that, depending on the fund manager, it could take up to 
six days for the funds to settle into cash. And it noted that it couldnt control how long it takes 
for a fund to settle. Once the funds had settled it said it had two working days to make the 
payment to Mr S by faster payment. 
It said that although it had been keeping an eye on this case to see if it could make the 
payment Mr S had requested before the end of the 2019/20 tax year, the funds had not fully 
settled in time for it to make the payment on Friday 3 April 2020, the last working day of the 
2019/20 tax year.
In view of this it said it didnt agree that it had caused a delay in paying the funds to Mr S.
 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with Aegons response and referred his complaint to this service. He 
said: 
From commencement of these proceedings I made it explicitly clear that it was imperative 
that with advice received from my Accountant that these transactions must be carried out in 
three tranches namely. Tranche I - liquidation of my entitled and allowable Tax Free Lump 
Sum, immediately thereafter. Tranche 2 specifically, liquidation of £37,500 to enable a 
maximum personal taxation of 20% within the then current financial tax year to 05/04/2020 
and in any event, this could not be encashed later than this date and then immediately 
thereafter, Tranche 3 to be encashed in the next tax year commencing 06/04/2020. It was 
under these express terms that I gave my instruction to proceed.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint. Having done so she said she didnt think 
Aegon had acted incorrectly or delayed paying the requested withdrawals to Mr S. 
She said she felt Aegon had promptly carried out the BCE. She noted it received the 
instruction on 17 March 2020 and started work on it within 24 hours. She noted that Aegons 
service standard was up to 10 working days for the BCE to be completed. However, it 
completed the sell down to pay the TFC Mr S had requested and moved the remaining funds 
to a drawdown pension by 26 March 2020, seven working days after the initial instruction 
was received. 
On 27 March 2020 Mr Ss IFA then requested a £37,500 withdrawal from Mr Ss drawdown 
pension. She noted that Mr Ss IFA had asked whether the payment would be made before 
the end of the 2019/20 tax year. Aegon replied that it may be tight getting the income paid 
out this tax year.  And it explained that the sell down could take up to five working days to 
process. 
In view of this our investigator said she felt Aegon had made clear to Mr Ss IFA that there 
was no guarantee that the payment would be made in the 2019/20 tax year. 
She also noted that Aegons terms and conditions set out that for drawdown payments;the instruction must be received and accepted at least 10 business days before the payment 
date. 
After the withdrawal request was received, on 27 March 2020, the sell down was started on 
Monday 30 March 2020. She noted that the sale of the investments was completed on 3 
April 2020 but the cleared funds were not fully available in Mr Ss drawdown pension until 6 
April 2020. The payment was then sent to Mr S by faster payment that day.
In view of this she said she was satisfied that Aegon hadnt caused any delay in processing 
Mr Ss withdrawal request.
Mr S said that if he had been told the payment wouldnt be made before the end of the tax 
year, he would have left the funds invested in his drawdown pension. Our investigator 
reiterated that Aegon had explained to Mr Ss IFA that it couldnt guarantee whether the 
payment would be made in the 2019/20 tax year as the withdrawal had been requested so 
close to the end of the tax year.
Mr S did not accept our investigators view. He said he felt that ;
Aegon had the opportunity to pay the necessary funds of the final tranche on Friday 3rd 
April 2020 knowing full well that unless the transaction was completed on that specific date, 
it would fall outside the necessary Tax Year that I specifically needed and had previously 
drawn their attention to, as they paid it immediately on office opening, early on Monday 
6th April 2020. 
Mr S also said he would NOT have proceeded with the drawdown had I known it would 
not be completed in time and would have requested that Aegon retain the funds
The difference between Aegon not processing the payment to me during a supposedly, 
very busy time on 3rd April 2020 and being actually processed straight away on Monday 
6th April 2020 was probably only a matter of an hour or two at the most but has caused me a 
major negative financial impact, huge stress and inconvenience. How can that be fair?
 
Additionally, I would again highlight the fact that the Tax Year ended on Sunday 5th April 
2020, Aegon were fully aware of this and if they were not functioning/operating their 
business during that specific weekend they should have definitively confirmed this and that if 
there was any doubt of their inability to complete the transaction by Friday 3rd April 2020 
they had a duty of care and due diligence to notify both myself and my IFA so that the 
payment was not made at 8am on Monday 6th April 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully considered everything that has been said and provided in connection with 
this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Aegon has acted incorrectly in this matter or 
treated Mr S unfairly. Ill explain why. 
Mr S says:
From commencement of these proceedings I made it explicitly clear that it was imperative 
that with advice received from my Accountant that these transactions must be carried out in 
three tranches namely. Tranche I - liquidation of my entitled and allowable Tax Free Lump 
Sum, immediately thereafter. Tranche 2 specifically, liquidation of £37,500 to enable a 
maximum personal taxation of 20% within the then current financial tax year to 05/04/2020 and in any event, this could not be encashed later than this date and then immediately 
thereafter, Tranche 3 to be encashed in the next tax year commencing 06/04/2020. It was 
under these express terms that I gave my instruction to proceed.
Having reviewed the information available I havent seen anything that shows that either 
Mr S, or his IFA, told Aegon that it was imperative that Tranche 2 specifically, liquidation 
of £37,500 to enable a maximum personal taxation of 20% within the then current financial 
tax year to 05/04/2020 and in any event, this could not be encashed later than this date and 
It was under these express terms that I gave my instruction to proceed.
I have reviewed all the email correspondence between Aegon and Mr Ss IFA that has been 
provided to this service. Having done so I havent seen anything that says or suggests that it 
was imperative that the withdrawal requested on 27 March 2020 was paid before the end of 
the 2019/20 tax year.
But even if either Mr S, or his IFA had told Aegon that it was imperative that he received the 
£37,500 withdrawal requested on 27 March 2020, by the end of the 2019/20 tax year, I dont 
think Aegon could have given any guarantee that this would be possible.
I have reached this view because, as Aegon has explained to Mr S, it wasnt within its gift to 
control how quickly the funds that were sold to meet Mr Ss withdrawal request cleared. And 
Aegon couldnt make the payment Mr S had requested until the funds had fully cleared. 
From the email correspondence I have seen I think Aegon made clear to Mr Ss IFA that it 
could not guarantee if the cleared funds would be received in time for the withdrawal Mr S 
had requested to be made in the 2019/20 tax year.
In particular, I note an email from Mr Ss IFA, sent on 27 March 2020 said;
If the client wishes to withdraw further money from his FAD, would this be crystallised for this 
tax year and will the funds reflect in his account for this tax year? 
Aegon replied that day to say:
If you have only instructed the sell down today it may be tight getting the income paid out 
this tax year. Depending on what time it goes through the sell down to cash may not start 
until Monday and can take up to 5 days depending on the fund manager.
I will wait to see what response we get from the platform centre but it may be a case of 
keeping an eye on the trades to settle then let me know once they do and I will see if I can 
push it through to pay out.
Subsequent emails show Mr Ss IFA contacted Aegon again on 31 March 2020, when the 
funds were shown as pending in Mr Ss drawdown account. I am satisfied that Aegon then 
took steps to monitor Mr Ss account and was ready to transfer the withdrawal Mr S had 
requested as soon as the necessary funds had fully cleared. An internal email between 
Aegon staff on 31 March 2020 said:
Could I ask that we please keep an eye on this one to try to get paid out this tax year. The 
sell down has been done (I have told [Mr Ss IFA] it may not complete in time) but can we 
monitor it just in case it does? 
I can see that Aegon continued to monitor Mr Ss account but unfortunately the funds did not 
fully clear until Monday 6 April 2020. The money was then transferred to Mr Ss bank 
account that day.I note Mr S says the funds had cleared on Friday 3 April 2020. But the records I have seen 
show that the funds did not fully clear in Mr Ss drawdown pension until Monday 6 April 
2020. As this is the case Aegon wasnt in a position to pay the money to Mr S until 6 April 
2020.
Having carefully considered this matter I cant reasonably say that Aegon delayed 
processing the withdrawals Mr S had requested. I note that as the withdrawal request was 
not received until after noon on Friday 27 March 2020 the sell down did not start until the 
next working day, Monday 30 March. As Mr Ss IFA would have been aware, as fund 
holdings are forward priced this means that when a sell order is placed it will trade at the 
price at the next valuation point, which is usually the next working day for orders placed after 
noon.
So, I cant reasonably say that Aegon delayed the sell down as it appears the sell order was 
actioned at the first available opportunity on Monday 30 March 2020. The funds from the sell 
down then fully cleared in Mr Ss drawdown pension on Monday 6 April 2020. As the funds 
were paid to Mr S very shortly after they cleared, I cant reasonably find that Aegon delayed 
the payment of the withdrawal to Mr S.
I note that Mr S says that if Aegon was  not functioning/operating their business during 
that specific weekend they should have definitively confirmed this and that if there was any 
doubt of their inability to complete the transaction by Friday 3rd April 2020 they had a duty of 
care and due diligence to notify both myself and my IFA so that the payment was not made 
at 8am on Monday 6th April 2020.
I dont think whether Aegon had staff working on the last weekend before the end of the tax 
year is relevant to Mr Ss complaint. Aegon had explained to Mr Ss IFA that it couldnt 
guarantee that the payment would be made before the end of the tax year.
It is also clear from the records Aegon has provided, setting out the transactions on Mr Ss 
drawdown pension, that the funds sold down to meet the withdrawal request did not fully 
clear until 10.12am on 6 April 2020. As this is the case, I cant reasonably agree with Mr Ss 
view that Aegon could have made the payment to him on 3 April 2020. I note that the 
payment was made to Mr S by faster payment at 11.28am on 6 April 2020, just over an hour 
after the funds had fully cleared.
I do understand that this is not the decision Mr S was hoping for. But having very carefully 
considered this matter I am satisfied that Aegon made clear to Mr Ss IFA that it couldnt 
guarantee that the withdrawal would be paid in the 2019/20 tax year. I am also satisfied that 
it processed Mr Ss requests promptly and did not cause any delays.
I note that Mr S has said he may take legal action if his complaint is not upheld. Mr S is, of 
course, free to pursue this matter in the courts if he remains of the view that Aegon have 
acted incorrectly in this matter.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman