Page 1 of 6The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to decline Mrs Ss 
total and permanent disability claim.  
Although both Mr and Mrs S have been involved in raising this complaint, for ease of 
reading, my decision will mainly refer to Mrs S. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2008 Mr and Mrs S set up a life assurance policy. Its set up on a decreasing basis over a 
21-year term and includes total and permanent disability cover (TPD).
Mrs S suffers from various conditions that include  but arent limited to - fibromyalgia, 
chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) and axial spondyloarthritis (AS). These have impacted 
Mrs S and her ability carry out her job role. So, she enquired about making a TPD claim 
under the policy. 
Aviva explained the TPD benefit was set up on an activities of daily work basis, and not 
own occupation. So, any claim would be assessed against Mrs Ss ability to perform 
specific activities rather than carry out the duties of her job role. 
Mrs S complained about this but Aviva didnt uphold it. They said the definition for TPD isnt 
stated on the policy schedule even though the terms and conditions say it should be. But the 
TPD definition (activities of daily work) is shown on both the quotation and the application 
within the account pack that was sent to Mr and Mrs S when they took out the policy. Aviva 
said they asked Mr and Mrs S to read and check the confirmation of application form details 
to ensure they had all the correct information. 
Aviva therefore considered Mr and Mrs S ought to have been aware of the definition that 
applied before agreeing to the policy. So, even though the TPD definition isnt listed in the 
policy schedule, the documents Mr and Mrs S received were enough for them to know what 
cover they were taking out. Aviva added that it also doesnt say anywhere within the policy 
documentation that theyd consider a claim under the own occupation definition. So, they 
said they couldnt consider a claim on that basis. 
Aviva then considered Mrs Ss TPD claim but declined it. In short, they said:
The activities of daily work TPD definition was twofold in that Mrs S must be totally
unable to complete three of the seven specified activities and, those restrictions and
limitations must be permanent and irreversible. So, to qualify for the benefit, there
DRN-2960844Page 2 of 6must be no prospect of Mrs Ss functional ability getting better either on its own or 
with reasonable treatment. 
The information they received from Mrs Ss treating doctors show she is due to start 
biological therapy treatment for her AS. And while they noted Mrs S says this 
wouldnt help her other conditions, their chief medical officer (CMO) said hed expect 
to see general improvements in her pain and function if the AS is managed 
effectively. 
Their CMOs view is also in keeping with the opinion of the occupational health 
registrar who saw Mrs S in April 2021. As, in this report, the doctor said Mrs Ss 
return to clinical work was  in part  dependant on her response to the 
commencement of the biological therapy. And so, Mrs S would unlikely be 
considered permanently incapacitated given she had not yet commenced her 
treatment for her rheumatology condition. 
Mrs Ss rheumatologist Dr O had recommended trying cognitive behavioural therapy 
(CBT). And also, very gentle exercise such as Tai Chi, which could be gently 
increased and should improve Mrs Ss overall fitness and allow her to get back to 
more normal levels of activity. 
They appreciate these treatments wont cure Mrs Ss conditions but they are tools to 
help manage them  and hopefully improve Mrs Ss function and quality of life. Given 
the criteria that applies to the TPD benefit, they didnt think they could conclude 
Mrs S was totally and permanently disabled until the outcome of the treatment was 
known, as well as no further treatment being available.
One of our investigators looked into what happened but thought Aviva had acted fairly. He 
felt Aviva was right to consider the claim under the activities of daily work TPD definition. 
This was because, while it didnt confirm what TPD definition would apply on the policy 
schedule, the definition was confirmed in other literature when the policy was set up. 
Our investigator also didnt think Aviva had unfairly declined the claim as the incapacity to 
perform the activities  in accordance with the TPD definition  must be permanent and 
irreversible. So, until the treatment methods have been explored, he didnt think the 
permanency of Mrs Ss inability to carry out at least three of the specific activities had been 
established. But he explained Mrs S may wish to ask Aviva to reconsider her claim once 
further medical opinion has been received following her treatment, assuming she felt she 
met the policy criteria at that time (and cover remained in place). 
Mrs M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go on to explain the reasons for the decision Ive reached, I want to reassure Mrs S 
that I dont underestimate the severity of her health conditions or the impact they have on 
her. I fully appreciate the importance of this matter to Mrs S and so Ive given careful 
consideration to the points shes made. I know that her current situation is extremely difficult 
and I havent made this decision lightly. But, while I know this isnt the outcome Mrs S is 
hoping for, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly by declining her TPD claim. Let me explain 
why. Page 3 of 6Id like to acknowledge that Mrs S has made detailed submissions to support her position on 
this complaint. Ive read and considered everything that has been sent in  but I dont intend 
to respond in similar detail. So, if I dont comment on a particular observation or piece of 
evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need 
to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, its just a reflection 
of the informal nature of our service.
The first issue of consideration here is what TPD definition applies to Mr and Mrs Ss policy. 
The policy terms and conditions, under the TPD section, say:
Definitions of Total and Permanent Disability
The relevant cover Schedule will state the definition of Total and Permanent 
Disability we will use to assess a claim arising before the person covereds 65th 
birthday.
The cover schedule confirms TPD cover is included under the policy but it is silent on what 
definition applies. 
Aviva did however provide Mr and Mrs S with a quotation document that confirmed the 
definition of disability as being activity definition. Mr and Mrs S were also provided a 
confirmation of applications details document which said:
Optional covers
Total and 
Permanent 
Disability Cover
First person Yes
Second person Yes
Definition of total 
and permanent
disability
First Person ADW (Activities of Daily Working)
Second Person ADW (Activities of Daily Working)
Im satisfied the above clearly shows the activities of daily work definition applies to Mr and 
Mrs Ss policy. I understand Mr and Mrs S assumed differently and thought the own 
occupation definition applied. Im also aware theyve questioned the legality of Avivas 
decision to apply the activities of daily work definition even though it isnt stated (as it should 
be) on the policy schedule. Ive carefully thought about this but, while I appreciate their 
disappointment at finding out the type cover they have, I havent seen any product literature 
that confirms or suggests the own occupation definition applies. The confirmation of 
application details document also says:
This document contains information that you have provided us which has been used 
to set up youraccount.Page 4 of 6Please check the details carefully. If you believe that any of the information is 
incorrect, please tell us within 30 days from the date you receive this letter. If you 
dont, it may mean we are unable to pay a claim in the future. 
In light of the above, I think Mr and Mrs S were given confirmation of the cover theyd applied 
for and also the opportunity to correct it if it wasnt what they expected (or wanted). I cant 
see that this happened.
I therefore consider it reasonable to conclude the TPD definition that applies to the policy is 
activities of daily work. So, Ive considered Avivas consideration of Mrs Ss claim against 
this TPD definition:
Activities of Daily Work (to 65th birthday)
The person covered will be regarded as being totally and permanently disabled if, 
because of any injury or illness, they are unable to perform any three Activities of 
Daily Work, without the direct assistance of another person, but with the use, where 
appropriate of certain aids
The disability must be permanent and irreversible.
The activities of daily work are:
Walking  the ability to walk a distance of 200 metres on flat ground without stopping
or experiencing severe discomfort.
Climbing  the ability to walk up or down a flight of 12 stairs without holding onto a
rail or resting.
Bending  the ability to bend or kneel to pick up something from the floor and stand
up again and the ability to get into and out of a standard saloon car.
Communicating  the ability to answer the telephone and take a simple message.
Eyesight  having eyesight, after correction if required, sufficient to read 16 point
print.
Healthcare  having the ability to independently make arrangements, when
necessary, to seek medical attention and take medication as prescribed.
Financial independence  the ability to handle routine day to day financial
transactions.
Due to the symptoms of Mrs Ss conditions (which include pain, fatigue, coordination 
problems and brain fog), shes reported that shes unable to perform more than three of the 
above activities. This includes her physical ability such as the walking or climbing activities 
but also difficulty with the cognitive activities due to the brain fog that she suffers from. For 
example, shes said that shes reliant on Mr S with the healthcare and financial 
independence activities. And that communicating would be a challenge depending on her 
energy levels at that time. 
On the face of it, given Mrs S reports being unable to perform at least three of the above 
activities, she seems to meet the first part of the policy requirement. However, although a 
functional capacity evaluation (FCE) hasnt been carried out to confirm this, Aviva declined 
the claim on the basis Mrs Ss inability to perform at least three of the activities hasnt yet 
been established as being both permanent and irreversible  as per the TPD definition. This 
is because they feel the treatment she is currently undergoing should hopefully improve Page 5 of 6Mrs Ss function and quality of life. 
The policy definitions of permanent and irreversible are:
Permanent  permanent means a condition that is expected to last throughout the
life of the person covered, irrespective of when the cover ends or the person covered
retires.
Irreversible  irreversible means a condition which cannot be reasonably improved
upon medical treatment and/or surgical procedures used by the National Health
Service in the UK at the time of the claim.
Mrs Ss conditions arent curable and are expected to last throughout her lifetime so should 
be considered permanent. The issue here however is whether the impact of the conditions 
and Mrs Ss overall function could be reasonably improved upon medical treatment used by 
the National Health Service. And, at the time of Aviva considering the claim, the two main 
treatments Mrs S was due to undergo were biological therapy treatment for her AS and CBT 
for her CFS and fibromyalgia. Mrs S has strong views about these treatments and she says 
they wont, and havent so far, improved her physical or cognitive abilities. Shes also 
stressed the need for her conditions and associated treatments to be considered separately. 
For example, shes explained the CBT wont improve her AS and nor will the biological 
therapy treatment improve her CFS and fibromyalgia.
Ive taken what Mrs S has said into account as well as the medical submissions from her GP 
in support of her claim. Having done so, this seems very supportive that Mrs S will be 
unlikely to return to her current employment role. But, as Ive established, that isnt the test 
here for Mrs Ss claim. Instead, it needs to be shown that Mrs Ss conditions permanently 
and irreversibly prevent her from performing three of the said activities. But while there 
understandably seems to be doubts about the likely benefit of the treatments given the 
complexity of her conditions, Im not persuaded there was enough medical evidence to 
confirm that shed never be able to complete the activities again. And there is some 
evidence to suggest that treatment may help improve her functionality  or ability to cope 
with the symptoms - to be able to complete the activities. 
From what Ive seen, I think there was sufficient reason to believe the medical treatments 
could improve Mrs Ss functionality when the claim was considered. To what degree with 
these types of treatment is often uncertain. Nevertheless, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Aviva to want to see the treatment benefits (if any) before carryout an FCE or paying the 
claim. It therefore follows that I agree the permanent and irreversible threshold wasnt met at 
that time. 
Id like to again reiterate that I dont underestimate the severity of Mrs Ss conditions. But, 
when deciding this complaint, Ive had to consider her claim against the policy terms. And, 
for the above reasons, I dont think Aviva unfairly declined the claim as I agree Mrs Ss 
inability to carry out at least three of activities hasnt yet been established as being 
permanent and irreversible. I appreciate Mrs Ss prognosis may not be overly positive but, I 
think until the response to treatment is known its difficult to say with any certainty whether 
Mrs S meets the TPD definition. 
Its been explained to Mrs S that, once her response to treatment is known, she can contact 
Aviva again in respect of her claim if she feels she meets the criteria at that time. In 
submitting such a request, Id encourage Mrs S to provide medical evidence specifically in 
relation to the likelihood of her being able to complete the activities in the future or not  
rather than whether she will be able to return to her employment role. Id also like to suggest 
that Aviva considers the benefit of obtaining an FCE when this happens. This will help better Page 6 of 6understand Mrs Ss ability (or inability) to perform the activities in question. That however is 
a decision for Aviva to make when, and if, they reconsider Mrs Ss claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman