DRN-1965493
The complaint
Mr P complains that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
 Mr P was given a guarantor loan of £1,500 by Buddy Loans in September 2018 to be paid in 
12 instalments of around £155 per month. The total amount to be repaid over the one year 
term including interest was £1,844.21. The loan was repaid in full and on time. 
Mr P says he had a gambling problem at the time he applied for the loan and had several 
defaults on his credit file, payday loans and other credit. He complains that Buddy Loans 
failed to carry out proportionate affordability checks or review his bank statements. He thinks 
that if Buddy Loans had done so, it would have seen that it shouldnt have lent to him. He 
says it was irresponsible for it to do so. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think Buddy Loans should have 
lent to Mr P and asked it to put things right. Buddy Loans didnt agree with the investigators 
assessment  though Mr P did  so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website  including the key relevant rules, guidance good industry practice and law. And Ive 
considered this approach when deciding this complaint. 
Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr P 
irresponsibly by carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks. I think there are key 
questions I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint:
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr P was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P in some other way?   
Buddy Loans was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment. This assessment 
is sometimes referred to as an affordability check or affordability assessment. The purpose 
of the checks is for Buddy Loans to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would 
cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr P. In other words, it wasnt about 
Buddy Loans assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of 
the loan repayments on Mr P. The fact that the loan was guaranteed by a third party and the 
potential of Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead of Mr P doesnt alter or lessen the 
obligation.
Buddy Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that 
Buddy Loans had to do, but it could take into account several different things such as the 
amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments and the overall 
circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer as a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).  
Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Buddy Loans asked Mr P for information about his income and expenditure and got his 
permission to review his credit file. It says it carried out a number of checks to confirm what 
Mr P had told it. Buddy Loans says the checks it carried out before agreeing to lend to Mr P 
were reasonable and proportionate, and it believes the loan was affordable for him. But I 
dont think its enough for a lender to simply carry out checks; Id expect it to think about the 
information it gathers when it reaches its decision to lend. 
Its fair to say that Mr P had a reasonable income and was borrowing a relatively low amount 
over the shortest term Buddy Loans allow. So from the point of view of a risk to 
Buddy Loans, I can understand why it felt its checks were proportionate. But if it had 
considered all the information it found and things which Mr P told them during the 
application, I think it would have been reasonable to have made further checks, bearing in 
mind its obligation to carry out borrower focussed checks.
Mr Ps credit file at the time, showed hed defaulted on six other debts  two in the last few 
months. Hed taken 15 short term loans in the last year, and a larger, longer term loan in July 
2018  six weeks or so before this application. He had another guarantor loan with another 
provider (and a different guarantor). During conversations with Buddy Loans, Mr P told it that 
the larger loan had been taken to purchase a vehicle. When they spoke to him again to go 
through his expenditure, Mr P told them he didnt drive and paid nothing in insurance. 
While Mr Ps income had been confirmed through the checks Buddy Loans carried out, I 
think his credit history and the information it gathered during its affordability assessment 
ought to have made it realise that further checks were necessary. The rules and regulations 
say that where income and expenditure is taken into account, its not generally sufficient for 
a lender to rely solely on a statement of those matters from a potential borrower. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think the checks Buddy Loans carried out before 
agreeing to lend to Mr P were fair, proportionate or reasonable. What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Mr P has provided us with copies of his bank statements for a few months leading up to his 
application to Buddy Loans. Ive looked at those to consider what Buddy Loans might have 
learned from more detailed checks. 
Buddy Loans says that based on what Mr P told them in response to its questions about his 
income and expenditure, and that the loan was repaid in full and on time, it thinks the loan 
was affordable. But as Ive said earlier, a lender is required to ensure a loan can be repaid 
sustainably by the borrower; that is, they should be able to repay the credit without undue 
difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further.
I dont think that the fact that the loan was repaid on time and in full can be taken as proof 
that the loan was affordable or sustainable. Mr P has said the he was very conscious that 
hed asked a friend to act as guarantor for the loan, so hed treated it as a priority. 
Different checks are likely to show different things and Buddy Loans was already aware from 
the checks it had carried out, that Mr P had taken 15 payday loans in a year and had 
recently acquired further credit. His credit file showed he had six defaulted accounts  two in 
the last few months. This doesnt demonstrate an ability to sustainably repay the borrowing 
he had at the time and, in my view, casts doubt on whether hed be able to sustainably repay 
the new loan. 
I think if Buddy Loans had carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, it would 
have found out more about Mr Ps financial circumstances. It would have seen for example, 
that Mr P was regularly gambling a large percentage of his income  and in some months 
more than his income. 
I think Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have realised that Mr B was having serious 
financial difficulties managing his finances and that he was most likely borrowing as a result 
of his gambling. I think it ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely that Mr P 
would be able to sustainably repay this loan, so it should have concluded it was not 
appropriate to lend to him. 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr P in some other way? 
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complain. Having done so, I dont think Buddy Loans has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr P in some other way. But I do think Buddy Loans should have refused to lend to 
Mr P, so I am upholding his complaint about the loan.   
Putting things right
 When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr P in the position he would be in now if he hadnt 
been given the loan. Mr P was given the loan, used the money and has already repaid the 
entire amount including interest due under the agreement.
So, I think Buddy Loans should:
Calculate the total amount Mr P has paid to the loan (including interest and charges) and deduct the amount of the loan itself (£1,500). 
oIf this results in Mr P having repaid more than the loan he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded to him along with 8% simple interest from 
the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement. 
oIf Buddy Loans considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken 
off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ps credit file regarding the loan. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Advancis Limited 
trading as Buddy Loans should put things right for Mr P in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman