DRN-2861770
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Zenith Insurance Plc didn't update the address on his commercial 
motor insurance policy and didn't notify him that his policy had lapsed.
What happened
Mr F took out a Zenith policy in January 2018. He contacted Zenith in July 2018 about 
changing the van and his address on the policy. Zenith updated the van on the policy and 
charged Mr F around £174 to do so. Mr F told Zenith he hadn't yet changed address and 
would contact it again when he had. When Mr Fs policy was due to renew in 2019 he spoke 
to Zenith again. At that time Zenith updated the policy with the new address Mr Fs van was 
kept at overnight. But, because of a technical fault, it couldn't update his correspondence 
address and left that as his old address.
In January 2020 Zenith wrote to Mr F to tell him that, owing to a change in its underwriting 
guidance, it wasn't offering to renew his policy. Mr F says he didn't get that notification. 
Around a week after his policy was due to renew Mr F spoke to Zenith again to say that he 
wanted to cancel the policy. At that time Zenith told him that his policy hadn't renewed and 
as such there was no cover in place.
Mr F brought his complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't 
think Zenith had dealt with Mr F fairly so he said it should pay him £200 compensation. Mr F 
didn't think that went far enough, so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to partly uphold it. My award to put things right will be the same as 
our investigator recommended. 
When Mr F spoke with Zenith in July 2018 it charged him an additional premium of around 
£175. That additional premium was for the change of van only and not his upcoming change 
of address That was because Mr F told Zenith he hadn't yet moved. So it's not the case, as 
Mr F believes, that Zenith charged him an extra premium in July 2018 because of his change 
of address, that additional premium was simply for the change of van on the policy.
Before Mr Fs policy was due to renew in January 2019 Zenith updated the policy details for 
the address where his van was kept overnight. So Zenith was aware of where Mr Fs van 
was kept and, had he needed to claim on his policy, before it lapsed in January 2020 then 
there shouldnt have been any issues with his cover. Thats because Zenith was aware of 
where his van was kept, whats known as the risk address, so his van was appropriately 
insured at the correct address. 
But, for technical reasons, while Zenith was aware that Mr F had moved it couldn't update 
the address it sent post to on its system. That meant that anything Zenith posted to Mr F was 
sent to his old address. And while that wasn't immediately a problem, as Zenith issued its 
policy documents to Mr F by email, it should have taken steps at that point to sort out this 
technical fault before it did become an issue. But it didn't do that. As a result the letters it 
sent to Mr F, by post, in January 2020 to tell him it wouldn't renew his policy, were posted to 
his old address. So they could, potentially, have been opened by someone else. Given that 
Zenith had had a year to sort out its technical issue I don't think that was fair.
Ill point out that as well as posting the above letter, Zenith also emailed it to Mr F. Its 
apparent from the file that Mr F received other documents Zenith had emailed to him. So it's 
not clear why he didn't see this particular email. But if Zenith had sorted out its technical 
issue with Mr Fs postal address promptly then its likely that - even if he didn't see the email 
- he would have received the letter through the post. And in those circumstances he would 
have known his policy wouldn't renew. But that didn't happen.
Mr Fs said that because of Zeniths error he didn't know his policy hadnt renewed. So the 
van had been driven without insurance for around a week. Hes said that anyone driving it 
could have received a fine and points on their licence had they been stopped by the police. 
And he wouldn't have been covered if hed had to make a claim. Mr F believes Zenith should 
compensate him for that. 
But, thankfully, none of those things actually happened. So while I can understand that Mr F 
found Zeniths delay in updating his correspondence address upsetting, he didn't suffer any 
actual material loss as a result. And, when deciding whether to award compensation, and if 
so how much, we look at how a consumer has been affected by a business errors and 
omissions. In considering that, we don't think it's fair to award compensation for things that 
might have happened but didn't. It follows that I don't intend to award compensation for what 
could have happened had Mr F or a named driver been stopped by the police or needed to 
claim. 
That said, it's clear that Zeniths failure to properly update Mr F's address on its system has 
been a source of distress and inconvenience for him. Zeniths sent his personal information 
to an address he no longer lives at and hed had the shock of finding out he wasn't insured. 
So to address that I think Zenith should pay him £200 compensation. Im satisfied that sum 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances as its similar to awards we make in other cases 
of similar seriousness. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I partly uphold this complaint. I require Zenith Insurance Plc to 
pay Mr F £200 compensation to reflect his distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman