DRN-2572688
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy that the Co-operative Bank plc (the Co-op) gave her information about a 
potentially fraudulent transaction on her credit card and that this caused her to cancel it 
unnecessarily.
She is also unhappy with the attitude of Co-ops staff, and the accuracy of information she 
was given about the time it would take to get a new card.
What happened
In early July 2020, Ms F received a call from her water company to take payment of a bill of 
£113.15. The water company went through some security questions, including Ms Fs date 
of birth and bill amount. Ms F checked the number calling, and found it was a genuine 
number. 
After the call, Ms F had some misgivings, and called back to check that the call was genuine. 
The water company told her that it hadnt made the call or taken the payment.
This immediately rang alarm bells and on the same day, Ms F rang her card issuer, the Co-
Op, to advise them of what had happened. The operator advised that the payment looked 
genuine, and that it might be that the water company had not seen the payment yet. But he 
then said that it was possible for a scammer to replicate or duplicate the company name. He 
suggested cancelling the card in the light of Ms Fs concerns. He couldnt guarantee the 
payment was genuine. Ms F decided to cancel the card. He also advised Ms F to check 
again with the water company but said he would report it as an attempted fraud on her 
account.
 
An operator from the Co-ops fraud department called Ms F the next day and confirmed that 
the payment was genuine, and that the information Ms F had been given about potential 
cloning of a companys name and number wasnt correct.
Ms F complained that the information shed been given caused her to cancel her card 
unnecessarily. She was also unhappy with the way Co-ops staff spoke to her, and with the 
conflicting information she was given about the arrival of a replacement card. 
Ms F complained to the Co-op. It accepted there had been some service failings but didnt 
agree that the information it provided had been the reason for her cancelling her card. It paid 
her £50 compensation. 
Ms F wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought that the main reason Ms F decided to cancel the card was the 
concern she already had after her conversation with the water company, and that Co-op had 
acted reasonably in proceeding to cancel the card. He agreed shed been given incorrect 
information during calls with the Co-op but didnt think Ms F had cause to complain about the 
attitude of the Co-ops staff. He didnt think the Co-op needed to do anything more.
Ms F was not happy with this, so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This issue started with Ms Fs conversation with the water company, and the anxiety that this 
understandably caused. Ms F told the Co-op that the water company had said it was not 
them who called her, and that they hadnt taken the payment. Ms F told the Co-op that she 
thought shed been a victim of fraud and might have to cancel her card.
Ms F discussed the transaction at some length with the Co-op. Ms F was worried that the 
payment had been taken by some-one other than the water company as shed been told by 
the water company that it wasnt them. The operator said the payment looked genuine but 
said that with Ms Fs concerns, hed get the card blocked to prevent any further transactions 
going through and Ms F agreed with this action. The operator went on to discuss the 
possibility of the transaction being a scam, saying it was possible for the name to be copied. 
This wasnt right, and this information was corrected by the Co-op on a call the next day. Ms 
F sought confirmation that the transaction was with her water company, and as the operator 
said he couldnt validate this, Ms F asked for the card to be cancelled. 
  
Ms F feels that the information given by the operator on the call caused her to cancel the 
card, and that she wouldnt have cancelled it if shed been told by the Co-op that it was a 
genuine transaction and wouldnt have suffered the inconvenience that this caused. 
Having listened to initial conversation with the Co-op, and the one that took place with the its 
fraud department the next day, I cant say what Ms F might have decided if the conversation 
had taken a different course.  I can see that she was understandably anxious throughout as 
she had effectively been told by the water company that a fraudulent transaction had taken 
place, and I think most people would have reasonably wanted subsequent re-assurance 
from them that theyd been paid. I can also see that the first operator was taking account of 
this in asking Ms F if she wanted to cancel the card, using phrases like with your concerns, 
which I think was a reasonable and appropriate approach in the circumstances.
The discussion then centred on whether the operator could categorically say that the 
transaction was genuine. While he said he thought it looked genuine, he also raised the 
possibility of merchant fraud, but described a scenario that was not in fact a risk due to the 
way that the Visa card scheme works. While I can see that this was unhelpful, I think that in 
the context of the situation, where Ms F had been categorically told by the water company 
that it had not taken the payment, it was not unreasonable for the operator to adopt a safety 
first approach and suggest cancelling the card to allay Ms Fs concerns. 
When Ms F spoke to the fraud department the next day, the operator was able to say that  
from what she could see, the payment had been taken by the water company, and explained 
that for a third party to have taken the payment, they would have had to register with Visa for 
payment processing in the water companys name. This is how merchant identity fraud can 
happen. Ms F reasonably wanted to check with the water company that the payment had 
been received on her account, and from what I could hear, the conversation shed had with 
the water company was still playing on her mind, although she had been given reassurance 
by the Co-op about the transaction. As I said earlier, I cant say what Ms F would have 
decided if shed had this re-assurance earlier, but I can understand that she wanted 
confirmation from the water company to fully put her mind at rest.      
In summary, while the Co-op operator did give Ms F incorrect information about the nature of 
the fraud risk, given the unequivocal nature of the conversation Ms F had with the water company and its impact on Ms F, I cant say that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in inviting 
Ms F to tell it to cancel her card . 
With regard to Ms Fs complaints about her other interactions with Co-op staff, there were 
times where the operators gave varied and contradictory information regarding the 
timescales involved in getting a replacement card. I appreciate that this was frustrating for 
Ms F, and that it made an already in a stressful situation more difficult.  Ms F has also 
complained about the way her calls were conducted, but having listened to the call 
recordings, I didnt hear anything to suggest that the various bank operators who spoke to 
Ms F were other than polite and doing their best to help.
I understand that the Co-Op have already given £50 as a gesture of goodwill for the trouble 
and upset caused by its communication errors, and given my findings, I think this was fair 
and reasonable compensation, and I will not be asking the Co-op to do any more.
I know Ms F will be disappointed with this outcome, but I hope that she can understand my 
reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman