DRN-3950003
The complaint
F complains that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) has unfairly refused to 
meet a claim made after an accident.
What happened
Mr F is self-employed, and trades as F. As hes been the main correspondent Ill refer to him 
in the rest of the decision.
Mr F bought a personal accident policy from AIG. He says he bought it partly to provide an 
income if he was injured in an accident and couldnt work.
In April 2022 Mr F ruptured his Achilles tendon whilst playing sport. When he realised he 
wouldnt be able to work for at least four months he contacted AIG to make a claim. He told 
AIG the injury happened when he went from standing to a run.
AIG accepted the claim, but then said that although it acknowledged Mr F had been injured 
and couldnt work, it didnt think his injury had been caused by an accident as defined in the 
policy. It wouldnt meet his claim.
Mr F complained but AIG didnt change its conclusions. So he asked us to review his 
complaint. 
Our investigator compared what Mr F said about how he was injured with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. He concluded that his injury didnt appear to have been caused in 
circumstances that fit the definition of an accident.
Mr F doesnt think thats fair. He says AIG specifically mentions in the policy that ruptures of 
an Achilles tendon are covered, and that his claim should be met.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I have every sympathy with the injury Mr F has suffered and the impact its had on his ability 
to work, especially as hes self-employed. But that doesnt mean I can tell AIG to meet a 
claim if the circumstances of the injury dont meet policy terms and conditions.
Im not going to comment on every one of the terms and conditions that apply to this claim. 
Theres been no argument that Mr F suffered an injury, that he was insured at the time or 
that he was then unable to work for a period of time. Instead Ill concentrate only on whether 
Mr Fs injury was caused by an accident as defined in the policy.
Ill start by saying that all insurers include various terms and conditions in their policies and 
that these reflect the level of risk theyre prepared to cover. The definition of accident in this 
policy is similar to many others in comparable policies  so it isnt particularly unusual or 
onerous.
The policy says, in summary, that an accident is something thats sudden, unexpected and 
specific, and is caused by something external.
Theres no doubt Mr Fs injury was sudden, unexpected and specific. He was trying to run 
from a standing position, the injury was immediate and specific  and no doubt unexpected. 
The only remaining criteria is that the accident must be caused by something external, and 
this is where the issue lies. Mr F says accident was caused by something external  the 
pressure of his foot against the ground. He also sent us some information from his doctor 
that says ruptures like this arent caused by impact. In contrast AIG says the injury was 
caused by an internal issue  in that the rupture occurred because of the activity. It says the 
action wasnt accidental, as Mr F intended to run.
Im more persuaded by AIGs interpretation of the term. Mr F was playing a sport which 
required him to run, and he says thats what he was trying to do. So he wasnt doing 
anything unusual he didnt trip over anything, for example. The cause of the rupture seems 
to have been related to the decision he took to run from a standing position, so I cant say 
the injury was the result of an external force.
Whilst I accept the policy does cover ruptures of the Achilles tendon, these can be caused 
by accidents such as falls or trips. I dont think the inclusion of cover for a ruptured Achilles 
tendon implies all such ruptures should be covered, however they were caused.
I can see that AIG did apologise for not responding to a couple of emails Mr F sent. That 
seems an appropriate way to deal with this service issue.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman