DRN-3502609
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined their claim against 
their travel insurance policy. Reference to URV includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in December 2020, Mr and Mrs Y bought an annual travel 
insurance policy underwritten by URV. They planned a trip which had a departure date of 
16 March 2021 and an intended return date of 30 April 2021. 
The airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Ys return flight, rebooked the flight for a later date then 
cancelled the rebooked flight. I understand that the airline refunded the flight costs.      
Mr and Mrs Y arranged their own return flight with a different airline, which cost more 
than their original return flight. They returned home on 4 June 2021.
Mr and Mrs Y made a claim against their policy for the additional cost of the return flight 
they arranged themselves and additional livery, kennel, and cattery fees. URV declined 
their claim. Mr and Mrs Y didnt think that was fair and pursued their complaint.  
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Mr and Mrs Ys 
policy doesnt cover their claim for the cost of the return flight they arranged. The 
investigator said that Mr and Mrs Ys claim for additional kennel/cattery fees is covered 
by the policy. He said that whilst Mr and Mrs Ys return flight was cancelled, not delayed, 
it was fair and reasonable for URV to deal with Mr and Mrs Ys claim for additional 
kennel fees under this part of the policy.  
Mr and Mrs Y accepted the investigators view but URV didnt. It said that the policy is 
clear and theres no cover for either the additional flight costs or the additional 
kennel/cattery fees. It says that in relation to the claim for additional kennel/cattery fees, 
the policy refers to pre-booked transport. which means transport to an airport, not the 
flight itself. URV says that, in any event, Mr and Mrs Ys return flight was cancelled, not 
delayed. URV asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as 
follows: 
Section 12  Extended kennel and/or cattery fees
What is covered
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover [] for any additional 
kennel/cattery fees incurred if your domestic dog(s)/cat(s) are in a kennel/cattery during 
your trip and your return to your home has been delayed due to the delayed arrival of   
pre-booked transport, your bodily injury, illness or disease.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im upholding                      
Mr and Mrs Ys complaint in part because I dont think that URV treated them fairly and 
reasonably in declining their claim for additional kennel/cattery fees. Ill explain why Ive 
come to that decision. 
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. 
The investigator explained why he didnt uphold the part of Mr and Mrs Ys  
complaint in relation to URVs refusal of their claim for additional flight costs. I 
agree with the investigators analysis. Mr and Mrs Ys trip wasnt cancelled or 
curtailed, it was extended. The delayed departure and abandonment provisions 
relate only to Mr and Mrs Ys initial departure, not their return. And the insured 
events relating to missed departure arent relevant here. In any event, the original 
airline offered to rebook the flights. Whilst I understand Mr and Mrs Ys reluctance 
to rebook with that airline, its offer meant that Mr and Mrs Y could have returned 
with the original airline.
Mr and Mrs Y accepted the investigators view. So, the remaining area of dispute is 
URVs refusal to settle the part of Mr and Mrs Ys claim for additional livery, kennel, 
and cattery fees. The relevant policy term, which Ive set out above, relates to 
extended kennel and/or cattery fees for domestic dogs and cats. It doesnt cover 
livery fees for horses.
URV says that the policy term Ive set out above relates to delayed transport to an 
airport, not delay of the flight itself. But thats not what the policy term says. The 
policy doesnt define pre-booked transport. I think its reasonable to conclude that 
a flight is pre-booked transport. So, the policy term covers circumstances where a 
return home is delayed due to the delay of a flight. If URV wished to limit cover to 
delayed arrival of pre-booked transport to the airport, it could have said that.  URV is right to say that Mr and Mrs Ys return flight was cancelled, not delayed. 
When deciding what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a 
case of this nature, wed generally consider the ultimate impact of the situation on 
the consumer. Here, the impact of the cancellations of Mr and Mrs Ys return flights 
was the same as if their flights were delayed, then cancelled. So, I think its fair and 
reasonable for URV to deal with Mr and Mrs Ys claim for extended kennel and 
cattery fees as if their return flights had been delayed, not cancelled. 
For these reasons, I dont think that URV acted fairly and reasonably in declining 
the part of Mr and Mrs Ys claim which relates to extended kennel/cattery fees. It 
should deal with the claim under the remaining terms of the policy. As                   
Mr and Mrs Y have been kept out of the use of the settlement money, URV should 
also pay interest on the settlement amount. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, URV should deal with Mr and Mrs Ys claim for extended 
kennel/cattery fees in accordance with the remaining terms of the policy. It should also pay 
Mr and Mrs Y interest on the settlement at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the date they 
made their claim to the date it makes the payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires URV to take off tax from this interest. URV must give      
Mr and Mrs Y a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. Union Reiseversicherung AG
should now take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman