DRN-2390843
The complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank plc has not paid him a promotional offer of £50 when he 
opened his account.
What happened
Mr C says he applied for a TSB account via a cashback site and was expecting to be paid 
£50. He says the money wasnt paid and so spoke to TSB about this. And says he was told 
by TSB that he may not have complied with the cashback sites terms and conditions before 
being told he hadnt completed a full account switch. Mr C says it wasnt a requirement to 
make a full account switch and so ought to be paid the £50.
TSB told Mr C in its final response letter to contact the cashback company and then told us 
that the reason for the money not being paid was due to Mr C not registering for paperless 
communications and statements. It accepts giving Mr C incorrect information but says the 
outcome would have been the same.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr C hadnt met the incentive terms and conditions as his account wasnt set up for 
paperless communications and statements. The investigator accepted Mr C had been given 
incorrect information by TSB but thought in any event the outcome would have been the 
same.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says he wasnt told about the requirement for paperless 
communication or about the need for a full account switch and that it wasnt mentioned in the 
application process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate that Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
I accept that TSB gave Mr C incorrect information by telling him the problem may have been 
with him not keeping to the cashback sites terms and conditions, and by telling him the 
issue was caused by not making a full account switch. I appreciate Mr Cs frustration in 
those circumstances about what ought to have been a straightforward matter of telling him 
why he hadnt been paid the £50. And it ought to have been clear to TSB that Mr C wasnt 
set up for paperless communications and statements and that was the reason for not paying 
the money.
I have looked at TSBs terms and conditions about the cashback incentive. Im satisfied they 
say that in order to be eligible for the cashback, customers must be set up for paperless 
communication and statements. Im also satisfied that information is contained on the 
cashback site website and is contained on TSBs website and in its terms and conditions. I 
have looked at TSBs records and can see that Mr C was not set up for paperless 
communications and statements. So, I find in those circumstances Mr C didnt meet the offer 
terms and conditions and TSB was reasonably entitled to withhold the £50 cashback and 
didnt act unfairly or make a mistake.
Overall, Im satisfied the offer terms and conditions are made clear on both websites and so I 
cant fairly order TSB to pay Mr C the £50. I accept TSB ought to have given Mr C the 
correct information, but I dont think that justifies compensation as I think the outcome would 
have been the same- that Mr C wasnt eligible for the cashback.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman