DRN-3153044
The complaint
Mr M complains that when his car was written off after an accident Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited only paid him 80.67% of its value, which he thinks is unfair.
What happened
Mr M has car insurance with Admiral. In October 2020 he was changing his car and he 
contacted Admiral via their webchat about his policy. He initially told Admiral that he wanted 
to cancel his policy, which was due to renew on 20 November 2020, as hed found cheaper 
cover elsewhere. 
Mr M was told that Admiral didnt want to lose him as a customer and having provided details 
of his new car he was offered a discount on his policy. Mr M accepted the new premium he 
was offered. He wasnt asked whether any other details had changed, but he was told to 
check his renewal confirmation and inform Admiral if any details were incorrect.
Mr M was told his updated policy documents would be available online within 24 hours, or if 
he received documents by post, theyd be sent to him in three to five working days. He didnt 
contact Admiral about his updated documents.
On 1 February 2021 Mr M was involved in a multi vehicle accident. He submitted a claim to 
Admiral and having assessed his car they decided to treat it as a total loss. 
On 5 February 2021 Admiral wrote to Mr M to say that theyd found hed changed his 
occupation in September 2020, but he hadnt notified them of this. They said that when his 
new policy documents were sent to him, he was asked to check that all the details were 
correct. But he didnt contact them to update the details of his occupation.
Admiral said they were treating this as a Qualifying Misrepresentation under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). They told Mr M they had the 
option to void his insurance policy if there had been non-disclosure of relevant information. 
But they were prepared to accept that he hadnt deliberately misled them. 
They said that if hed provided details of his new occupation there would have been an 
addition premium of £137.38 to pay, taking into account the change of his car. So Mr Ms 
current premium was only 80.67% of the premium he should have paid, had he provided the 
correct information about his occupation. And Admiral said subject to any new information 
altering their view on indemnity, they were prepared to pay 80.67% of his claim.
The following day Admiral wrote to Mr M with an offer based on the current market value of 
his car. They offered him a settlement of 80.67% of their valuation, from which his policy 
excess of £750 was to be deducted. 
Mr M had a finance agreement and the proportional settlement Admiral offered wouldnt 
clear the amount due to the finance company. Mr M had GAP insurance on his car, but even 
with the sum this covered he says he was left with the balance of the outstanding finance 
agreement to pay.
Mr M complained to Admiral as he felt only offering a proportional settlement was unfair and 
they should have allowed him to pay the additional premium they said theyd have charged. 
He also said that during the webchat he wasnt asked if thered been any changes to his 
circumstances, before the renewal premium was offered.
And he said hed lost out financially, as he had to take time off work to try and sort out the 
situation. He also said hed been very stressed and his relationships with family and friends 
and been strained, as hed needed to borrow money from them to clear his outstanding 
finance.
Admiral didnt uphold his complaint. They said their underwriting department had calculated 
his premium correctly and this, and their decision on a proportional settlement, had been 
fully explained in their letter of 5 February 2021. They said as a policyholder it was his 
responsibility to check all his policy details were correct, and hed been sent his renewal 
documents 21 days before renewal, so he could do this. They reminded him that hed 
changed his occupation in September 2020, and they should have been advised of this 
immediately. 
They also said they couldnt provide the option of him paying an additional premium and the 
claim being dealt with on a 100% basis, as the legal remedy under CIDRA was for them to 
pay the claim on a proportional basis.
They accepted that during the webchat he wasnt asked if his occupation had changed, but 
said he was told to check his new documents carefully and let them know if anything was 
incorrect or needed updating. Admiral also referred Mr M to his Motor Proposal Confirmation 
and the general conditions in his policy booklet, both of which said that any changes needed 
to be notified to them, and that failure to do this could affect his ability to claim, or the 
amount hed be able to claim.
Admirals response to Mr Ms complaint included comments on how they calculated the 
amount they offered for his car and an increased settlement offer. This was: -
Market value £16,000.00
Pro Rata Percentage 80.67%
Pro Rata Market Value £12,970.20
Less Excess £750.00
Amount Paid to Finance £12,157.20
Finance Outstanding £4,568.06
So Admiral didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M then complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and felt that 
Admiral had acted correctly, as both the Motor Proposal Confirmation and Mr Ms policy 
guide said that he needed to notify them immediately of any change of occupation. She 
accepted that thered been a misrepresentation by Mr M and said Admiral had followed 
CIDRA and offered him an appropriate proportional settlement. So she didnt ask Admiral to 
do anything further.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators opinion as he believes Admiral had a duty to ask him if 
any of his personal circumstances had changed. He says that had he been asked about his 
occupation hed have advised them of the change and the situation hes found himself in 
could have been avoided.
The case has now come to me for a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy booklet makes it clear that Admiral should be notified immediately of any 
change in his circumstances. In the policy booklet, under general conditions it states: -
Change of circumstances
You must tell us if any information on your Motor Proposal Confirmation changes. If you 
make changes to your policy, you may have to pay an additional premium. 
And: -
Failure to keep your information up to date could affect your ability, or the amount you are 
able to claim. If your information differs significantly it could result in your policy being 
cancelled or declared void.
Mr M was sent his renewal documents before he changed his car. These documents 
included his Motor Proposal Confirmation and he was sent a further copy of this after the 
webchat about his renewal.
Although Mr M wasnt asked if his personal circumstances had changed during the webchat, 
he was clearly told to check the documents he received carefully and to contact Admiral if 
anything wasnt correct. 
The Motor Proposal Form states that Mr Ms occupation is Assistant Manager. But hed 
changed his job in September 2020, so this wasnt correct. The form includes the following 
information: -
Any incorrect information could lead to us declaring your policy void and/or declining any 
claim. We use all the information contained on this form to assess the risk we are 
undertaking. You should disclose this information accurately and you must contact us if any 
information is incorrect or has changed.
This forms part of the declaration Mr M agreed to when he took out his policy with Admiral.
Having considered the policy documentation Mr M received and what the parties have said, 
Im satisfied that he should have been aware that he needed to notify Admiral of his change 
of occupation. And that this was material information Admiral considered when assessing his 
premium. I also think that the consequences of not keeping his information up to date were 
clearly set out in his documentation.
So Im not persuaded by Mr Ms argument that he received a lot of information from Admiral, 
that this information wasnt made clear to him, and that had he been asked if there had been 
any change in his circumstances this situation could have been avoided.
It follows that I accept Mr M made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA when 
renewing his policy. Admiral have said that they accept this wasnt done deliberately. So 
theyve treated it as a careless misrepresentation. Where theres been a careless 
misrepresentation and the business would still have entered into the insurance contract, but 
on different terms (including a higher premium), CIDRA says that the insurer may reduce 
proportionately the amount to be paid on the claim.This is what Admiral did. They calculated the additional premium Mr M would have been 
charged if hed notified them of his change of occupation, and offered him a proportional 
settlement of 80.67% of his claim. I understand that this has resulted in the finance on Mr 
Ms car not being cleared in full after his car was written off. And I appreciate the impact this 
had had on him. But Admiral have dealt with his claim as theyre required to do, so I wont be 
asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
So my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2022.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman