DRN-1805449
 
The complaint
Mrs K says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Nationwide arranged unsecured loans for Mrs K in 1996 and 1997. On each occasion, it sold 
her a PPI policy. The evidence indicates to me that the first policy was paid for by monthly 
premium whereas the cost of the second PPI was added to the loan and attracted interest. 
Both policies covered Mrs K if she couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. They 
also included life cover.
Nationwide sold Mrs K a third PPI policy in 1998 but has already settled her complaint about 
that. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint about the first two policies should be upheld. Mrs K 
didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The PPI was sold more than 20 years ago. So, I dont find it surprising that there are gaps in 
the information thats still available from the sales. Instead, Ive considered the information 
the parties have been able to provide and taken into account experience of how Nationwide 
sold PPI generally.
Mrs K says she was pressured into buying the PPI and I dont doubt thats what she 
genuinely remembers. However, Ive thought about the possibility that her recollections 
might no longer be accurate given how long ago the sales occurred and that memories tend 
to fade over time. And Ive seen little else to show Nationwide placed undue pressure on her 
to buy the PPI.
Nationwide should have made Mrs K aware she had a choice about taking separate PPI 
and, from experience of how Nationwide made sales like these, I believe it probably did. I 
recognise Mrs Ks frustration at the lack of evidence to support Nationwides position but, 
equally, theres a lack of evidence to show it did anything wrong.     
Of course, I cant say for sure what happened. But, overall, I consider that Mrs K was aware 
she was being sold optional PPI. And that she went ahead with it on that basis.
Mrs K believes Nationwide recommended the PPI to her. She points out that, for example, a loan statement regarding the loan starting in 1997 says PPIs an option we strongly 
recommend you consider. But that was included in paperwork sent after the sales had 
already taken place. Even if that, or similar, wording was included on papers from 1996 or 
1997, that wouldnt necessarily lead me to believe Nationwide had assessed Mrs Ks 
financial demands and needs and made a personal recommendation. 
That said, Nationwide still should have provided enough information so that Mrs K could 
make an informed choice about whether to go ahead with the PPI.
In the circumstances, I cant be certain what information Nationwide gave Mrs K. But, if there 
were problems with the sale, Ive no reason to conclude better information would have put 
her off the PPI. I say that because:  
It seems Mrs K was eligible for the cover. And I cant see that shed have been 
significantly affected by anything the PPI excluded or limited cover for.
The first policy cost around £15 a month and Ive seen nothing to indicate Mrs K 
would have found that unaffordable. In terms of the second policy, Im satisfied, on 
balance, that Nationwide would have provided Mrs K with information about the costs 
of the PPI including the interest payable on the loan for the premium.
Mrs K was entitled to enhanced sick pay and possibly redundancy pay from her 
employer. But the PPI would have paid out on top of that. And until the end of the 
respective loans if she was off work sick and for up to 12 months per claim if she 
became unemployed.
She says she could have relied on her husband but that depended on his financial 
situation at the time. The PPI benefits, on the other hand, were guaranteed. If they 
had savings, the PPI would have allowed them to retain them or put them to another 
use, such as covering their other living costs if Mrs K wasnt working. Overall, I think 
Mrs K would have valued the extra protection the PPI provided.
Some single premium PPI policies didnt give a proportional refund of the premium if 
the loan was repaid early, and that would have made cancelling them more 
expensive than if they did. But Im satisfied the second policy would, in any case, 
have provided a proportional refund.
 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs Ks lost out because of how Nationwide sold 
her the PPI. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs Ks said but that doesnt change my mind. For example, 
Im aware Nationwide settled her complaint about the sale in 1998. And that she cant see 
why it shouldnt also settle her complaint about these sales. But Nationwides entitled to 
assess each sale individually. Were required to take into account whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of each complaint. I realise how strongly Mrs K feels about the 
complaint and Im sorry to have to disappoint her.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman