DRN-1922910
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans acted irresponsibly 
in giving her a loan. 
What happened
Mrs C applied for a loan from Oakbrook Finance in June 2018. The loan was for £3000 to be 
repaid by 24 payments of £196.58. Her application said that the purpose of the loan was for 
debt consolidation. Mrs C made the loan payments until September 2019. She made no 
further payments after that.
In September 2019, Mrs C complained to Oakbrook Finance that she felt the loan was made 
irresponsibly. Oakbrook Finance did not agree. It said it had used its standard credit 
assessment which included a review of Mrs Cs credit report. It said its assessment took 
account of her financial commitments and income, and the fact that she had said it was for 
the purpose of consolidating her borrowing. Mrs C felt that this was not enough. She felt that 
Oakbrook Finance should have made further checks that would have shown that she used 
multiple payday loans and was regularly using her overdraft. She complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
After looking into Oakbrook Finances processes, the investigator felt that they dealt with the 
risk of non-payment to the lender (credit risk) but did not look at Mrs Cs individual 
circumstances to see if she could afford the repayments. The investigator found that it 
should have done this.
Oakfield Finance has now reviewed Mrs Cs credit report in order to consider whether she 
could afford the repayments. It calculated that if Mrs C had used the loan to consolidate two 
of her credit commitments, she would have had a monthly disposable income of £698.17. 
This figure is an example of what she would have to spend after making all her loan 
payments, including the loan with Oakfield Finance, assuming she paid off particular loans. It 
calculated that her monthly disposable income would be £436.97 if she didnt use the loan to 
pay off some of her loans. Oakfield Finance also pointed out that all Mrs Cs borrowing was 
up to date when she applied for her loan. Because of this, Oakfield Finance felt that Mrs C 
could afford the repayments and that its decision to give the loan was responsible.
The investigator thought that Oakfield Finance would have made the loan if it had calculated 
Mrs Cs disposable income when she applied for the loan.  He noted that Mrs C had 
regularly used payday loans and had a County Court Judgment against her. But these were 
all marked as settled. The investigator thought that Mrs Cs history did not mean that it was 
necessarily irresponsible to lend to her.  He also noted that her seven active loans were up 
to date when she applied for her loan with Oakfield Finance.
He thought that Mrs Cs circumstances at the time suggested that she wouldve been able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable manner. For this reason, he did not ask Oakbrook Finance to 
offer a refund or compensation to Mrs C.  
Mrs C disagreed with the investigator. She felt that as she was using one payday loan to pay 
off another, lending without robust checks was irresponsible. She asked for her case to be 
referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oakfield Finance reviewed Mrs Cs credit file when she applied, but I cant see that Oakfield 
Finance looked into Mrs Cs circumstances to see if she could afford the loan. The FCA 
Consumer Credit Handbook (CONC ) requires a lender to make a reasonable assessment of 
a customers credit worthiness. This includes an assessment of the risk that the customer 
will not be able to make repayments in a sustainable manner. One element of this is that it 
must consider the ability of the customer to make repayments without borrowing further in 
order to do so. 
 
Mrs C feels that Oakfield did not do this and says that she was using one payday loan to pay 
another, and that because of this, lending without robust checks was irresponsible.
I can see that Oakfield Finance assessed Mrs Cs credit risk. Although Miss C had defaulted 
on her borrowing in the past, it took account of her recent credit history. It noted that her 
current borrowing was up to date and decided that it was willing to lend to her. This is a 
legitimate commercial decision that it is entitled to make. 
Mrs C has pointed out that she was using one payday loan to pay off another. With this in 
mind, I have considered whether a reasonable assessment of her borrowing pattern would 
reasonably suggest that she would not be able to repay her loan with Oakfield Finance 
without borrowing further.  
I can see that on some occasions, she used a new loan to pay off an existing debt and that 
on others she may have taken out a new loan shortly after paying off an existing debt. But I 
can also see that she was maintaining all her payments on her current loans. Mrs C said the 
purpose of the loan was to consolidate her debts. Using Mrs Cs credit report, Oakfield 
Finance made a calculation of what this might mean using a reasonable example. The 
example assumed that Mrs C would use the new loan to pay off two particular loans. Using 
these assumptions, Mrs Cs net monthly disposable income after the loan would increase by 
£64, and she would have a monthly disposable income of £698.17. Taking account of this, I 
dont think that Mrs Cs borrowing history of itself would lead to the conclusion that she 
would have to borrow further to make the new loan payments.
Oakbrook Finance has assessed Mrs Cs credit commitments and income and concluded 
that it believes the loan was affordable. But it has not assessed Mrs Cs other essential 
expenditure. CONC requires lenders to make a reasonable assessment of the customers  
non-discretionary expenditure  . But I think that if a reasonable assessment of Mrs Cs 
income and commitments suggests that Mrs C could repay the loan in a sustainable manner, 
it means that the decision to lend was the right outcome, even though the process had some 
shortcomings. In that case, I would not ask Oakfield Finance to do anything.
I have to decide whether the evidence suggested that Mrs C could repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. The loan was for £3000 over a 24 month period. Mrs C said the loan 
was for debt consolidation, so it is fair and reasonable to expect that this would happen, and 
from what I can see it did. The loan cleared Mrs Cs overdraft, and a loan that was on her 
credit file. It also funded a payment to another lender. So I dont think it was putting her in a 
worse position. Although this wasnt the exact basis of Oakbrook Finances calculation, the calculation was fair and reasonable, so I am using the disposable income of £698.17 in my 
calculations.
The sum of £698.17 is what Mrs C would have had to cover her other essential costs after 
making her loan and mortgage payments. It is up to lenders to decide what information they 
use to estimate essential costs, and they can use statistical data. But the only evidence I 
have available to me is Mrs Cs bank statements, so that is what I have used to estimate the 
amount her other essential spending. I have taken account of council tax, insurance, energy, 
phones, petrol and other regular payments that appear likely to be binding commitments. I 
estimate these to amount to around £400, which would leave around £300 for food and other 
essentials.  
I think if Oakbrook Finance had based their decision to offer the loan on this calculation, as 
well as its assessment of the credit risk, it would have been fair and reasonable for it to 
conclude that the loan was repayable in a sustainable manner. Because of this, I will not be 
asking Oakbrook Finance to do anything.
I understand that Mrs C will be disappointed with this decision. But having taken account of 
her financial position at the time of her application, a reasonable assessment shows that the 
loan was repayable in a sustainable way. So even though Oakfield Finance did not do 
enough to assess the affordability of the loan, the lending itself is not irresponsible. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman