DRN-1246158
 
Complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) in 2002.
Background
Mr B took out a loan with Nationwide in 2002 with a four year term. He was sold a single 
premium PPI policy at the same time in connection with this loan during a phonecall.
The PPI would have covered Mr Bs loan repayments if he was off work sick for the 
remaining term of the loan and for up to 12 months per claim if he lost his job. The policy 
would also have paid the outstanding loan amount in the unfortunate event of Mr Bs death.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr B didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive checked whether Mr B was eligible under the policy. Based on what Mr B has 
told us about his age, employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr B 
would have been eligible.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr B that the PPI was optional and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to his account. Mr B says he wasnt aware that he had been sold 
PPI.
There is no call recording or transcript of the sale. This is understandable given the length of 
time since the sale. But what this does mean is that I cant know for sure what took place 
during the sale. So Ive thought about what Mr B and Nationwide have told us and looked to 
the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have 
happened.
Nationwide have explained their sales process and they say that the loan and PPI would 
have been discussed on the phone. Following this if Mr B requested PPI it would appear on 
the credit agreement that followed otherwise it wouldnt have. I have been provided with a 
copy of the credit agreement from the time of the sale. And I can see that PPI appeared on 
this agreement and did so under the heading optional credit insurance. If Mr B had 
changed his mind about the PPI then this would have provided him with a further opportunity to tell Nationwide that he didnt want it. But by signing the credit agreement with the PPI as 
an optional extra, Mr B agreed to take it out.
So all in all, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think the PPI was presented as optional and 
was added to the account because Mr B chose to take it out when he signed the agreement. 
Of course its understandable that Mr B may now not remember this given how long ago the 
sales took place.
There has been some dispute about the reason Mr B took the loan out. In his PPI 
questionnaire, Mr B has said that he took the loan out to buy a car. However, his 
representatives have since said that Mr B took the loan out for consolidation/refinancing 
purposes and that he was therefore vulnerable and shouldnt have been sold single premium 
PPI.
I have not seen any evidence which supports the statement that Mr B took the loan out for 
consolidation. The PPI questionnaire provides consolidation/refinancing as one of the 
options when asking the purpose of the loan. Despite this, Mr B ticked the option which said 
that he took the loan to buy a car. No explanation has been provided for why Mr B, through 
his representatives, now says that the loan was to consolidate debts. Further, if the loan had 
been for consolidation/refinancing then I would have expected to see details of the accounts 
that were being consolidated on the credit agreement because there was a specific place for 
this on the agreement. But I note that the agreement is blank in this part. So all in all, I cant 
say its more likely that the reason Mr B took the loan out was to consolidate his debts.
But even if Mr B did take the loan to consolidate his debts, this is not something which 
Nationwide would have needed to check because I havent seen any evidence that would 
suggest that Nationwide recommended PPI to Mr B such that they wouldve needed to take 
steps to check if PPI was suitable for Mr B. So, for example, they didnt need to take into 
account Mr Bs existing repayment provisions or check whether the PPI was affordable for 
Mr B when selling Mr B PPI.
But Nationwide did have to provide Mr B with clear information so that he could make an 
informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have drawn Mr 
Bs attention to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
I can see the costs were set out clearly in the credit agreement. There was a separate 
column on the credit agreement which detailed the cost of the PPI premium, the interest that 
would be charged on the premium, the total cost of PPI plus interest as well as how much 
this would cost extra per month. So it would have been up to Mr B to consider whether the 
cost of the PPI meant that it wasnt affordable or suitable for him. However, Mr B decided to 
take PPI after seeing the total cost of PPI so it looks like this is something which he wanted 
despite the cost.
But its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr B all the information as they should have about 
the benefits and the main exclusions in the policy at the point at which Mr B chose to take 
PPI. This in itself doesnt mean PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put Mr B off taking PPI.
I dont think knowing about the exclusions would have put Mr B off taking PPI as he doesnt 
appear to have been affected by the main exclusions/restrictions in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a claim.
I also note that the policy would have paid out in addition to any other benefits and savings 
Mr B may have held. For example, Mr B has told us about his employee sick pay. And it 
appears the policy could potentially have paid out for a much longer period of time than his employee sick pay  up to the remaining term of the loan. It would also have paid out for up 
to 12 months if he lost his job. Mr B could have used his savings to help pay towards his 
living expenses while the PPI took care of the loan repayments.
So I dont think better information about the benefits of the policy would have put Mr B off 
taking PPI either.
And although this was a single premium policy, it appears Mr B received a pro-rata refund 
when he cancelled the agreement early. So I dont think better information about the 
cancellation terms would have affected his decision either.
Having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Nationwide mis-sold Mr B this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
 
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman