DRN-3679110
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that, in February 2002, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a 
packaged bank account (PBA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs V had had a bank account with Lloyds for over 20 years. This was a fee free 
account.
In February 2002, the account was changed to a Gold Service packaged bank account. It 
cost £8 per month and came with several benefits. The main two were free worldwide 
travel insurance for the account holders (not their children, except babies) and 
discounted interest rates on loans and overdrafts.
Mr and Mrs V say they were wrongly told they had to have this PBA if they wanted an 
overdraft. They say there were in financial difficulties at the time and needed an 
overdraft.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs V didnt agree, and so the matter was passed to me to 
make a decision.
I reached a similar overall conclusion to that of the adjudicator, but I took into account 
new information, and had slightly different reasoning. I wanted to give everyone the 
chance to comment further before I reached a final decision and so I wrote a provisional 
decision saying the following:
Mr and Mrs V had had a bank account with Lloyds for over 20 years. This was a fee free 
account.
In February 2002, the account was changed to a Gold Service packaged bank 
account. It cost £8 per month and came with several benefits. The main two were free 
worldwide travel insurance for the account holders (not their children, except babies) 
and discounted interest rates on loans and overdrafts.
Mr and Mrs V say they were wrongly told they had to have this PBA if they wanted an 
overdraft. They say there were in financial difficulties at the time and needed an 
overdraft.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs V didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Lloyds has agreed that it advised Mr and Mrs V to take the account. If a bank 
recommends an account, it has to make sure that the advice is appropriate  that there 
will be enough useful aspects of the account for the customer, and that overall it is a good 
fit for their circumstances.
The main insurance benefit in the PBA was the travel insurance. Mr and Mrs V have 
said they werent aware this was a benefit, and that they couldnt have used it 
anyway. Mr V had suffered a serious accident a few years before the account 
started, and also had been diagnosed with a significant chronic illness.
I agree that its unlikely the travel insurance would have been much use to Mr V  he 
may have been unlikely to travel abroad and, if he did, the basic insurance wouldnt 
have covered him for much. Hes likely to have needed to pay a much higher 
premium to have proper cover for his condition. In theory Mrs V could have made 
use of the insurance, but I think it unlikely theyd have thought it worth paying the 
monthly PBA fee for that.
There is one payment in March 2002 to a travel agent. But Mr and Mrs V have 
told me they think this was for one of their children going on a trip.
So Ive thought about whether the other benefits, in particular the reduced interest 
rates, are likely to have attracted Mr and Mrs V; and whether these would have made 
the Gold Service account worth having. From what Ive been able to work out, I think it 
probably was worth having.
I asked Lloyds to tell me how much, if anything, Mr and Mrs V would have saved 
from preferential interest rates. I wanted to compare this to the £8 per month fee 
they were paying.
Lloyds said that Mrs V took out a loan for £10,000 in February 2002. This was four days 
after the account was changed to the Gold account. The loan was for 5 years and at an 
interest rate of 10.43%.
Lloyds said they didnt now know how this preferential 10.43% interest rate compared to 
the normal rates it would have charged Mrs V, if she hadnt had the Gold account. 
However, I have found some information from the time, from an independent internet 
resource called web.archive.org. This is commonly known as the Wayback Machine 
and keeps snapshots of websites as they appear at different times over the years.
I looked at a snapshot which it says was taken in February 2002. This was at:
https://web.archive.org/web/20011206111504/http: /www.lloydstsb.com/rates/bo
rrowi ng_rates/0,1016,general,00.html#360241
This is showing an interest rate (which it says is correct as of 05/02/2001) of 14.0 % 
for Gold Service Loans of £10,000; and an interest rate of 15.9% for personal loans 
without one of Lloyds packaged bank accounts. I think this gives a reasonable 
indication of the likely differences between the types of loan on offer to Mrs V in 2002.
By my calculation, the payments on the 15.9% loan would have been about £25 per 
month higher than the level of the actual 10.43% loan Mrs V was able to have with 
the Gold account. So, even with the monthly £8 account fee, she would still have 
been saving money. If theyd also had an overdraft, Mr and Mrs V would have saved a little more on top of this too.I cant know exactly what Lloyds told Mr and Mrs V at 
the time. But I think its most likely Lloyds said that taking the Gold account would be 
a good idea if Mr and Mrs V wanted an overdraft or loan. The fact that the loan 
happened so soon after the account was changed, strongly suggests there was a link 
between the two events.
So my current view is that the recommendation to take the account was an appropriate 
one, and that the account wasnt mis-sold.
In response, Lloyds said it had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs V didnt send me any 
comments or information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Im not upholding this complaint and so 
wont be requiring Lloyds to take any further action. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman