DRN-1825830
 
The complaint
 Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) applied penalties for 
closing her savings accounts, even though shed repeatedly asked about this and been told 
there were no penalties. 
What happened
Mrs H said she went to Halifax to close four savings accounts. She said a family member 
was with her. That family member has also supported her in this complaint, but this remains 
Mrs Hs complaint, so Ill address her throughout.
Mrs H said that her family member asked if there were any penalty clauses on the accounts, 
and was told no. So she closed the four accounts she had at the branch. She said she was 
very distressed later to find that interest payments had been deducted from two of the 
accounts. She wouldnt have closed those accounts if shed realised that. 
Mrs H said that her family member helped her to complain to Halifax. The call took an hour 
and a half. Mrs H wanted the interest that had been lost repaid to her. She wanted a refund 
of the call cost. And she wanted compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
Halifax said that interest had been deducted from two of Mrs Hs four accounts, which were 
fixed rate, fixed term accounts. Halifax said it had asked the branch, and a member of 
branch staff had confirmed he'd told Mrs H about the penalties. Halifax also said that a 
manager was present during the conversation, who had also confirmed that Mrs H was told 
about the penalties. Halifax said these interest deductions were set out in the terms of these 
two accounts. It wouldnt make a refund. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said there was no physical 
recording of what had happened. The only evidence was the testimony of each party and the 
complaint notes that Halifax had on file. He didnt think that the evidence he had was strong 
enough to cause him to overturn the decision Halifax had made. And he said another reason 
was that the terms of the account do detail the information about the loss of interest. Halifax 
had confirmed that Mrs H agreed to these when she opened the accounts. 
Our investigator appreciated that Mrs H felt strongly about this, and thought Halifax staff 
were just lying. Mrs H felt Halifax should provide proof that the conversation about penalties 
did take place. Mrs H also said that it was more likely that if shed been told about the 
penalties, she wouldnt have taken this money out. But our investigator said Mrs H had told 
us she was changing banks for practical reasons, so he didnt think there was enough 
evidence for him to make a judgment on whether the interest deductions wouldve affected 
Mrs Hs decision at that time. He said because those deductions were applied in line with the 
terms of the accounts, he would need to see strong evidence that Mrs H was misled in 
branch, to the point that overrules those terms and conditions. He said that he wasnt able to 
overturn the banks decision on the evidence available to him. Mrs H wanted her case to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
This is, as our investigator said, a difficult case, because theres no direct physical 
evidence of what happened. Mrs H is clear that her family member asked about 
penalties for closing her savings accounts, and was told there werent any. Halifaxs 
staff are equally clear that Mrs H was told about the loss of interest if she closed the 
two fixed term, fixed interest accounts before the end of heir terms. I have to decide 
whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Halifax has told us it has a script for when its closing accounts like the two fixed term 
accounts Mrs H had. It said this was read out, and a branch manager had overheard 
the conversation, so could confirm that. Its confident it didnt do anything wrong. And 
its shown us the terms for these accounts, which set out that if the accounts are 
closed before the end of the fixed term, then no interest will be paid for the last 270 
days for her three year fixed term account, and no interest will be paid for the last 365 
days of her five year fixed term account. 
Mrs H says that she signed the relevant documents in the branch, but accepts she 
didnt read it at the time. She also said that she was given paperwork in the branch, 
which confirmed that some interest had been deducted, but because of time 
constraints, she didnt read that paperwork until later. 
In Mrs Hs letter to us, she said that I can accept getting no interest, but not 
penalties. But I think that what Halifax has done could fairly be described as getting 
no interest. 
Halifax has provided that if Mrs Hs two fixed term accounts are closed before the end 
of their terms, they wont have any interest paid for the last months before the money 
was withdrawn. Because Mrs H has referred to being able to accept getting no 
interest, I think that its more likely than not that this was explained to her. I dont know 
whether Mrs H had realised that this would mean that any interest that had been paid 
recently into her three-year or five-year bond might be clawed back by Halifax. 
I cant be sure what was said in the branch. But what Mrs H has said makes me think 
that its more likely than not that Halifax did do enough to draw to Mrs Hs attention 
that she would not be paid interest for the last months that shed held her fixed term 
accounts. For those reasons, I dont think that Halifax needs to repay this money to 
Mrs H now.
I know Mrs H will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Halifax accepted my decision. Mrs H remained unhappy, but she said she didnt have any 
more to add.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman