DRN-3917137
The complaint
Mr W complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2018.
Burley Financial Services Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to BFS.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ws employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr W was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to BFS 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr W was 45 years old, married and with two dependent children. Mr and Mrs W 
owned their own home with a 16-year mortgage outstanding.
Mr W was described as being in good health and working full-time in the steel 
industry. Mrs W was also working. They earned around £32,000 and £15,000 per 
year respectively. After expenses he and Mrs W had some reasonable disposable 
income left over each month. They had joint savings of £12,000 and no other major 
assets or liabilities.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ws BSPS was approximately 
£273,167. Hed accrued over 20 years service. The normal retirement age (NRA) 
was 65.
Mr W had also joined the new TATA Steel defined contribution (DC) pension scheme 
as a consequence of the BSPS closing to ongoing contributions.
BFS set out its advice in a suitability report on 9 January 2018. In this it advised Mr W to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan managed 
for him by a discretionary fund manager (DFM). BFS said this would allow Mr W to achieve 
his objectives. Mr W accepted this advice and so transferred out.
In 2022 Mr W complained to BFS about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out to a personal pension but the business didnt uphold the complaint. Mr W then 
referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint and 
said it should be upheld. In response, BFS still says it hasnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr W had at the time. BFS also says that even if the 
complaint were to be upheld, Mr W hasnt lost any money by transferring. It says this is 
because his pension, after it was transferred, has since grown in value.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of BFS's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, BFS should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ws best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ws best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from BFS. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses made to 
the points contained within our investigators view.Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Introductory issues
Id like to start by referring to the timeline of events. Ive already described above how 
members of the BSPS were given until 22 December 2017 to decide whether or not to join 
the BSPS2. We know that if no choice was made then the member would eventually move to 
the PPF if they didnt transfer away to a personal pension type arrangement. 
However, I can see that BFS had started engaging with Mr W before the deadline mentioned 
above. For example, I note there was a remuneration agreement between BFS and Mr W 
which was signed by him on 12 December 2017. A fact-find exercise appears to have been 
completed on the same day. Even before this, on 6 December 2017, BFS commissioned a 
pension transfer analysis document (TVAS).  I therefore think the advice process was 
substantially underway in December 2017 with BFS committing substantial resources to 
analysing Mr Ws financial situation and a firm commitment to advising him about whether or 
not to transfer his DB pension. And at the very least, BFS could and should therefore have 
reinforced the deadline issue of 22 December 2017 to Mr W and he could have signed up for 
the BSPS2, even if only as a precautionary measure. It could have advised Mr W that hed 
have still been able to change his mind and hed have been able to later transfer to a 
personal pension arrangement if the advice showed this was suitable for him.
Financial viability 
BFS referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. And in 
my view, these all point one way  that if looked at through the prism of 2018, Mr W was 
probably going to receive lower pension benefits overall, as a result of transferring to a type 
of personal pension plan.
The critical yield required to match the existing benefits at the age of 65 in the BSPS2, was 
6.47% if Mr W took a full pension without a tax-free lump sum. If taking a tax-free lump sum, 
the critical yield was 5.05%. However, BFS also calculated the critical yield rates for an 
earlier retirement, at the age of 60. It did this because Mr W had apparently expressed a 
desire to retire early. I explain more about this issue later. But for the age of 60, which BFS 
was clearly using as a target retirement age here, the critical yields came out at 8.37% (no 
tax-free cash) and 6.52% (with tax free cash) respectively. 
BFS acknowledged that achieving the critical yields would be ambitious because it said they 
were highespecially when you consider the Bank of England Base Rate has been 0.5% 
for the last 6 years. The report also said it wasnt generally the firms policy to recommend 
transfers from a DB scheme when the critical yields were over 6% because growth of that 
level was likely to be unachievable. But it seems to me that BFS overrode its own rules by 
advising Mr W to transfer mainly on what it said were flexibility reasons. I think it also 
attempted to persuade Mr W that the critical yields didnt matter.
However, its important to reiterate that publishing the critical yield rates was a requirement 
at the time. And the advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 
similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given was only 4.4% per year for 
16 years to retirement (age 65), which is below all of the critical yield figures Ive referred to 
above. For a retirement at the apparent target age of 60, the discount rate was only 4.2%. 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2% although these hadnt 
been updated for some time and we were in a period then of low interest rates and low bond 
yields. So, if anything, projected returns would realistically be lower. 
BFS initially used some prepopulated forms to assess Mr Ws attitude to risk (ATR). These 
produced a category for him as being a moderately adventurous risk investor. But I think 
this was too high and so did the adviser as they paired this category down to moderately 
cautious. The evidence Ive seen shows Mr W was not a risk taker and he didnt like the 
idea of his capital, if transferred to a fund, going down as well as up. Its clear Mr W had no 
experience of wider share-buying or money market investments more commonly found in 
personally managed pensions and so he had no past experience to draw upon. Ive taken 
into account that he had a new TATA DC pension. However, theres no evidence the 
investment approach for this was anything other than an off the shelf strategy which 
involved no direct input from Mr W.
I therefore dont think the adviser had enough information or evidence to recommend 
transferring away from a DB scheme based on a financial comparison basis. I think this 
should have raised concerns and shown that transferring could see Mr W getting lower 
retirement benefits in the longer-term. Growth assumptions close to the regulators lower-
end projections and also to the discount rate were most relevant here in my view. So, I think 
growth assumptions of around 3 to 4 % were realistic here. So overall, I think that achieving 
the stated critical yield(s), year-on-year, upon transferring out, was unlikely. 
Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, BFSs own transfer analysis said that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by 
the existing scheme, the estimated fund required (also known as the capital value) was 
£590,652. Even to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated 
benefits provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no increases in 
payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required at 65 was £343,265. 
To reiterate, these figures are found in BFSs own analysis based on data the regulator 
required businesses to refer to at the time. And because these figures are far above Mr Ws 
CETV, they represent, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed 
pension Mr W could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan, rather than a 
similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, BFS also made mention of the PPF, which it described as 
a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the sponsoring 
employer becomes insolvent. Its fair to say the critical yields to match the benefits available 
through the PPF at age 65 were lower. But these yields would be related to the reduced 
benefits available with the PPF and BFS itself says Mr W wouldnt have wanted to transfer to 
this scheme. Its also important to remember here that the effect of charges and fees 
associated with a personal pension such as the one being recommended to Mr W, would 
have further reduced the likely growth. Ive also considered some projections BFS used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr W well into retirement. I think most of these were 
based on growth projections which were based on past performance. Its also fair to say 
these were not comparing like-with-like. What BFS was showing Mr W were comparisons 
with plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. And some of the 
scenarios showed him running out of funds at a certain age whereas his DB pension was 
guaranteed for life.
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, BFSs own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr W would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term. 
Of course, according to BFS, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. Rather, 
BFS said Mr W also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other 
considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the 
overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other reasons to transfer
BFS recommended a transfer to a personal pension plan based on what it said were Mr Ws 
wider objectives. What the adviser was trying to do was show that Mr W had a need for a 
flexible income, rather than a fixed one as provided by a DB scheme. But overall I dont think 
any credible case for a flexible income was made out by the adviser. The case for this was 
predominately based on the implication that Mr W might want to take a different income at 
certain points in the future and that this might be influenced by when his and Mrs Ws state 
pension kicked in. 
The suitability report and other documents give a flavour of what issues Mr W considered to 
be important to his pension thinking at the time:
He would like to be able to access his pension benefits at the age of 60 and fully 
retire,
He would like tax-free cash at age 60 and to reduce or fully redeem his mortgage 
liability.
He wanted to ensure that he was able to access benefits flexibility.
In providing its recommendation rationale, the adviser added the following themes:
He had no need for a spouses pension
The DB scheme was in a precarious position as it was underfunded.
The TVAS had confirmed he could have a comparable pension by transferring away 
from a DB scheme and the post-retirement benefits would be greater.
There would be a higher tax-free cash element within a personal pension plan. 
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. General points
I think a number of these themes and comments were misleading and the adviser should 
have been much clearer with Mr D. In fact, there was no evidence that Mr D could purchase 
a similar pension in the marketplace more economically because the evidence Ive shown 
above clearly shows that at the time this just wasnt true. The adviser also used the hurdle 
rate when referring to growth but again, this wasnt comparing like-with-like and it was 
replacing the harder to reach critical yield rates, with a much lower yield.
As for the high CETV, I accept that low bond yields in the market had produced a 
historically unusual environment for DB pensions which generally saw CETVs rising to 
values where consumers, like Mr W, might have considered high. But this needed to be 
looked at in context. In particular, it needed to be remembered that buying a similar pension 
to replace the DB scheme at that time was also very high. As Ive said, we were also in a 
period of sustained low interest rates which seemed to be persisting for many years at that 
time, so I dont think there was any persuasive evidence in this case that the high CETV 
issue was one which ought to have been used to irreversibly transfer away Mr W from a DB 
scheme.
Retiring early, flexibility and control
When issuing the suitability report and the recommendation to transfer away from the DB 
scheme, BFS said Mr W wanted to retire around the age of 60. BFS said transferring and 
using his pension flexibly would enable him to draw more of an income in certain years, to 
support him through the earlier stages of retirement, to pay off his mortgage and to get much 
more flexibility.
However, I think its important to focus for a moment on Mr Ws age. He was still only 45 
years of age and in good health. By pension standards this is still relatively young and in my 
view, however much Mr W might have aspired to retire early, the simple fact was that these 
were not concrete retirement plans. So, I think Mr W could only have really expressed an 
interest in retiring early. I say this because as well as being only aged 45 himself, Ive noted 
Mrs W was only 38. They also had two young children aged only seven and four years old 
and they had a mortgage with16 years still to run. I therefore believe that Mr and Mrs W still 
faced many of the challenges and opportunities that commonly arise from being mid-life, 
mid-career and bringing up a young family. 
I accept Mr W probably went into the advice sessions with an idea of what sounded good. 
However, he wasnt the regulated party here and he certainly wasnt experienced in these 
matters. BFSs job wasnt to simply transact what Mr W  a somewhat uninformed amateur - 
might have thought was a good idea. BFS was being substantially paid for the advice and so 
its job was to provide advice that was right for him. And I think the discussions on a 
retirement at the age of 60 were premature. Mr W was too young to be able to accurately 
say what his retirement needs would yet be.
Even if I were to consider these plans were more than the mere aspirations Ive mentioned 
above, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr W required changing how his retirement benefits 
ought to be paid. I say this because I cant see that the adviser really assessed what level of 
retirement income Mr W would need when he stopped working. Im not surprised at this 
because, as Ive said, retirement was still such a long way off for Mr W. But if the adviser 
and Mr W couldnt yet say what his retirement income needs would be, then he shouldnt 
have been advised to transfer away from a guaranteed DB scheme.
We know that the estimates in the TVAS and suitability report showed Mr W could have a 
known retirement if he remained in a DB scheme. He was told, for instance, that an income of around £17,795 per year at the age of 65 would be possible, or £14,592 per year if retiring 
at 60. Different estimates were also provided if Mr W opted to take a tax-free lump sum upon 
retiring and these lump sums could have been up to £78,600 depending on what he chose to 
do. These were BSPS figures, because the adviser didnt appear to know that BSPS2 
figures had been available for some weeks by that point. Nevertheless, I still think the above 
broadly represents the type of retirement income Mr W could expect if he opted into the 
BSPS2 scheme; similar estimates were also provided for him moving to the PPF. 
So, the point Im making here is that I dont think there was ever anything properly showing 
that Mr Ws pension entitlements in either the BSPS2 or the PPF wouldnt have met his 
income requirements when retiring. And so there wasnt any compelling reason for him to 
transfer away and into a personal pension arrangement. BFS hasnt provided any evidence 
to say he would have struggled to live on these sums and the adviser didnt appear to get 
into the detail of what pension(s) or income Mrs W might have still had when her husband 
eventually retired. Given she was seven years younger, I think there could have been every 
possibility that she would still have been employed and earning if Mr W did indeed retire at 
60.
Ive also read in the suitability report that the adviser noted Mr W apparently wanted to 
reduce or fully redeem his mortgage liability which will free up income in retirement. 
However, I think this demonstrates the poor advice because even if Mr W managed to retire 
at 60, it appears his mortgage would be almost entirely paid off. I therefore think this is a 
good example of the types of stock objectives used by the adviser to justify the transfer-
away recommendation.
Overall, I think Mr Ws circumstances here were much more aligned to him moving to 
BSPS2 and retiring from that scheme when he felt he was ready to do so. The evidence 
pointed to him still being able to retire perhaps a little earlier than 65 if he felt he really 
needed to  there would have been an actuarial reduction involved, depending on his age at 
the time. But because he also had signed up to the new TATA DC pension which would 
have many contributions yet to be applied in the years ahead, this supported that strategy in 
my view. 
All this means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr W wouldnt want to continue membership 
of a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, 
I think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr W could have been in an 
agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing deferred DB scheme of meaningful 
value. This would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring 
which tend to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation 
guarantees also existed within BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On 
the other hand, hed have also built up a DC scheme over a reasonable period of time  up 
to 19 years (even over 14 years if retiring early). So, if Mr W ever found he needed so-called 
flexibility, then hed be able to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr W had either the capacity or desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr W was being offered the opportunity to transfer to 
the new BSPS2. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the 
original BSPS, but it remained a DB scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. 
Mr W himself had absolutely no experience of these types of money market investments 
and I think he would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing his 
transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr W 
would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost him 
money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
Death benefits Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr W died. Various useful benefits existed pre-accessing 
the pension and also post-accessing the pension. Mr W was married and had children so I 
think the benefits found in BSPS2 would have been of great value and reassurance. It wasnt 
clearly set out the level of pension of her own Mrs W had. But she was employed and had 
her own career, so I think its reasonable to say shed have had a personal pension which 
would have been relevant to their overall resources upon considering retirement. 
I think the adviser told Mr W that hed be able to pass on the whole value of a personal 
pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone that he nominated. So the lump sum death benefits 
on offer through a personal pension were probably made to look like an attractive feature to 
Mr W. But this needed carefully explaining. Whilst I appreciate death benefits are important 
to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea to transfer the BSPS to a 
personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise him about what was best 
for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
And I dont think BFS explored to what extent Mr W was prepared to accept a lower 
retirement income in exchange for different death benefits.
Mr W was only 45. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death benefits is that the 
amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner starts to 
withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr W had lived a long life there could 
be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. 
Although Ive questioned the ability to forecast an early retirement whilst still so young, 
theres no real doubt that retiring at 60 was at least mentioned  BFSs defence of this 
complaint is partially predicated on this. The adviser should have therefore additionally 
known that a male retiring at 60 would likely have quite a few years ahead in which he would 
be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving very little left to pass on to someone. It also 
doesnt appear that BFS took into account the fact that Mr W could have nominated a 
beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme. 
I note life insurance was discussed in this case. However, the adviser quoted a 'whole life 
policy matching the CETV from day one and at over £250 per month this was clearly very 
expensive. But at 45 years old and in good health, a modest term life insurance policy may 
have still been a reasonably affordable product if Mr W really did want to leave a large 
legacy for a specific relative or someone else in the form of a lump sum, rather than an 
annual pension. So, to this end, Mr W already had plenty of options ensuring part of his 
pension wouldnt die with him.
I think BFS also promoted to Mr W that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred 
to a personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum 
and then use the remaining funds more flexibly and in a personal pension the lump-sum 
would be much higher. But again, this needed a careful explanation. 
Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when 
compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes 
are calculated differently. But BFS should have been telling Mr W at the time that extra tax-
free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, as early as from the age of 55 in 
his case, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years 
would obviously decrease. I also cant see there was a need for substantially more tax-free 
cash. 
Overall, I think flexibility would have sounded positive to Mr W. However, I cant see that he 
and Mrs W required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. In any event, flexibility was poorly defined by BFS. Ive seen nothing that showed Mr W required changing 
how his retirement benefits ought to be paid at the point he was seeking the advice.  
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr W, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and BFS 
said he lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about the PPF and BFS 
said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr W was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was BFSs obligation to give Mr W an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated any concerns about the scheme 
moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that BFS should 
have reassured Mr W that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought. The income available to Mr W through the PPF would have still probably provided a 
significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement, and he was still 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given his attitude to risk and the effect 
of pension charges and fees. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, 
the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think 
that these concerns should have led to BFSs recommendation to Mr W to transfer out of the 
DB scheme altogether.
Use of a DFM and suitability of investments
BFS recommended that Mr W invest his funds in a personal pension and use a DFM to 
manage them. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for Mr W and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of 
the scheme if clear advice had been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the 
suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because he should have been advised 
to remain in the DB scheme and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. 
He was giving up the opportunity of a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the 
BSPS2 and by transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr W was likely to 
obtain lower retirement benefits. 
I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. The adviser portrayed the BSPS2 and PPF in a negative dimension and 
implied that Mr W wouldnt be able to meet his retirement objectives unless he transferred 
away. However, as Ive showed, I dont think this was right. Mr W didnt need the flexibility 
BFS said he needed and in any event, this was poorly defined. I think BFS ought to have 
advised him against transferring out of his DB scheme for these reasons.I dont think it was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer away from his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
In my view, the adviser hadnt comprehensively researched details of the BSPS2. But I think 
it was clear by the time BFS started to advise Mr W that the BSPS2 was likely to be going 
ahead. He also still had quite a few years before he intended to retire and there were no 
indications that he wouldnt be able to have a reasonable retirement income which met his 
needs without transferring to a personal pension arrangement.
I don't think that it would have been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would have faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. By opting into the BSPS2, Mr W would have 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under 
the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think BFS should have advised Mr W to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr W would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that BFS disclosed some of the risks 
of transferring to Mr W, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately 
it advised Mr W to transfer out, and I think Mr W relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr W would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against BFSs advice. I say this because Mr W was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if BFS had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. So if BFS had explained Mr W was also unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could probably meet his 
income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that would have 
carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I think BFS should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for BFSs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd 
been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age 
of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. BFS should use the benefits 
offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
BFS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. BFS should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and our Service upon completion of 
the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, BFS should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts BFSs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, BFS may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Burley 
Financial Services Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Burley Financial Services Limited pays Mr W the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If Mr W accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Burley Financial 
Services Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman