DRN-2023460
The complaint
Miss W complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) acted irresponsibly when increasing 
her credit card limit over a number of years. 
What happened
Miss W holds a credit card account with Barclays and over a number of years it increased 
her credit card limit. Miss W says that Barclays shouldnt have agreed the increases being 
aware she had two county court judgements (ccjs) against her and had only paid the 
minimum payments to her credit card account during this time. Miss W is looking for 
Barclays to refund all interest and charges made to her credit card account, plus statutory 
interest as well as amending her credit file accordingly. 
Barclays says that the increases were requested by Miss W and these met their criteria and 
the operation of the credit card account was acceptable. Barclays says they were aware of a 
ccj but the modest nature of this didnt affect their decision to lend at the time and Miss W 
hadnt notified them of any financial difficulties. Barclays says that once they became aware 
of Miss Ws financial difficulties, they offered support and have agreed a repayment plan.  
Barclays dont feel they have done anything wrong as her account met their lending criteria 
at the time and appropriate lending checks were carried out when increases to her credit 
limit were made. 
Miss W wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the available information but didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint and 
mentioned that part of the complaint was outside our jurisdiction because of time restraints. 
When looking at the period of time we could consider the investigator felt Barclays took 
reasonable steps when assessing the credit card limit increases Miss W applied for at the 
time. 
Miss W wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I should begin by saying, as the investigator points out, this service isnt able to consider 
every complaint thats referred to us. Before we investigate a complaint, we must first make 
sure that we have the ability to do so under the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) that apply 
to us. 
The relevant section of the rules here is DISP 2.8.2. This section explains whether the 
complaint has been referred to this service in time. It says:-
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
 more than: 
 (a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought reasonably 
to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
As a result, we can only look at the complaint from September 2013 as Barclays havent 
given us consent to look at events prior to that date. With regards to the three years referred 
to above I agree with the investigator that Miss W would have been aware she had cause to 
complain given she was in receipt of regular monthly credit card statements during this time, 
evidencing the level of borrowing she had. 
So, when considering this complaint, I will look at whether Barclays acted irresponsibly when 
agreeing to the credit card limit increases from September 2013. 
I was sorry to hear of the breakdown of Miss Ws relationship and this must have been a 
worrying and stressful time for her and this, no doubt, would have formed part of the reason 
for her being unable to meet all of  her financial commitments. From the information I have 
seen it was around this time that Miss W informed Barclays of her financial problems.
Miss W says that Barclays should have been aware she was experiencing financial 
difficulties much earlier on, bearing in mind she had ccjs lodged against her and was only 
making minimum payments to her credit card account most months. I can understand Miss 
Ws point here but from the information I have seen Miss W made the applications for the 
credit card limit increases for plausible reasons. 
I have also looked at the credit card account operation for the period in question and these 
seem to show that the credit card account was maintained within the credit card limit for the 
vast majority of the time - only on two occasions in 2014 and one in 2018 showed missed 
payments.
Barclays says that they were aware of a ccj however, the modest nature of this didnt impact 
on their credit approval although it was considered at the time. While Miss W may believe 
this is a key point, it is worth saying that ccjs in itself arent necessarily a sign of financial 
difficulty, for example it can be just a matter of a dispute between two parties. It is also worth 
saying that this would only form part of a lending decision made by Barclays and like all 
banks there are other considerations making up their lending criteria. I am satisfied from the 
information available to me and given how the credit card account had been operated - 
Barclays performed an appropriate and proportionate assessment when approving the 
increases in the credit card limits. Afterall, Miss W did request these increases herself and if she felt these werent appropriate at any time, she could have contacted Barclays sooner 
than she did to discuss her financial situation.  I cant see any evidence to show that Miss W 
ever contacted Barclays to say she was experiencing financial difficulties, until late 2019.  
It is worth noting, since mid - 2018, and post the last increase in Miss Ws credit card 
account limit,  Barclays issued a number of emails to Miss W surrounding persistent debt 
suggesting actions she might want to take and offering the opportunity to discuss her 
options, which is what I would have expected to see as a responsible lender. I am pleased to 
see that a repayment plan has now been agreed.
While Miss W may disagree, I cant see that Barclays should have known that she was 
experiencing financial difficulties before this time and there had been a number of 
opportunities for Miss W to have flagged this with Barclays if she felt that was the case - as I 
have mentioned before. 
While I accept that Miss W will be disappointed with my decision, I cant see that Barclays 
acted irresponsibly when approving the credit card account limit increases and  I wont be 
asking anymore of them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman