DRN-3214218
The complaint
Mr M complains about how London Community Credit Union Limited (LCCU) dealt with a 
transfer of funds into his account from overseas.
What happened
Mr M holds an account with LCCU. On 15 June 2020 Mr Ms relative transferred £165 from 
an overseas account to Mr Ms account. When this sum didnt arrive in Mr Ms account his 
relative transferred a further £115. The second transfer was made on 22 June 2020. But this 
sum didnt credit Mr Ms account either.
Mr M contacted LCCU to query the whereabouts of the money that had been transferred. 
However, it said it couldnt locate the funds. So, Mr M complained. He said he was suffering 
financial hardship as a result of the money not reaching his account; he wanted LCCU to 
resolve his complaint by finding the money and crediting it to his account.
By mid-July 2020, LCCU still hadnt located the missing money. So, Mr M referred his 
complaint to our service where it was considered by our investigator. Following our 
investigators request for LCCUs business file, it credited Mr Ms account with the missing 
funds. But this didnt take place until February 2021.
Our investigator recommended upholding Mr Ms complaint. They didnt think 8 months was 
a reasonable period of time for Mr M to have to wait for the money to credit his account. And 
they thought LCCU should resolve this complaint by paying Mr M 8% interest per annum on 
the funds that had credited his account and £200 compensation to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience hed experienced as a result of the delay.
LCCU didnt respond to our investigators view of this complaint. And Mr M didnt respond 
either. So, Ive been asked to decide on how this complaint should be resolved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr M experienced here. I can see how strongly he 
feels about his complaint and I appreciate the reason why hes brought it to our service. 
Ive read and considered all the information provided by Mr M and LCCU, but Ill concentrate 
my decision on what I think is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
My role is to assess whether I think LCCU made a mistake, or treated Mr M unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and 
LCCU have said, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr M was expecting £165 to credit his account shortly after it was transferred by an 
overseas family member on 15 June 2020. Hes told our service he needed that money to 
pay his rent arrears. Around a week later he was expecting a further sum of £115 to credit 
his account. I understand that Mr M was experiencing financial hardship at the time the 
funds were transferred by his relative. So, I can understand how frustrating and upsetting it 
was for him not to receive the money he was expecting.
LCCU has explained that every customer shares the same account number and sort code. 
Its also informed our service that its process is such that all overseas payments must be 
manually credited to each customers account. 
LCCU has stated that if a payment isnt correctly referenced it will credit its holding account 
until it receives proof of payment at which point it credits the correct customers account. And 
it said that this can cause a delay in the funds being correctly allocated. Its said this is what 
happened here.
Ive seen bank receipts showing that Mr Ms relative transferred £280 from their account on 
the dates mentioned above. I can see they used the correct account number and sort code 
for each transfer. They also stated Mr Ms name as the beneficiarys account name. Im 
satisfied, on the thrust of the available evidence, that LCCU was provided with the 
information it required by Mr Ms relative to enable it to allocate the funds it received to his 
account.
As Ive set out in the background to this complaint, the funds werent allocated to Mr Ms 
account until February 2021. This was around 8 months after the funds had been transferred 
even though Mr M has stated that he made LCCU aware that the funds were missing in June 
2020, which is substantiated by the complaint he made the following month. I think Mr M 
took all the action he could to ask LCCU to locate the missing funds.
Ive considered whether LCCU made reasonable attempts to locate the funds once it was 
aware the money hadnt reached the Mr M. 
When payments go missing we expect a business to make reasonable efforts to locate and 
allocate the funds that have been transferred to it. I havent seen any evidence from LCCU 
that demonstrates why it took around 8 months to locate the missing funds and allocate 
them to Mr Ms account. So, I cant fairly conclude that there was a valid reason for the delay 
in the funds crediting Mr Ms account. Its difficult to understand why more couldnt have 
been done by LCCU to resolve this issue earlier for Mr M  particularly given the financial 
difficulties he was experiencing. For these reasons, Im upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
Ive thought carefully about the impact all of this had on Mr M. I invited him to provide 
evidence showing any loss, charges or penalties he incurred as a result of not having access 
to the funds for such a long period of time. But he hasnt responded. Ive therefore got to 
base my assessment on the trouble and upset Mr M, most likely, experienced on the limited 
information hes provided our investigator and what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
overall circumstances. 
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked LCCU to pay 
compensation for the trouble and upset Mr M was caused. I can see that our investigator has recommended that LCCU compensate Mr M in the sum of £200. This amount is within the 
compensation range for the category that this service would describe as moderate. I think 
thats a fair description of the difficulties Mr M had here based on the available information. 
In the overall circumstances, Im satisfied that the £200 trouble and upset award 
recommended by our investigator is a reasonable amount, which is in line with our approach 
in similar scenarios. I havent seen any evidence indicating that a higher award is warranted 
here.
Like our investigator, Im also persuaded that it would be fair for LCCU to pay 8% simple 
interest per annum on the transfers from the date they were made until the date the money 
credited Mr Ms account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. London Community Credit Union Limited 
should do the following to resolve this complaint:
 Pay Mr M £200 compensation; 
 Pay interest of 8% simple a year on £280 from the dates the funds were transferred until 
the date the money credited Mr Ms account. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires London Community Credit Union Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. London Community Credit Union Limited must give Mr M a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off it he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman