DRN-4096054
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs R have complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined their claim 
after there was an escape of water at their holiday home.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs R own a holiday home, at which they regularly spend time throughout the 
year.  They bought buildings and contents cover for this from Aviva.
At the end of 2022, Mr P and Mrs R arrived at their property to find there had been an 
escape of water from an upstairs water tank.  This had caused extensive damage, including 
the collapse of the ceiling to the floor below.  Mr P and Mrs R submitted a claim to Aviva.
Aviva started investigating the claim.  During the investigation, they found the property had 
been empty for 10 days between visits.  A neighbour had walked past regularly with their 
dog but hadnt gone inside.  So the damage remained undiscovered until Mr P and Mrs R 
returned.
Aviva said this had breached the condition on Mr Ps and Mrs Rs policy which required the 
property to be inspected at least once every seven days.  So they declined the claim.  Mr P 
and Mrs R appealed against Avivas decision.  They said that the term inspect hadnt been 
defined in the policy.  They felt it should have been.
Aviva considered the appeal and referred the matter to their underwriters for review but 
didnt change their claim decision.  They said that a neighbour passing by didnt amount to 
inspection as they couldnt see what was going on inside.
Mr P and Mrs R werent satisfied with Avivas response and brought their complaint to our 
service.  Our investigator considered the matter and concluded Aviva didnt need to do any 
more to resolve the complaint.  
The investigator said that, where a word isnt specifically defined in a policy, we apply its 
common everyday meaning.  They looked at a number of definitions, all of which referred to 
looking closely at something.  On that basis, the investigator thought it was reasonable for 
Aviva to have concluded that the neighbour passing by didnt constitute inspection.
Mr P and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ps and Mrs Rs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Firstly, I should explain that its not my role to decide whether or not the claim should be 
settled  rather, its to decide whether, in reaching their conclusion, Aviva have applied the 
terms of their policy in a fair and reasonable way.
The starting point for that is to consider the policy documents provided.  in this case, the 
policy provides cover for a range of risks, including escape of water.  But the detail of how 
the policy terms are to be applied to Mr P and Mrs R is set out in the policy schedule.
The schedule highlights there are special conditions applicable in this case.  The relevant 
condition says:
Unoccupied Property Condition  Central Heating & Regular Visits
It is a condition of this policy that after the home has been left unoccupied for periods 
exceeding 48 hours:
the central heating system is switched on and maintained in operation during the 
period November to March inclusive or the water supply is turned off and the system 
drained
the home is inspected at least every 7 days by a responsible person.
I think that condition is clear.  Mr P and Mrs R dont dispute the condition is on their policy.  
But they say inspect should have been clearly defined.
As our investigator says, where a policy doesnt give a word a specific meaning, we think its 
fair the ordinary, everyday meaning is applied.  And, having looked at several dictionary 
definitions, I agree with their view that the definitions all refer to looking closely at something.
On the basis of what Mr P and Mrs R have said about the inspection  that their neighbour 
regularly walked past the property but didnt go inside - I think it was reasonable for Aviva to 
conclude there hadnt been an inspection as required by the condition.  
In their comments on the investigators view, Mr P and Mrs R also suggested the condition 
requiring inspection every seven days was unduly onerous and more stringent than other 
insurers imposed, and that Aviva hadnt been prejudiced by the lack of an inspection.  Ive 
considered these points but neither have led me to change my mind.
Insurers are entitled to offer policies on whatever terms they wish.  So I cant say a term is 
unfair simply because it is more restrictive than terms offered by other businesses.  Nor can I 
say that the fact that it is onerous means it should be disregarded.
We expect an insurer offering a policy which includes onerous terms to highlight those terms 
to their customer.  Its clear from the transcript of the sales call that Aviva did this and Mr P 
and Mrs R knew of, and accepted, the condition at the time they bought the policy.  It was 
also highlighted in renewal documentation.  So Im satisfied that Aviva did what it needed to 
do in this respect.  
Mr Ps and Mrs Rs other argument is based on their interpretation of the Insurance Act 
2015.  Theyve submitted evidence which they say means Aviva shouldnt have declined 
cover because there was no significant difference between the damage that they found 
when they arrived at their holiday home and the damage they would have found had they 
inspected as required under the policy.
Thats not a determination I can make.  If Mr P and Mrs R want to pursue that point, theyd 
need to do so through the courts.  My role is to decide whether Aviva applied the condition 
fairly and reasonably in this case.  As Ive explained, I think they did.  So I dont think they 
need to do any more to resolve Mr Ps and Mrs Rs complaint.    My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding the complaint Mr P and Mrs R have made 
about Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman