DRN-3787280
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that they were mis-sold a package bank account by Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (Barclays).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were sold a Tech Plus Pack (Tech account) by Barclays in February 2019.
Mr and Mrs H have told us that they have a company car that they use for private use. When 
they attempted to claim for a breakdown in April 2019, under the breakdown section of the 
Tech account their request was declined as they were not covered for their company car.
Mr and Mrs H say when they took the package bank account, they were told that the 
breakdown cover would cover them when driving their own cars, or as a passenger in 
someone elses car.
Mr and Mrs H also say that the terms of the breakdown cover are not clear that their 
circumstances are not covered.
For these reasons Mr and Mrs H say they were mis-sold their Tech account.
One of our adjudicators considered Mr and Mrs Hs complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. As Mr and Mrs H disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available.
From the available information I think its unlikely Barclays advised Mr and Mrs H to take the 
Tech account. I say this because I havent seen any evidence that a tailored 
recommendation took place. This means Barclays didnt have to make sure the account was 
right for Mr and Mrs H, but it did need to give them enough information to decide if the 
account met their circumstances at the time.
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said at the time the Tech account was sold 
to Mr and Mrs H but I think its likely the benefits were discussed and that Mr and Mrs H 
thought the account would be beneficial to them before they agreed to take it. I dont have 
enough evidence to show Mr and Mrs Hs individual car ownership was discussed in relation 
to the terms and conditions. It would have been for Mr and Mrs H to look more closely at the 
terms to see if they met their individual circumstances.
At the time the Tech account was sold to Mr and Mrs H it came with a range of benefits that 
included worldwide family travel insurance, breakdown cover in the UK and Europe, card 
secure, airport lounge access and interest free overdraft limit of up to £200.
While Mr and Mrs H say they had no use of the other benefits that came with their account 
and only took it for the breakdown cover these other benefits remained available for them to 
use if they found a need for them.
Mr and Mrs H were sent a welcome pack after they took the Tech account and an annual 
eligibility statement the following year. Both communications included the terms and 
conditions applicable to the breakdown cover.
Mr and Mrs H say that terms of the policy do not clearly say their company car is not covered 
under the policy when used for private use and the terms refer to commercial vehicles which 
their car is not. So, the terms of the policy have not been applied correctly.
The terms of the policy are applied by the provider of the breakdown cover and the decision 
of whether to provide the breakdown service lies with that provider. I am unable to hold 
Barclays responsible for a decision made by a third-party to decline a service. So, this 
complaint may be better taken up with the provider of the breakdown cover directly.
In addition to the above Mr and Mrs H were declined cover for their breakdown in April 2019, 
just two months after agreeing to the account. Their account could have been downgraded 
at any time, but they continued with it for a further three years. I think this shows Mr and Mrs 
H thought the account offered other benefits outside of the breakdown cover that they may 
have found useful should they have needed to use them.
In summary, I think Mr and Mrs H took out their Tech account on the basis that it met their 
needs at the time of the sale. I dont think Barclays mis-sold them the account. I understand 
Mr and Mrs H feel the terms of the breakdown cover were not correctly or fairly applied to 
the occasion they had a need to claim but this complaint would need to be made to the 
provider of the breakdown cover directly.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman