DRN-4438701
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that a timeshare product was misrepresented to them. The purchase 
was partly financed with credit provided by Vacation Finance Limited  (VFL). Because of 
that, Mr and Mrs S say they have a claim against VFL in the same way they have a claim 
against the timeshare company. 
Mr and Mrs S have been represented in this complaint, and so any reference to their 
submissions and arguments includes those made on their behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have said that they had been timeshare owners since the late 1990s. In 2013 
they swapped their timeshare week (or weeks) in Tenerife through RCI, a timeshare 
exchange programme. They went to Malta and stayed at the Radisson Blu Resort. Following 
a presentation, Mr and Mrs S decided to buy a 2-week timeshare in Malta, together with 
resort membership. This was financed by a loan from a different lender  not VFL. 
Mr and Mrs S say they asked about resale of the timeshare, were told it would not be a 
problem, and put their timeshare up for sale the following year.
The timeshare unit did not sell, and in 2014 Mr and Mrs S exchanged it for a larger unit and 
paid a further fee to upgrade their membership. They paid the fee with a further loan  again, 
not from VFL. Mr and Mrs S again tried, unsuccessfully, to sell the timeshare they had 
bought in 2014. 
In 2015 Mr and Mrs S remortgaged their house to pay off the two outstanding timeshare 
loans at a significantly lower interest rate. They also made a lump sum payment to reduce 
the mortgage balance. 
In 2017 Mr and Mrs S again traded in their existing timeshare for two weeks in a different 
unit. Again, they paid a further fee. Again, they tried to sell the timeshare weeks, but were 
not successful in doing so. 
By 2019, therefore, Mr and Mrs S still had the timeshare they had bought in 2017 and had 
tried unsuccessfully to sell three different timeshare arrangements. They remained members 
of the Radisson Blu Resort and Spa in Malta.
In July 2019 Mr and Mrs S were again staying at the resort. They say they were told that the 
Azure Group, which operated the resort, was switching from traditional timeshare ownership 
to points-based membership. As a result, they bought 17,550 points (referred to as XPs) and 
Level 3 club membership at a total cost of £17,950; in addition, they traded in the timeshare 
they had bought in 2017. XPs could be exchanged for holiday accommodation and 
experiences, including sailing trips, motor home hire, and driving experiences The purchase 
was financed in part with a 10-year £12,565 loan from VFL in Mrs Ss name.
In April 2021 Mr and Mrs S complained to VFL. They said: they had been pressured into 
buying the XPs; the product had been misrepresented to them; the points had been sold as 
an investment; the lending had been irresponsible; the loan created an unfair relationship; 
and commission had not been disclosed as it should have been.    
VFL did not accept the complaint, and Mr and Mrs S referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that it be upheld and that appropriate loan refunds be made, 
putting Mrs S broadly in the position she would have been in if the purchase had not gone 
ahead in 2019 and the loan had not been granted. VFL did not accept the investigators 
recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review the case.   
I did that and, because I did not agree that the complaint should be upheld, issued a 
provisional decision. In summary, I said:
I had not seen any evidence to suggest that the loan was not affordable for Mr and Mrs 
S. 
The arrangements between VFL and the seller of the XPs were such that VFL could be 
held liable for any claims for breach of contract or misrepresentation which Mr and Mrs 
S might have arising from the sale in 2019.
I was not however persuaded that they had any such claims. 
It did not appear that the overall circumstances of the case created an unfair 
relationship between Mr and Mrs S as borrowers and VFL as lender.    
Mr and Mrs S asked for more time to provide evidence and arguments in response to my 
provisional decision. They have not however done so within the extended time allowed. I 
have therefore considered the matter afresh.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out above, Mr and Mrs S have been club members for several years and have bought 
four timeshare products in that time. But only the 2019 purchase was financed by VFL. 
Whilst the other purchases are relevant background, therefore, they cannot give rise to a 
complaint about VFL. I wont therefore comment any further on them.    
Affordability 
Lenders are required to ensure that loans are affordable and appropriate. What that means 
in practice will vary from case to case. 
Mr and Mrs S have said that, by 2019, their previous lender would no longer provide them 
with further credit, largely due to their age. I have not however seen any other evidence to 
suggest that the loan was not affordable for them. They have not suggested, for example, 
that they have missed payments or that the loan is in arrears. And, whilst age may be a 
factor for lenders to consider (not least because retirement income is generally less than 
employed income), it does not follow that lenders should always decline loan applications 
from older customers.  
The fact that a borrower has not missed any payments or fallen into arrears does not 
necessarily show that the lender did carry out appropriate checks before agreeing the loan. 
In this case, however, they do indicate that Mr and Mrs S suffered no loss as a result of 
taking the loan out. They also indicate that, even if more detailed checks had been made, its 
likely the loan would have been granted in very similar terms in any event.   Sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act  
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 statements made by a broker in 
connection with a consumer loan are to be taken as made as agent for the lender.  
In addition, one effect of section 75(1) of the Act is that a customer who has a claim for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain conditions, 
bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
I do not understand VFL to dispute that the loans were made under pre-existing 
arrangements between it and Azure XP Limited, the seller of the membership and the XPs. I 
note that Azure Services Limited was, at the time, an authorised representative of VFL. I 
have therefore considered what has been said about the sale in 2019. 
Misrepresentation
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr and Mrs Ss statements about what they were told at the sales presentation are largely 
unsupported by any documentation. They have said that they were told the XPs would be 
more marketable than a traditional timeshare and that they were sold as an investment. 
The Application for Membership recorded that Mr and Mrs S had received the Standard 
Information Document, the Rules of Membership, the Reservation Rules, and the Deed of 
Trust. That is relevant to the question of whether they were misled about what they were 
buying.  
Mr and Mrs S say that they had been trying to sell their existing timeshares, and I accept that 
was the case. In 2014 and 2017 they had only been able to exchange them for similar 
products. So, to the extent that they no longer wished to be traditional timeshare owners, a 
points-based membership achieved that aim; attempts at an open-market sale had not done 
so.     
I am not persuaded however that the XPs were sold as an investment that Mr and Mrs S 
could sell. They were sold as a means of funding holiday accommodation and experiences. I 
note as well that the contractual documents made it clear that XPs could only be sold 
through Azure and once they had been held for five years. I understand  the resale 
programme was opened in 2022, after this complaint was first brought. I have however seen 
no evidence that Mr and Mrs S have sought to sell their XPs.           
The usual remedy where a successful claim for misrepresentation is made is to place the 
claimant in the position they would have been in had no misrepresentation been made. 
Mr and Mrs Ss position when they bought the XPs was that they had a timeshare which they 
did not want. They had been trying to sell it and earlier timeshares for around five years, if 
not longer. They had concluded there was no real market. In my view, therefore, there is a 
real possibility that they would have gone ahead with the purchase in any event. At the very 
least, it would give them greater flexibility than they had previously.       
In addition, the Membership Application included, at clause 13:This Agreement shall constitute the sole agreement between the parties and supersedes all 
prior agreements, representations, discussions and negotiations between the parties with 
respect to the subject matter hereof.
And clause 20 included:
This Agreement is irrevocable and legally binding upon all parties and cannot be cancelled 
or rescinded at any time after the expiry of the statutory withdrawal period stated In this 
Agreement and will supersede any and all understandings and agreements between the 
parties hereto whether written or oral and it is mutually understood and agreed that this 
Agreement and the Standard Information Document and ancillary documents represent the 
entire agreement between the parties hereto and no representation or inducements made 
prior hereto which are not included in and embodied In this Agreement, or the documents 
referred to, will have any force or effect.
In my view, that was an attempt to ensure that anything on which Mr and Mrs S sought to 
rely was included in the contract itself. I am not persuaded in this case that they were in fact 
misled, so I do not need to comment on the effect of that provision.
Section 140A claims
Under section 140A and section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments.
In considering whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship, a court can have 
regard to any linked transaction.
I am satisfied that the timeshare agreement in this case was a linked transaction (that is, 
linked to the loan agreement) within the meaning of section 19 of the Consumer Credit Act. 
There was a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, and the timeshare agreements were 
financed by the loans.   
An ombudsman does not have the power to make an order under section 140B. I must 
however take relevant law into account in deciding what I consider to be fair and reasonable. 
And I have the power to make a wide range of awards  including, for example, requiring a 
borrower to refund interest or charges, and to write off or reduce a loan. I am not persuaded 
however that I should do so here. 
As I have indicated, I accept that there were links between VFL and Azure. I do not believe 
that this led to a conflict of interest in respect of their relationship with Mr and Mrs S. Azure 
was selling club membership and XPs. Whilst it introduced finance options, it was not acting 
as Mr and Mrs Ss financial adviser or agent and was under no obligation to make an 
impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give advice or information on that basis.    
Mr and Mrs S say that any commission paid to Azure should have been disclosed. For the 
reasons above, I dont agree. But in any event, VFL says none was paid.   
Mr and Mrs S say too that the sale was pressured. They initially declined to buy XPs, but 
were persuaded to go ahead the following day. I note however that Azures standard 
documents included a statement from the buyer to say they had not been put under 
pressure. Its significant too in my view that Mr and Mrs S had 14 days in which to review the 
documents and withdraw from both the sale and the loan agreements. If they thought they had agreed to sign up to any of those agreements as a result of undue pressure, it is not 
clear to me why they didnt take advantage of the option to withdraw.  
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman