DRN-3370380
The complaint
Miss R complains about the amount of interest that Studio Retail Limited has charged her on 
her catalogue shopping account.
What happened
In late April 2020, Miss R contacted Studio Retail for help on her account. She said she was 
struggling to pay off what she owed because of the amount of interest that was being applied 
each month. She asked Studio to freeze all interest charges to allow her to pay back the 
outstanding balance more quickly. 
Following further discussion between Miss R and Studio Retail, in May 2020 Studio offered 
Miss R a three month payment holiday to assist her, which she agreed to. This was because 
Miss R had said she was struggling financially as a result of the global pandemic. Studio 
Retail said that the payment holiday would mean there would be no charges or negative 
impact on Miss Rs credit file, but interest would continue to accrue. 
Around six weeks later, Miss R complained to Studio Retail to say that interest was 
continuing to be added to her account and she had understood that interest would be frozen. 
She also said that the amount of interest being charged was unfair and making it too difficult 
to pay off the balance. Studio Retail didnt uphold the complaint as it said it could find no 
record of telling Miss R that interest would be frozen during the payment holiday. Further, it 
said that the interest had been applied correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the 
credit agreement.  
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Studio Retail had 
misled Miss R or given unclear information about the interest being charged during a 
payment holiday. Lastly, he was satisfied that the interest rate was made clear to Miss R and 
that he hadnt seen anything to indicate that the amount of interest Studio Retail were 
charging was unfair. 
Miss R accepted what the adjudicator said about the payment holiday but didnt agree 
regarding the level of interest that was being charged. She said it was unfair and 
unreasonable for Studio to take half of her monthly repayment in interest. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R appears to have accepted our adjudicators finding that Studio Retail made the terms 
of the payment holiday clear to her and that interest would continue to be charged. For 
completeness, I agree that I think Studio Retail made it clear interest would continue to 
accrue. The relevant guidance issued by the regulator at the time confirmed lenders could 
continue to charge interest on payment holidays granted because of difficulties resulting 
from the pandemic. I therefore dont think it was unreasonable for Studio Retail to continue 
charging interest during this time. I havent seen any reason why Studio Retail ought to have 
taken more robust measures at the time in Miss Rs specific circumstances, such as 
reducing or freezing interest. 
Miss R says the amount of interest Studio Retail has charged is unfair. She says that around 
half of her monthly repayment goes towards paying interest and she feels this is excessive 
and causing it to take longer for her to pay off what she owes. However, from what Ive seen, 
Studio Retail have charged the contractual interest that Miss R agreed to when she signed 
up to the account. Studio Retail arent in breach of any rules, regulations or legislation with 
the amount of interest it is charging either. Further, Ive not seen anything to indicate that 
Studio Retail ought to be taking any additional forbearance measures specifically in relation 
to Miss R that would make me conclude it had acted unfairly in applying interest at the 
contractual rate.
While I can appreciate that the interest charges mean it will take Miss R longer than shed 
like to pay back any outstanding balance, Ive not seen anything to make me think Studio 
Retail has acted unfairly. For this reason, I dont consider they need to do anything to put 
things right. 
Miss R can of course pay more than the minimum payment each month which would ensure 
a greater amount of capital is paid off each month. However, I understand shes told us she 
might not be in a position to be able to afford to do that. Should she not be able to afford the 
minimum repayments either, she should discuss any repayment plans with Studio Retail 
directly. I remind Studio Retail of its obligation to treat Miss R fairly and with forbearance 
should she be struggling financially.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman