DRN-2177339
The complaint
Miss W has complained about the amount she had to pay to Mortgage Express to redeem 
her mortgage.
What happened
Miss W used to have a mortgage with Mortgage Express. In 2019 she was suffering from 
severe ill-health and had to move house. She was also experiencing financial difficulty and 
was unable to pay the monthly instalments on her mortgage.
In November 2019 Miss W spoke to Mortgage Express and said shed found a buyer for her 
property. Mortgage Express agreed she didnt have to pay anything on her mortgage in 
November and December 2019.
Miss W sold her property in February 2020 and the mortgage was repaid. She complained 
about the amount she had to pay because Mortgage Express had continued to charge her 
interest from November 2019 and had charged her an arrears fee of £40 because she hadnt 
paid anything in January 2020.
Mortgage Express didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint so she referred it to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. They thought Mortgage 
Express was still entitled to charge interest after November 2019 but it shouldnt have 
charged the arrears fee or informed credit reference agencies (CRAs) that Miss W had 
missed payments in January and February 2020. They thought Mortgage Express should 
refund the arrears charge, plus interest, and remove the adverse information from Miss Ws 
credit file.
Mortgage Express didnt agree with our investigators recommendation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mortgage Express called Miss W in November 2019 in response to a complaint shed made 
about another matter. The complaint handler referred to a request Miss W had made for a 
reduction in her interest rate because shed been struggling to maintain her mortgage 
payments. They went on to say that Mortgage Express would accept zero payments for 
November and December 2019 and it sent a letter to Miss W to confirm this arrangement.
I think Mortgage Expresss complaints handler could have explained to Miss W in more 
detail that it would still charge interest to her account even though it had agreed she didnt 
have to pay anything. But I think Mortgage Expresss offer of zero payments was reasonable 
and I wouldnt have expected it stop charging interest as well.
In January 2020 Miss W contacted Mortgage Express and said the sale of her house hadnt 
been completed but the sale was still proceeding. Mortgage Express says it couldnt agree to 
an extension to the zero payment arrangement at that time because it needed more 
information. It said it tried to telephone Miss W in February 2020 and left a message for her. 
Miss W says she didnt get the message because she was having problems with her 
telephone and she had told Mortgage Express about this.
I dont think it was reasonable for Mortgage Express to charge Miss W an arrears fee in 
January 2020. She had telephoned to explain the situation regarding her sale and it was still 
going ahead. The adviser told Miss W she would need to refer the matter to a higher 
mandate holder to see if the zero payment could be extended to cover January 2020. The 
adviser didnt say it would be necessary for someone to contact Miss W for further 
information.
Miss W had explained the position regarding the sale of her property in detail. Shed also 
said she was having problems receiving calls on her mobile phone. Im not persuaded it was 
necessary for Mortgage Express to speak to her again in order to agree a zero payment for 
January 2020. The mortgage was repaid in full in February 2020, so Miss W didnt miss a 
payment in that month and Mortgage Express shouldnt have told CRAs she had missed a 
payment.
Putting things right
Given the above, I think Mortgage Express should refund the arrears fee to Miss W with 
interest and remove any information from her credit file saying she didnt make the payments 
she needed to make in January and February 2020.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Mortgage Express to:
1 Pay Miss W £40;
2 Pay Miss W interest on £40 at 8% per year from the date she repaid the mortgage to 
the date of reimbursement; and
3 Remove any information from her credit file saying she didnt make her mortgage 
payments in January and February 2020.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Charles Bacon
Ombudsman