DRN-3637940
The complaint
Mr M complains that bdhSterling Limited failed to inform him that his objectives for wanting 
to transfer his defined benefit pension scheme benefits would not be taken into account 
when it was advising him on the suitability of potential transfer. 
What happened
Mr M joined his employers occupational defined benefit pension scheme in September 1988 
becoming a deferred member just over twenty-one years later in December 2009. In October 
2009, Mr M emigrated to Australia. Mr Ms sole remaining UK asset is his previous 
employers DB scheme. 
In January 2021 Mr M contacted bdhSterling because he was minded to transfer his DB 
scheme benefits to an Australian personal pension. At the time Mr M was going through a 
divorce and, as such, he didnt want his soon to be ex-spouse to have any entitlement to his 
pension death benefits if he died. He told bdhSterling that his four children were no longer 
dependent so they were unable to benefit from his DB scheme death benefits either. Mr M 
said if he died his benefits in the DB scheme would die with him. So Mr M told bdhSterling 
that he wanted to take control of his pension so that he could leave his fund to his children in 
the event of his death. Mr M also said he wanted flexibility over how he received his pension 
rather than to have a fixed income. 
In February 2021 bdhSterling completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Ms 
circumstances. Mr M also completed an attitude to risk questionnaire, a pension transfer 
questionnaire, signed a client agreement (terms and conditions) and was given a second 
client agreement detailing bdhSterlings service provisions and charges. Mr M selected 
bdhSterlings abridged advice service at a cost of £500. 
A relatively long delay then followed whilst bdhSterling endeavoured to obtain the relevant 
information about Mr Ms DB scheme, so its initial transfer analysis report wasnt provided to 
Mr M until 23 August 2021. The report concluded that there was insufficient information for 
bdhSterling to be able to make a recommendation, so it offered Mr M the option of receiving 
a full transfer analysis at a cost of £6,000 (from which the £500 charged for the abridged 
service would be deducted). 
Mr M agreed to proceed on that basis and bdhSterling provided a full transfer analysis report 
to him on 9 September 2021 in which it concluded that the transfer wasnt in Mr Ms best 
interests and that, consequently, it was unable to facilitate his request. 
Mr M complained to bdhSterling. He said that when it was advising him, it had failed to 
consider the reasons why he wanted to transfer. He also said the abridged service had been 
a waste of time and that he would have lost £500 if he had subsequently decided to seek 
advice from another firm. He said because of that he felt the only option open to him if he 
wanted to achieve the transfer was to proceed with, and pay for, with the full advice service. 
Mr M said the full transfer analysis report was based on calculations regarding his income at 
retirement which was not one of the reasons he gave to bdhSterling for wanting to transfer. 
Mr M said he disputed the invoice he was being asked to pay. 
bdhSterling looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt conclude that it should be upheld. It said 
the analysis didnt support the transfer being in his best interests and it said that it had given 
him clear information regarding its processes and charges before he signed the client 
agreement to proceed. It noted Mr Ms primary requirement was to transfer his pension but 
said it was required (by the regulator) to assess whether the transfer would be in his best 
interests. bdhSterling went on to say that whilst Mr M had cited death benefits as one of his 
objectives for transferring, its main focus when formulating its advice was on retirement 
income. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to bdhSterling, Mr M complained to this service. 
Our Investigator looked into his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She said 
she was unable to force bdhSterling to facilitate the transfer as the decision for doing so was 
its alone to make. She also said that she understood why Mr M was unhappy with the 
outcome of the advice he had received, and that he had had to spend a lot of time and 
money without achieving his objectives. Our Investigator thought though that bdhSterling 
had provided Mr M with clear information about its processes at the outset to allow him to 
make an informed decision about how he wished to proceed. 
Mr M disagreed with our Investigators findings. He said bdhSterling hadnt told him that the 
reasons he wanted a transfer wouldnt form part of its analysis of the suitability of the 
transfer and, that if it had, he would have sought advice elsewhere after the abridged advice 
stage. Mr M said bdhSterling must have appreciated early on that his was a situation where 
a transfer wouldnt be found to be in his best interests yet it allowed him to proceed so that it 
could collect the larger fee. 
Our Investigator responded to say that only the really obvious requests to transfer are 
filtered out at the abridged stage because at that point no financial viability tests are 
conducted. She said that bdhSterling had explained to Mr M that his request needed further 
analysis and that it was acting within the bounds of its service agreement in doing so. So she 
said she didnt think bdhSterling had treated Mr M unfairly by asking him to pay for the 
advice he received. 
Mr M continued to disagree with our Investigator. He said the main reason he wanted to 
transfer is DB scheme was to take advantage of the more favourable death benefits 
available under a personal pension. However, Mr M said bdhSterling told him at the end of 
the process that his reasons for wanting the transfer werent factored into its assessment of 
its suitability. So, Mr M said, bdhSterling had misrepresented that his reasons for wanting to 
transfer formed part of the decision-making process. 
Our Investigator was unable to agree. She said that Mr Ms objectives had clearly been 
considered by bdhSterling but when compared to the financial detriment of making the 
transfer, his objectives didnt outweigh the risk associated with recommending and 
facilitating it. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this is a complaint that should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate that Mr M is disappointed that having incurred £6,000 in advice fees he finds 
himself unable to proceed as he wishes. And I understand the reasons why Mr M wants to transfer his pension. But bdhSterling wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have 
thought he wanted. The advisers obligation is to give Mr M an objective picture and 
recommend what is in his best interests. 
I can see from both the abridged and full transfer analysis reports that bdhSterling clearly 
considered Mr Ms objectives when advising him. So I cant agree with Mr M that it didnt. A 
clients objectives alone however arent sufficient enough to make a transfer suitable. The 
regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) places many requirements on firms advising on 
pension transfers. When the transfer concerns a DB scheme, the regulators starting position 
is that such transfers are unsuitable and should only be considered if it can clearly be 
demonstrated that it is in the clients best interests. 
From 2020, the regulator permitted financial firms to provide an abridged advice service to 
clients seeking advice on their DB schemes. That service can only yield two possible 
outcomes: either a recommendation not to transfer or, a notification that it is unclear whether 
or not that a transfer was in a clients best interests. 
Ive considered the terms and conditions provided to Mr M by bdhSterling at the start of the 
advice process. I can see that they set out that bdhSterling offers two types of service  
abridged and full. And I can see the abridged service only applies to advice on DB schemes. 
The terms and conditions state: 
Our abridged service provides simple and straightforward advice about whether transferring 
your DB pension is likely to be an appropriate option to consider, without incurring the full 
cost of our full pension transfer advice service
Following abridged advice the outcome will be one of the following:
1)We will recommend that you remain in your DB pension scheme(s) rather than transferring 
to a new pension arrangement. 
Or
2)We will inform you that based on the information collected as part of the abridged advice 
process, we cannot establish whether it would be in your best interests to transfer your DB 
pensions schemes.
They also set out that what each service costs and what each service consists of for the fee 
paid. Within the section about the cost of the full pension transfer service it says: If we do 
not believe it is in your best interests to transfer your DB pension(s), our report will detail the 
reasons why. Where we recommend you do not transfer your DB pension(s) the £6,000 fee 
will still be payable. [my emphasis].
Ive also considered the client agreement Mr M signed and note it says: By signing this 
agreement you are agreeing to pay the charges for our services. It also said: We will only 
implement the advice we provide, including the underlying solutions, and we will not 
implement or facilitate anything that differs from our recommendation. So whilst I accept that 
having to pay £6,000 without obtaining what he wanted will be disappointing to Mr M, I think 
that bdhSterling made it clear from the outset that he would be liable for the fee even if it 
advised him against transferring his pension, and that it would not facilitate the transfer in 
such circumstances. 
Im satisfied that the terms and conditions, and the signed client agreement, clearly set out 
the two types of service and the costs associated with both. I think both documents are 
readily understandable such that Mr M was able to make an informed choice about how he wanted to proceed. It is clear that there are only two possible outcomes from the abridged 
advice service and that, in Mr Ms case, it concluded that it wasnt possible to establish (the 
regulators) requirement that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. I can see too that, 
upon receipt of this report, Mr M elected to proceed to the full advice service. No guarantees 
were given by bdhSterling that in doing so it would recommend the transfer. Of course I 
understand why Mr M is unhappy with the outcome of the advice and the fact he has been 
unable to achieve his objective. But I think bdhSterling was clear with Mr M from the outset 
about its process. And I cant agree that it misrepresented to him that the reasons he gave 
for wanting to transfer were important; they were important and they were taken into 
account.  
Mr M has said the full transfer analysis report was based on calculations regarding his 
income at retirement however this was not one of the reasons he gave to bdhSterling for 
wanting to transfer. Whilst I note Mr Ms point here, the fact is that the regulator requires all 
financial businesses advising on a DB scheme transfer to analyse the value of the transfer 
and to consider what income Mr M would require in retirement to determine whether that 
would be feasible if the transfer were to go ahead. 
I appreciate the death benefits under a personal pension were an important reason for 
Mr Ms desire to transfer his DB scheme, but the priority here for bdhSterling was to advise 
Mr M about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension is primarily designed to 
provide income in retirement. And if Mr M lived a long life there may well have been little by 
way of a fund to leave to his beneficiaries in any event. Ultimately, Mr Ms desire to transfer 
his pension in order to provide increased death benefits had to be weighed up against the 
benefits hed be giving up by transferring out. And I dont think bdhSterling couldve done 
that without undertaking the full advice process.
Although I appreciate that it will come as disappointment for Mr M, for the reasons Ive given 
here, I dont think his complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman