DRN-3702029
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way that Target Servicing Limited dealt with a query she had 
about letting her property out. She feels it has caused her some financial loss and is also 
unhappy with how long Target took to give her permission to do this.
What happened
Mrs W purchased her property in September 2016 with the assistance of the help to buy 
scheme. 
The help to buy scheme is a government scheme in place to support home ownership. In 
addition to the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a borrower takes an equity shared loan 
funded by the government to reduce the amount of cash deposit that would be otherwise 
required. Mrs Ws property is in England, and she took the loan out with Homes England, 
which was formally known as Homes and Communities Agency. They are an executive 
agency and non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Levelling Up, 
Housing and Communities. Homes England lends a percentage of the property purchase 
price to the borrower to enable them to buy a home.
Help to buy shared equity loans are interest free for the first five years. From year six 
onwards, interest is payable. Help to buy shared equity loans are secured by way of a 
second charge over the property, ranking behind the main mortgage. This means that the 
loan must be repaid at the end of its term which is generally 25 years. But if the property is 
sold before then, it must be repaid on the sale of the property. A borrower can also elect to 
repay the loan at any time, even if the property is not being sold. 
Mrs W submitted a query to Target in March 2021. She had been notified that the block her 
flat was in had failed an EWS1 check and was rated as a B2. This means that it was 
considered to have potentially risky combustible cladding or other fire safety issues needing 
remedial work. So she knew she might have issues selling the property until any work had 
been carried out. Because of this rating, she said she found out that surveyors would not 
value the property. 
Mrs W contacted Target to seek advice about whether she could let her property out. Mrs W 
was aware that she would start to pay interest on the loan from September 2021 so wanted 
to get things sorted out before then. Mrs W said she didnt hear anything from Target for 
around six months. Mrs W said she wanted to get things sorted out and she was hoping to 
let the property out, move to another bigger property as she was due to have a baby in 
September 2021. As she couldnt sell this property yet, she wanted to let it out in the 
meantime. 
Mrs W said that had Target responded to her sooner than they did, she would have been 
able to let the property out and would have received an income from this. Mrs W told us that 
she eventually let the property out on 14 November 2021 for 12 months with an agreed 
rental income of £1,400.
Target have accepted that there were some delays in getting back to Mrs W but said that 
during a call in April 2021, Mrs W was told what she needed to do and it wasnt until August 
that Mrs W made her written request to let the property out.
Mrs W brought the complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. Our investigator upheld the complaint and thought that Target had delayed the 
application. So it should refund Mrs W for the rent that she lost out on  for six months. The 
investigator also thought that Target should pay Mrs W £250 for the stress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Ms W accepted that. But Target said there was no evidence that they had caused any 
delays so said they wouldnt refund the lost rent  though they agreed to pay £250 
compensation. They also provided further information for the investigator to consider. 
After reviewing the information, our investigator changed her mind. She thought that Target 
should only pay for one months rent of £1400 plus 8% interest for the delay of around six 
weeks that was caused on top of the compensation that had already been paid. 
Target still didnt agree they caused a six-week delay. They said during a call on 26 March 
2021, Mrs W was correctly advised that she needed to write to Homes England to request 
letting her property out. And that during a follow up call on 19 April 2021, Mrs W was 
informed again regarding the information that Homes England would require.  Target said it 
wasnt until 30 August 2021, that the written request was made by Mrs W to let her property 
out.  
As Target disagreed, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs W wanted to let her property out once she realised that she may have some trouble 
selling it. Its part of the terms and conditions of the loan that the borrower must live in the 
property and not let it out. So if Mrs W wanted to let her property out, she would need 
permission to do so first. Target have told us that they were not responsible for any delays 
with regards to this process.
Mrs W contacted Target by email on 5 March 2021 to make some enquires about letting her 
property out. Target didnt respond to Mrs W and they have accepted that they didnt do so.
Ive listened to the call from March 2021 where Mrs W calls Target to enquire about different 
options available to her. On this call she explains that her property is affected by cladding 
and that she has an EWS1 form. She explains to the adviser that she has been told 
surveyors wont value the property because of the rating on the EWS1.  The adviser told Mrs 
W that she should send in the EWS1 form as well as confirmation that a surveyor wont 
come out to value the property to Target. He then said he would send these to Homes 
England but explained it could be a while until she heard back from them.
On 26 March, Mrs W called Target again to chase them regarding her query. The adviser let 
Mrs W know that there hadnt been any update. Mrs W explicitly asked the adviser on this 
call if the query she had submitted was the only way she could sublet the property and the 
adviser explained that Homes England needed to approve it. He told Mrs W that she should 
put it all in a letter with regards to what she wanted to do as it wasnt clear that she wanted 
to sublet the property. Mrs W said that it was one of her options originally when she first 
emailed on 5 March, but she would write in to make it clear that is what she wanted as it 
would give her more options. 
Ive then listened to a call from April 2021 between Mrs W and an adviser at Target where 
Mrs W was calling because she hadnt heard anything. The adviser asked Mrs W to write in 
with more details regarding her intention to sublet the property as he said it would speed it 
along. He said that the details they had were not specific to Mrs W wanting to sublet the 
property. Mrs W said she would send in an explicit email with her intentions. The adviser also let Mrs W know that she would need written confirmation from her 
mortgage lender that they were happy for her to sublet her property and forward this to 
Target. 
Having listened to these calls, its clear that Target did explain to Mrs W on two occasions 
that she would need to write in to them letting them know that she now wanted to sublet her 
property as the information they had from Mrs W originally, wasnt clear. And Mrs W did 
confirm that it was an option she was considering so I can understand why Target would 
now need to know that this is specifically what Mrs W wanted to do. Target also needed 
confirmation that her main mortgage lender had already agreed to letting.
I havent seen anything that confirms that Mrs W sent anything to Target after the first 
telephone call from March 2021 which would have make it clear to Target that she wanted to 
let her property out. However, the calls from March and April do make it clear that this is 
what Mrs W wanted to do. And the email that Mrs W sent Target on 5 March 2021 shows 
that Mrs W was thinking about subletting her property and wanted to know if this would be 
approved. Target however didnt let Mrs W know until the call in April 2021 that she would 
also need to get permission from her mortgage lender to let the property out. 
Having considered everything. I think that Target could have made the process clearer to 
Mrs W in letting her know that she needed to contact her lender for approval to sublet the 
property from the first telephone conversation in March 2021. While it seems as though Mrs 
W may not have made it clear that she wanted to specifically sublet her property, it was one 
of the options that she wanted to explore and I think that Target couldve explained this 
process to Mrs W much earlier than they did. Mrs W had originally sent her email to Target 
on 5 March 2021 explaining she may want to let her property out and wanted to know if this 
was possible. Target didnt respond to this email and if they did respond and make it clear 
the steps that Mrs W needed to take for all of the options she asked about, she could have 
got things moving much sooner. But it wasnt until 19 April 2021 that Target gave her a 
complete answer about what she needed to do, which I feel delayed matters.  
So I disagree with Target that they didnt cause any delays. Had they informed Mrs W of the 
correct process by responding to her initial email, then Mrs W couldve started the process 
sooner for letting her property out and she couldve contacted her lender earlier than she did. 
I therefore think there has been a delay for around five to six weeks that was unnecessary. 
Mrs W managed to get permission from her lender in September 2021 and she said they 
moved out six weeks later  on 14 November 2021.
Mrs W explained to Target that she was expecting a baby in September 2021 and that they 
needed to find a bigger property as the one they were living in wasnt big enough  
especially as Mrs Ws husband would be working from home. And they couldnt sell to move 
to a bigger property until the cladding works were completed. So there was a valid reason 
why this needed to be looked at sooner than it was. And while I appreciate Mrs W didnt 
send in her specific request to let her property out until August 2021, she had contacted her 
lender by then and was waiting for their approval. 
To put things simply, Mrs W had a right to expect a response to her initial query setting out 
exactly what she had to do  and this didnt happen. 
If things had been explained to Mrs W sooner, its likely that she would have been able to let 
her property out a month or so before she did in November 2021. So I think that Target 
should compensate her for one months loss of rental income on top of the compensation of 
£250 that has already been paid. But I dont think it needs to pay more than this, since 
Target is not responsible for the time taken to get agreement from the mortgage lender once 
it made clear to Mrs W what she would need to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Target Servicing Limited to:Pay Mrs W £1400 which is one months rental income plus 8% simple annual 
interest, running from October 2021 to date of payment, in addition to the distress 
and inconvenience payment of £250 it has already paid.
If Target Servicing Limited deducts any tax from any interest it pays to Mrs W as above, 
they should provide Mrs W with a tax deduction certificate, so she can reclaim the tax 
from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman