DRN-3812415
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint against Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as AEGON Scottish Equitable) is
about a number of issues. In summary, he complains that:
His pension had been invested in a cash fund rather than a deposit account since 
2008. He hadnt requested it be switched to a cash fund.
The plan hasnt been administered correctly, particularly in relation to a change in 
retirement date.
The charges on the cash fund were unreasonably high. The charges also hadnt 
been administered correctly.
He hadnt received policy information from January 2015 onwards.
He experienced a number of difficulties in obtaining historical information about the 
plan.
What happened
I issued a decision on which parts of Mr Ws complaint that we could consider on 3 October 
2022. I explained that Mr Ws complaints about wrongly been invested in the cash fund, and 
the change in the retirement date, hadnt been made within the relevant time limits. 
Therefore we couldnt consider those complaints.
However Mr Ws complaints about the charges on the cash fund being excessive
/unreasonably high, and being administered incorrectly; him not receiving policy information
from January 2015 onwards, and about the difficulties he experienced in obtaining historical
information about the plan had been made within the relevant time limit. So we could 
consider them.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaints. He sent his assessment to both 
parties in May 2022. The background and circumstances were set out in that assessment, 
and so I wont repeat it all here. But very briefly, Mr W had a pension plan he'd started with 
Aegon in 1990. In 2008 he transferred another pension to it. Mr Ws funds were 
subsequently invested in a cash fund for a prolonged period  Mr W says incorrectly. Due to 
the low rate of return the value of the fund gradually reduced. Mr W raised a number of 
issues about the administration of the plan and its charges over a period of time, culminating 
in his current complaints.
The investigator didnt recommend that the complaint about the excessive charges and their 
application should be upheld. He said, in summary, that information about the charges had 
been provided to Mr W several times over a number of years. He thought the firm had made 
the charges clear. The investigator said firms had the right to set the prices of their products 
irrespective of what other providers charged. He said he thought the negative impact on Mr 
Ws fund was largely a result of the timing of the investment  it coincided with the financial 
crash and credit crunch of 2008. This had resulted in historically low interest rates and over 
a period of time.  However he said this wasnt Aegons fault. And he said he hadnt found 
any evidence that the policy had been administered incorrectly. 
The investigator also didnt recommend the complaint about Mr W not receiving policy 
information from January 2015 should be upheld. He said Aegon had provided copies of 
annual statements sent after January 2015 up until 2021 which were correctly addressed. 
And he noted that in a letter that Mr W had sent to Aegon dated 30 January 2017 Mr W had 
referred to receipt of the 2017 statement. 
Mr W had also complained that hed experienced a number of difficulties in obtaining 
historical information about his plan. The investigator said the information that Mr W had 
requested was extensive, non-standard, and primarily historic in nature; some going back to 
the 1990s. He noted Aegon had said some of the information had had to be manually 
reproduced due to changes in legislation and systems over the years. 
The investigator said Aegon had provided a lot of information to Mr W, including transaction 
histories and information about charges levied over the lifespan of the policy. Some 
elements of Mr Ws requests had had to be referred on to more senior or experienced 
colleagues, which resulted in some delays, and answers to queries being spread across 
multiple Aegon staff. Although he understood Mr Ws frustration at the difficulty he faced 
getting answers, the investigator didnt think overall that Aegon had acted unreasonably in 
the particular circumstances. He thought it had endeavoured to provide the information that 
Mr W had requested. So the investigator didnt recommend this part of Mr Ws complaint 
should be upheld. 
After I sent my decision setting out which parts of Mr Ws complaint we could consider, Mr W 
provided a further submission. He said, in summary, that although one statement had been 
received (in 2017), two financial advisers had been unable to obtain information. His account 
had been listed as gone away, despite his address not changing. He said critical information 
on performance fees and policy terms werent available to him due to long and slow 
response times. And the excessive fees werent clear until a focused investigation in 2021. 
He said as soon as he became aware of the excessive fees he transferred his funds. And if 
hed understood the full fee structure at an earlier stage he would have transferred 
immediately. 
Mr W asked why he wasnt contact in 2018 as he approached the maturity date of his policy. 
He asked why all the units werent cancelled at that date in accordance with the policy terms. 
And he also asked why a terminal bonus wasnt paid at that date.
The firm also responded to my decision on jurisdiction and asked for clarification on some of 
the points that Mr W was complaining about.
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons.
The firms records show that Mr Ws address wasnt marked as gone away until January 
2020. And it says it sent annual statements prior to that date. The copies of the statements 
on file were correctly addressed. Its clear, in any event, that Mr W received the 2017 
statement. And I dont think he disputes receiving earlier statements (2016 apart). The 2017 
and earlier statements provided the values for his plan as at that year and the previous year. The 2017 statement showed the value was £319,640. And that the value for the previous 
year was £321,103. It said the yearly charge was 1%. The 2014 statement said its value was 
£323,935. And its value for 2013 had been £325,469. So I think Mr W ought reasonably to 
have been alerted to the funds performance and could see that its value had been falling 
steadily over time. 
Mr W wrote to the firm on 21 February 2017. He set out some concerns about the plan and 
asked for details about the management charges. He also referred to the Cash Fund 
Factsheet and said that Aegon had fallen well short of the Benchmark.
So I think irrespective of Mr W receiving those later statements, Mr W had clearly taken an 
interest in the charges on the plan over a number of years. He ought reasonably to have 
been aware of the general performance of the fund. And clearly was in February 2017 when 
he wrote to the firm and compared it to its benchmark. As noted by the investigator, Mr W 
had made several enquiries about the charges with the firm over time. Aegon had written to 
Mr W on a number of occasions responding to his queries. It provided information on 
separate occasions about the 1% annual management charge and the 0.75% charge on the 
regular premiums. For example the firms letter to Mr W dated 12 October 1999 referred to a 
request for information about the policy from Mr W dated 27 September 1999. The letter set 
out the main charges of the policy under point 7.
5% Bid/Offer spread  this is the difference between the Offer price (price premiums are 
applied at) and the Bid price (price premiums are sold at).
1% Fund Management Charge  this charge is deducted from the price of the units before 
the price is published.
% Administration Charge  this is deducted annually on the renewal date and is the value 
of % of the regular premiums paid into the policy from the outset.
2.58/£30.96 pa Policy Charge.
As I explained in my decision on jurisdiction, I think Mr W ought reasonably to have been 
aware that he was in a cash fund. And hed been sent information about the charges and the 
funds performance. Whilst I accept that he may not have understood all the intricacies of the 
workings of the plan and its charges, I think he was reasonably alerted to the main 1% 
charge on the cash fund, and the 0.75% charge that had been applicable to the regular 
contributions. Mr W has said that if hed known about the charges he would have transferred 
earlier. However in my view he was reasonably alerted that he was in a cash fund, its 
performance, relative performance to its benchmark and to the charges a number of years 
ago. So I think Mr W ought to have been aware of the position and had had the opportunity 
to transfer for some time in this knowledge, but decided not to do so. 
I accept that there were some delays in Aegon providing responses to some of Mr Ws more 
recent requests for information. However, as the investigator said, a lot of the information 
was detailed and going back a number of years. That can take time, and I think it needs to 
be considered in the appropriate context. As Ive said above, the firm had provided details of 
the main charges and performance a number of times over the years. That position hasnt 
materially changed, and I dont think any delays in providing information prevented Mr W 
from transferring elsewhere earlier. 
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the charges havent been administered correctly. A 
terminal bonus was paid on the plan in 2008 (and wasnt due in 2018). The firm has provided 
copies of letters it says were sent to Mr W on 29 August and 21 December 2017 as he 
approached the 2018 retirement date.  The letters were correctly addressed, and Ive got no reason to think these letters werent sent. The letters explained that Mr W was reaching his 
selected retirement date and set out his options. 
The firm has said the units werent cancelled in 2018 as Mr W didnt take his benefits. I think 
this is consistent with the terms which required notice of not less than one month and not 
more than three months of the pension commencement date. Effectively Mr W didnt 
respond to the firms letters about what he wanted to do with the benefits, and so no notice 
of the commencement date was given.
I realise that my findings will be disappointing to Mr W. However after taking all the above 
into account, I havent been persuaded that Mr Ws complaint should succeed. 
Aegon queried the nature of Mr Ws complaints. Mr W has raised several issues that I 
summarised above. They are quite wide in scope. When Mr W raised issues with the firm in 
2017 it said, in its letter dated 15 February 2017:
Although there are time limits for referring your complaint to the Ombudsman, we will
consent to them considering your complaint even if you refer it to them outside these time
limits. That complaint was in respect of certain charges, but it does muddy the waters and I 
think Mr Ws complaints overlap somewhat both in terms of merits and jurisdiction. As I said, 
I think we can consider the parts of Mr Ws complaints as I outlined above. But ultimately, I 
dont think the complaints should be upheld in any event. 
In responding to my jurisdiction decision Mr W also said he wasnt given internet access to 
his account (because he was over age 75) until 2021. He said this was age discrimination. 
For the reasons I have explained above, I think Mr W already had sufficient information 
about the plan to have transferred if he thought the charges were excessive. However the 
issue of discrimination hasnt been considered as part of this decision  Mr W will need to 
raise it separately if he wants to complain about that matter.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman