DRN-3452996
The complaint
Ms B says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms B took out an 18-month instalment loan for £1,000 on 7 November 2020. The monthly
repayments were £228.56 and the total repayable was £4,114.08. I understand there is an
outstanding balance.
Ms B says she was struggling financially when the loan was given. She missed repayments
and had to borrow money to make repayments.
Our adjudicator said Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. She said the lenders checks were
not proportionate as there were signs Ms B was having problems managing her money and
so it was unfair to lend to her.
Loans 2 Go disagreed. It said its checks showed Ms B was managing her credit well and
there was no adverse data recorded against her active accounts. She was within her limits
on all accounts and this new loan still left her with disposable income.
As no agreement was reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I 
reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator, but I relied on different evidence and 
findings. So I issued a provisional decision to give everyone a chance to comment. An 
extract follows and forms part of this final decision. I asked both parties to send any 
comments or new information by 27 April 2022.
An extract from my provisional decision
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Ms B before it approved the loan. It
asked for her monthly income and expenditure. It slightly reduced her declared income after
a third-party income verification check. It increased her declared expenditure based on
national statistics and the credit commitments it could see from its credit check. It also
reviewed her credit history. From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded Ms B would
have £180.01 disposable income after taking on this loan and so it was affordable.
I think these checks were proportionate given the size and term of the loan and its
repayments, but I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision based on the
information it gathered. Ill explain why.
Loans 2 Go saw that Ms B had £20,144 of debt outstanding when she applied for this loan.
£6,511 was on credit cards and whilst she wasnt over limit, her use of available credit had
increased significantly in the last 6 months (from 58% utilisation to 82%). In order to make
just the minimum contractual repayment on her credit cards and to repay a hire purchase
agreement she had recently taken out Ms B needed to spend £410.33 each month. By
giving this loan Loans 2 Go increased the proportion of her income Ms B would need to use
to service her debt to over 35%. This is significant and I think Loans 2 Go ought to have
realised that at this level there was a risk the loan repayments would become unsustainable
for Ms B at some point during its 18-month term. And it needed to consider this, not just the
pounds and pence affordability, to meet its regulatory commitments.
It knew from the credit check that Ms B had historically struggled to stay on top of her
finances, defaulting on two accounts, having an arrangement to pay in place on a third, and
being in long-term arrears on a fourth. To be clear I am not saying this historic adverse data
alone was a reason not to lend, but in circumstances such as these where the loan
repayment meant the monthly spend on credit rose to over a third of net income, it ought to
have concerned the lender. I note Ms B went on to have problems making her repayments
only two months into the term of the loan.
It follows I find Loans 2 Go was wrong to give the loan to Ms B.
I havent seen any evidence Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Ms B in
some other way.
I then set out what Loans 2 Go would need to do to put things right if I upheld the complaint.
Neither party responded to the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party submitted any new evidence it follows I have no reason to change the 
findings or outcome I set out in my provisional decision. 
For the reasons set out above I find Loans 2 Go was wrong to lend to Ms B.  
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Ms B to repay the capital that she borrowed, because she
had the benefit of that money. But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that
shouldnt have been provided to her.
So Loans 2 Go should:
Refund all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Ms B
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Ms Bs loan account results in her having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Ms Bs loan account results in an outstanding capital balance Loans 2
Go must try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms B.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Bs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.My final decision
I am upholding Ms Bs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out above,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman