DRN-1498464
 
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with what Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) did after she made a 
claim on a legal expenses policy provided alongside her motor insurance. 
What happened
Ms M has motor insurance with RSA which includes uninsured loss recovery and legal 
expenses. In April 2017 she was involved in an accident and contacted RSA about this. It 
arranged for repairs to her car and said it had referred her personal injury claim to one of its 
panel solicitors to progress. In August Ms M contacted RSA as she was having difficulties in 
contacting the panel solicitors. RSA passed those concerns on and told Ms M she 
could appoint her own solicitors if she preferred.
Matters progressed with the panel solicitors. However, in late 2017 the panel solicitors said 
they could no longer act for Ms M. They said she'd been abusive and wouldn't agree to a 
medical report.  RSA agreed to appoint another panel firm to take the claim forward. It says it 
made clear to Ms M at that time that in order for the claim to progress she would need to 
work with the relevant medical agencies. However, the second panel firm subsequently said 
it couldn't progress the claim because of the issues with the medical evidence.
In response to the concerns Ms M raised about what happened RSA said it had acted in line 
with the policy terms. It said if Ms M could provide a positive assessment on prospects of 
success from a solicitor of her own it would consider providing funding for them to pursue the 
claim. But it accepted when the second panel firm said it could no longer act for her it should 
have got in touch with Ms M to discuss her options. It offered to pay her £150 because that 
didn't happen.
Our investigator didn't think RSA needed to do anything more but Ms M didn't agree. She 
said RSA didn't identify a solicitor who was able to deal with her mental health issues and 
the policy didn't put a limit on the number of solicitors she could have. And she didn't feel 
RSA had given her sufficient information about the third party insurer to enable her to pursue 
a claim against them herself. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M has queried why the complaint is against RSA when her contact has been with a 
different organisation. I appreciate her claim may well have been dealt with by a different 
body but as RSA is the insurer of her policy that organisation would have been acting on its 
behalf. RSA remains responsible for what happens when a claim is made. And that's why 
the complaint has been set up against RSA. 
To decide whether it's done anything wrong here I've looked first at the policy terms. They 
say "RSA will assist the Insured Person in appointing a Legal Representative to help them 
recover their Uninsured Losses from the the party who caused the Motor Accident. Whether or not the Insured Person is successful RSA will pay the Legal Expenses which their Legal 
Representative reasonable and proportionately charges them...."
The policy goes on to explain that it will initially assist an Insured Person to appoint a Legal 
Representative from its panel of legal firms. But if it later becomes necessary to start court 
proceedings the Insured Person has the right to choose an alternative solicitor if they wish. 
So I don't think RSA did anything wrong by putting Ms M in touch with one of its panel firms 
as that's in line with what her policy says. And while Ms M says that firm wasn't able to deal 
with her mental health issues it's not clear what RSA knew about these when she made her 
claim (it isn't referenced in the notes from the time). But in any case I don't think RSA would 
have had any reason to think a panel firm wouldn't be able to make appropriate adjustments 
for these.  
I appreciate there was then a breakdown in relations between Ms M and that firm but as Ms 
M knows any concerns she has about the conduct of the panel firm would be for the Legal 
Ombudsman to consider. I think RSA acted appropriately when it became aware of this by 
contacting the panel firm about this. It also advised Ms M that she could appoint her own 
solicitor. And once that panel firm said it would no longer act for Ms M I think RSA again 
acted correctly in arranging for another panel firm to take forward the case. 
It's unfortunate there was then a further breakdown in relations between Ms M and that firm. 
And there isn't a specific limit in the policy on the number of panel solicitors that can be 
appointed. But as the issues this case appear to have arisen because Ms M wouldn't agree 
to the medical evidence needed for her case to progress I don't think it was unreasonable of 
RSA to decide not to appoint another panel firm; without agreement to the medical evidence 
Ms M wouldn't be able to evidence her claim. And I understand RSA  only has two firms on 
its panel in any case.
RSA has accepted that after the second firm stopped acting for Ms M it should have done 
more to explain her options to her. But I note it had already advised  she had the option of 
appointing her own solicitors and did so again in its letter of 30 January (subject to them 
providing a positive opinion on the prospects of success of the claim). Taking that into 
account I think the compensation it's offered of £150 is fair. I've also looked at the 
information RSA provided about the third party insurer and I think it provided a reasonable 
response to the request Ms M made.  
My final decision
I've decided not to uphold this complaint because I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
has already done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
James Park
Ombudsman