DRN-1818462
 
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the service provided and the delays caused by Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited (LV) when he claimed on his motor insurance policy following 
an accident.
What happened
Mr R was involved in a car accident on 3 April 2019 resulting in his car being repaired.
Mr Rs car was taken for repair at one of LVs approved repairers. Mr R had to visit the 
garage several times to check on the car and unsatisfactory repairs that had been carried 
out. 
The car went back to the repairing garage because the repairs carried out were not 
acceptable and after a second attempt to repair the car LV agreed to have Mr Rs car 
repaired at a different garage.
Mr R eventually received his car back fully repaired on 20 August 2019. 
LV accepted the service Mr R received was below the standard he should have expected 
and that delays were caused. In recognition of this LV offered Mr R £250 compensation.
Our Investigator investigated Mr Rs complaint and thought the compensation LV had offered 
Mr R was fair so didnt think LV should have to do anything further. Mr R didnt agree so this 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not disputed. What is in dispute is whether the 
compensation LV have offered Mr R is fair.
I have looked over all the information provided by both LV and Mr R. While some delays in 
repairing Mr Rs car were justified there were also times when delays could have been 
avoided. Mr Rs car should also have been repaired to an acceptable level the first time it 
went to a repairing garage.
While Mr Rs car took longer to repair than it should have, and Mr R did a lot of chasing 
around that he shouldnt have needed to although it appears he was kept mobile with the 
use of another car, and I cant see that he has lost out financially in any way.
This service isnt designed to punish businesses, and the offer made by LV for the 
experience Mr R had during this claim is in line with what this service has offered previously 
for similar complaints. So with this in mind I think the offer made by LV was fair and reasonable
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman