The complaint
Mr A complains Zenith Insurance plc unfairly cancelled his motor insurance policy.
Mr A is being represented in his complaint by Mr H.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr A took out a motor insurance policy with Zenith. In January 2019
Mr H says Zenith contacted Mr A and asked him to provide a copy of his driving licence. Mr 
H emailed photos of the front and back of the driving licence and assumed Zenith had 
everything they needed  as they didnt hear back from them.
In May 2019, Mr H says the DVLA told Mr A he wasnt insured. Mr H contacted Zenith, 
they said they had been unable to open all the documents that were emailed through and 
this meant they didnt have a copy of the front of the licence. Because of this the policy had 
been cancelled as the documents they needed to validate Mr As policy hadnt been 
provided.
Zenith also told Mr H a refund for the remainder of the policy wouldnt be provided as
Mr A had made a claim in January 2019.
Mr H made a complaint. He was unhappy the policy had been cancelled. He said Zenith 
had not done enough to make him aware the information was missing or to allow him to 
send the missing part of the licence. As the policy had been cancelled, Mr H said Mr A was 
now having difficulty obtaining insurance from a new provider. Mr H was also unhappy 
Zenith wouldnt provide a refund for the remainder of the policy.
Zenith said they wrote to Mr A in January 2019 to inform him they would cancel the policy 
in seven days if they didnt receive a copy of the licence. They said they received an email 
from Mr H eight days later, but they couldnt read all the information sent.
As the cancellation hadnt been processed Zenith said they gave Mr H more time to 
provide the information. But as they didnt receive anything further, the policy was cancelled 
a few days later. Zenith said the cancellation hadnt been recorded on any external 
databases, but as Mr A had made a fault claim on the policy, he wasnt entitled to a refund.
Mr H was unhappy with Zeniths response, so he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended Mr As complaint be upheld in part. He said Zenith wrote 
to Mr A in December 2018 to request a copy of his driving licence and sent two further 
chaser letters to Mr A in January 2019 before the policy was cancelled. So, he said Zenith 
acted fairly in cancelling the policy.
DRN-1925301But our investigator also said the wording used in Zeniths final chaser didnt make it 
clear enough that they were giving seven days notice of the cancellation of the policy. He 
said Zenith contacted Mr H after he emailed the licence and gave him more time to provide 
a readable copy of the front, so this didnt make a difference to them cancelling the policy. 
But he felt they should pay Mr A £100 compensation for the inconvenience the letter caused.
Our investigator said as fault claim had been registered against Mr A, Zenith had acted 
in line with the general terms and conditions of the policy when they retained his premium. 
So he didnt recommend they refund it. He said Zenith hadnt recorded the cancellation on 
any external databases, so the difficulties Mr A had in obtaining a new insurance 
premium elsewhere were likely to be due to the claim.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He said he never received any letters about 
missing documentation until the end of January 2019 and Zenith didnt do enough make him 
aware of it.
Mr H said when he became aware of it, he sent the driving licence to Zenith, but due to 
a human error one side was visible and the other wasnt  but this shows he was trying to 
do what Zenith had asked.
Mr H also said the cancellation of the insurance had caused Mr A to suffer stress 
and anxiety. He said Zenith had discriminated against Mr A and wasnt considering 
his health condition.
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 29 May 2020. In that decision, I said:
In the policy document, under the cancellation section, it says Zenith can cancel the policy 
if there are serious grounds to do so. It lists a number of examples including failure to 
provide validation documentation:
you have failed to supply requested validation documentation (evidence of No Claim
Discount, copy driving licence, etc.);..
It says Zenith will do this by giving the customer 7 days notice in writing to their last 
address notified to us.
Zenith have provided a copy of the letter they sent to Mr As home address in December 
2018 when he first took out the policy. The letter confirms cover and details what Mr A 
needed to do next  this included documents Zenith needed from him, such a copy of his 
driving licence. Below this it says:
it is important that we receive this within the next 7 days to avoid your policy 
being cancelled
Zenith hadnt received a copy of the driving licence, so on 11 January 2019 they wrote to 
Mr A to remind him they needed it  and failure to provide this in the next seven days 
may result in the cancellation of the policy.
Zenith then wrote to Mr A again on 18 January 2019 to request the copy of the 
driving licence as they still hadnt received it. In the letter they said:
if you fail to provide the above documentation within seven days from the date of this 
letter, we are authorised by your insurer to act as their agents for the purpose of cancelling insurance cover and give you notice that we will enforce cancellation of the 
policy.
From reading the above I think Zenith made it clear what would happen if Mr A failed 
to provide a copy of the driving licence within seven days  they would cancel the policy.
A copy of the driving licence was sent to Zenith shortly after the deadline from Mr Hs 
email address. But the email shows one side of the driving licence, with a red x appearing in 
the other photo/file instead  and unfortunately this meant Zenith couldnt read it. Ive not 
seen anything that persuades me this was due to any issue with Zeniths systems and its 
not uncommon for pictures/files sometimes not to come through on emails  so I cant 
say Zenith are to blame for this.
Zenith hadnt cancelled the policy at this point, so they replied to Mr H and made him 
aware they still needed a copy of the front of the driving licence. Zenith only gave him until 
the end of the day to do this  but the email wasnt sent until late afternoon, so I dont think 
this was a reasonable time frame for Mr H to respond. But the screenshots and internal 
notes provided by Zenith show the policy wasnt cancelled until around 2 days later - as they 
still hadnt been received a copy of the licence. So I dont think this made a difference.
So, I think Zenith have treated Mr A fairly. They wrote to him on three different occasions 
asking for a copy of the licence, giving him notice of what would happen if he didnt. Mr A 
did send the licence over, but this was after the final deadline set, and as it wasn't 
completely readable Zenith gave him more time before finally cancelling the policy when 
they hadn't received it.
Mr H said Mr A never received any letters  so I appreciate it wouldve been a shock 
and stressful to find out a few months later that he wasnt insured. But Im satisfied the 
letters were sent, and they are addressed to Mr A at the correct address. Although there are 
issues with post at times, theyre rare, so I think its more likely than not, they would have 
been delivered.
Overall, Im satisfied Zenith acted reasonably in cancelling Mr As policy. In the general 
conditions of the policy it says, under the cancellation section, that Zenith:
reserve the right to retain all premiums paid for the current period of insurance in 
the event that a fault claim has been made against the policy during this period.
Zenith provided system notes that show a claim was registered in January 2019  and 
that fault has been registered to Mr A. So as fault claim exists, I think Zenith have applied 
the policy terms fairly by not refunding Mr As premium.
I think Zenith have treated Mr A fairly and reasonably  and Ive not seen anything 
that persuades me theyve discriminated against Mr A in any way. And, in any event, Ive 
not seen anything to suggest Zenith were aware of the issues Mr A has before the policy 
was cancelled.
Zenith gave Mr A more time than what was set out in their terms and conditions to 
provide copies of the licence. But as they still didnt have the documentation they needed, 
they cancelled the policy. I can understand the frustration of not being able to get a refund 
on the policy as Mr A only had use of it for a short time, but as a fault claim had been 
registered, Im satisfied Zenith applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly in not 
refunding the remainder of the premium.Because I dont think Zenith has treated Mr A unfairly, I dont think an award 
of compensation is due here.
Mr H said Mr A has had difficulty obtaining new insurance because of the 
cancellation. Insurers take lots of different factors into consideration when deciding whether 
or not they wish to offer insurance and at what price. Mr A also has a claim against him, so I 
think its equally likely any difficulty in obtaining insurance could be due to the claim. Mr A 
has a duty to provide all relevant information to any future insurers, so if he is in any doubt 
about what information he needs to disclose, he should speak to those insurers directly.
Zenith said they had no further comments.  Mr H disagreed with my provisional decision and 
provided further comments. He reiterated the points hed made to the investigator in that he 
hadnt received the letters, hed tried to do what Zenith had asked and the licence not 
showing on the email was a human error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Hs comments, but hes not made any new arguments  or presented any 
new evidence. So having taken everything into account, my outcome and reasoning remains 
the same as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold Mr A's complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman