DRN-3121787
The complaint
Mr G complains because Society of Lloyds (SoL) hasnt paid claims for two cancelled trips 
under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr G held an annual travel insurance policy through his employer. The policy was issued in 
December 2019 and was provided by SoL.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but 
essential international travel because of the pandemic. On 23 March 2020, the UK 
government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement as a result of the pandemic, 
commonly referred to as lockdown. The government announcement included an instruction 
to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons. 
Mr G was due to travel abroad on a trip, which Ill call Trip A, on 22 May 2020. Mr G 
cancelled Trip A as, both on the date he cancelled the trip and on his intended departure 
date, the FCDO was still advising against all but essential international travel. Mr G claimed 
with SoL for his unused flights. 
Mr G was due to travel abroad on another trip, which Ill call Trip B, on 3 July 2020. On 18 
June 2020, Mr Gs airline cancelled his outbound flight. Mr G didnt travel on Trip B and 
claimed with SoL for his unused return flight and his unused accommodation costs. 
SoL said Mr Gs claims werent covered under his policy, because of exclusions relating to 
government orders or regulations, and pandemics.
Unhappy, Mr G complained to SoL before bringing the matter to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said he didnt think SoL had 
acted unfairly by declining Mr Gs claims. Mr G didnt agree with our investigators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must handle 
claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account 
when making my decision about Mr Gs complaint. 
I understand Mr G found himself in an unprecedented and exceptional situation, through no 
fault of his own. I also understand that, when this policy was issued in December 2019, the 
circumstances that unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have been foreseen by either 
consumers or insurers. However, this doesnt automatically mean that Mr Gs claims are 
covered under his policy with SoL. 
No insurance policy covers every situation, and an insurer is entitled to limit the risk it is 
prepared to accept under a policy. SoLs obligations under its contract with Mr G are limited 
by the terms, conditions and exclusions which are set out in his policy.
Mr Gs policy, at page 17 under the heading Cancellation, says that SoL will pay for certain 
costs:
as a result of the necessary and unavoidable cancellation of YOUR TRIP (in its 
entirety) due to specific, sudden, unforeseen and verifiable circumstances, totally 
beyond YOUR control. 
On pages 17 and 18 of the policy, and under the same section, the policy goes on to say:
YOU are not covered for 
7. any losses arising from the order or regulation, including enactment and/or 
enforcement of such order or regulation, of any Government;
8. any losses arising from an epidemic or pandemic as categorised as such by any 
Government and/or the World Health Organisation; 
I think these exclusions are clearly set out within the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy, 
and exclusions such as these are relatively common in many travel insurance policies. 
I understand both Trip A and Trip B were booked before Covid-19 was declared to be a 
pandemic by WHO and before any restrictions on travel were introduced by the UK 
government and/or by the governments at Mr Gs intended destinations because of the 
pandemic. But Mr Gs policy doesnt only exclude claims arising from government orders 
imposed or pandemics declared after a trip was booked  the policy excludes all claims 
arising from government orders or pandemics, regardless of when these were imposed or 
declared. 
Trip A was cancelled because Mr G was unable to travel due to government restrictions 
imposed because of the pandemic. This means exclusions 7 and 8 quoted above apply, and 
his claim isnt covered under the Cancellation section of his policy. 
I understand that Mr G is claiming for his unused return flight on Trip B and, on the date of 
the intended return flight, the destination which Mr G had planned to visit was exempt from 
FCDO advice against all but essential travel. But, both on the date that Mr Gs outbound 
flight on Trip B was cancelled by the airline and on Mr Gs intended departure date on Trip B, 
the FCDO was still advising against all but essential travel due to the pandemic, and partial 
lockdown restrictions because of the pandemic remained in place. Its difficult to pinpoint 
with any certainty one specific reason for the cancellation of Trip B. However, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, I think that government travel restrictions imposed due to the pandemic 
are likely to have been the reason why Mr Gs airline cancelled his outbound flight, and 
therefore, are the reason for the claim. Again, I think this means exclusions 7 and 8 quoted 
above apply, so Mr Gs claim isnt covered under the Cancellation section of his policy. 
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr Gs policy (including Sections 12, 14 and 
17), but I dont think he held any cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances he 
found himself in. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, but I dont think his claims are covered under the terms and conditions of his policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask SoL to accept his claims. So, I wont be directing SoL to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman