DRN-2491534
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a van he has been financing through an agreement with 
FCE Bank Plc (FCE).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his van under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the van should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then FCE, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
But FCE arent responsible for everything that goes wrong with the van. Theyre only 
responsible for its quality at the point of supply.
Mr L says the van was supplied with a fault, but Im not persuaded there is sufficient 
evidence that was the case. I say that because:
a completed job card from the dealership in September 2016 says, customer wants 
inverter wired to main battery. Prior to that work there are no job cards showing 
problems with the battery charge or inverter. That suggests its likely there wasnt a 
problem beforehand but that problems have occurred since the inverter was rewired;
as the inverter was apparently rewired at Mr Ls request it would not be fair to hold 
FCE responsible for any subsequent faults with the inverter as the van wasnt 
supplied in that condition;
even if the inverter wasnt rewired at Mr Ls request Im persuaded, by the job card, 
that it was rewired and in that case the subsequent fault isnt one that is likely to have 
been present when the van was supplied but one that has arisen out of the 
subsequent electrical work;
the electrical inspection completed on 17 August 2020 says there is a wiring harness 
present for the original equipment inverter but that an after-market inverter has been 
fitted and connected to the main and not the auxiliary battery. That seems to refer to 
a subsequent inverter Mr L has had fitted and, again, for the same reasons, thats not 
FCEs concern.
It would not be reasonable to tell FCE to take responsibility for the fitting of the inverter or its 
rewiring. This work wasnt financed under the agreement and FCE are not responsible for 
problems that werent present or developing when Mr L took receipt of the van. 
If Mr L wishes to complain about the quality of the inverter or the way it has been fitted hell 
therefore need to talk to the business that did that work.
Im not asking FCE to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman