DRN-3359433
The complaint
Mr V has complained about the manner in which Allianz Insurance Plc handled his equine 
pet insurance policy.
Although the policy isnt branded in Allianzs name, it provides the cover and as such it is 
responsible for claims issues. So as Allianz is responsible for replying to the complaint I 
will only refer to it within this decision.
What happened
Mr V has a time-limited policy for his horse, who Ill refer to as F. The policy will cover F for 
illness and injury for 12 months, starting from the date during the policy year the injury 
happened or the clinical signs of the illness were first noticed.
In 2021 Mr V claimed for some dental treatment for F. Allianz turned down the claim. It said 
vets had first treated F for a related issue in January 2019 and that the dental treatment Mr V 
claimed for was excluded from cover.
Mr V didnt think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She didnt think Allianz needed to take any further action. Mr V didnt agree so 
the complaint's been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mr Vs raised a number of points. I've considered everything hes 
said and everything on file carefully. But in this decision I dont intend to address each and 
every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key points at the heart of 
Mr Vs complaint that hed put to Allianz previously.
As I've said above, Mr Vs policy is time-limited. The policy says it will only cover an injury or 
illness for 12 months, starting from the date during the policy year the injury happened or the 
clinical signs of the illness were first noticed. 
Mr V claimed for the vets costs of taking out one of Fs teeth, referred to as tooth 108, in 
May 2021. The treating vets said the tooth concerned had been identified as being fractured 
in January 2019 but at the time they hadn't considered it clinically significant. They said it 
wasnt until April 2021 that the dental disease had progressed to a point requiring further 
investigation. So Mr V believes that the requirement for treatment only arose in April 2021, 
vets took the tooth out the next month and he put in his claim shortly after. So he thinks 
Allianz should cover it. And, while I can understand his point of view, I think Allianz has 
turned down the claim fairly. Ill explain why.
Vets provided Allianz with Fs medical history going back a number of years. These show 
that tooth 108 was first noted to have fractured in August 2017 and a diastema (a gap 
between the teeth) was evident at that time. And, as that was the first time clinical signs of 
Fs issue with a diastema and tooth fracture were known, had it applied its policy terms 
strictly, Allianz could have backdated its exclusion to August 2018. That date being 12 
months from when vets first saw the fractured tooth and evidence of the diastema.
However, Allianz also noted that vets had treated the diastema between teeth 108 and 109 
in January 2019. At that time the vet placed a temporary bridge in the diastema. Mr V has 
disputed that it was a bridge that was inserted and said that instead it was a temporary 
bung. But the vets notes completed at the time of the treatment refer to it as placing a 
temporary bridge. Also, the vets who took the tooth out in 2021 also referred to it as a 
bridge. They said the bridges purpose was to prevent food packing in the diastema. But, 
whatever the treatment was called, it was undoubtedly treatment to help F with the problems 
created by his diastema. 
Allianz noted that treatment in January 2019 was the first time vets had treated the diastema 
between teeth 108 and 109. So it said the 12 month time limit for cover for that treatment 
started from January 2019. That means the time limit for cover for tooth 108 would have 
expired by January 2020, which was significantly before vets took it out in May 2021. And on 
that basis Allianz said the claim for taking out tooth 108 wasnt covered. 
I'm aware that the treatment in January 2019 was for the diastema between teeth 108 and 
109, rather than to treat the fractured tooth itself. But that doesn't mean Allianz should cover 
the claim for removing the tooth. It might help if I explain that prior to Mr V renewing his 
policy each year Allianz asked him to tell it about Fs health and if hed seen a vet or had any 
treatment. But when Mr Vs policy renewed in 2019 he didn't tell Allianz about the treatment 
for Fs diastema in January that year. If he had Allianz would have added an exclusion to the 
policy at that point. Thats because, as I've said above, time-limited policies like Mr Vs only 
cover a condition or other issues related to certain conditions for a specific period. So 
insurers like Allianz add exclusions to policies for things that the horse has already suffered 
from once that time period has ended.
In this case, if Mr V had told Allianz about the diastema treatment in 2019 before his policy 
renewed Allianz would have added an exclusion that excluded cover from renewal. The 
exclusion would have removed cover for the Mouth, Teeth, Tongue And/or Gums, affecting 
and relating to teeth 108 and 109. So, any treatment for tooth 108 would no longer have 
been covered from January 2020. And they would have then included that policy exclusion 
when Mr Vs policy renewed in 2020. That was the policy year in which Mr V claimed for Fs 
tooth extraction. 
So, when Mr V submitted his claim in 2021 Allianz found out that he hadnt previously told it 
about the 2019 treatment for F's diastema. It noted that if Mr V had told it about that, and Fs 
fractured tooth, Allianz would have added the exclusion referred to above when the policy 
renewed in 2019 and again in 2020. So, at that point, it retrospectively added that exclusion. 
And that exclusion meant that the policy didnt cover any treatment for tooth 108. 
That was the case even though the 2019 treatment, the placing of a temporary bridge  or 
bung  was different to the treatment Mr V was claiming for. And, as that treatment was 
excluded Allianz declined the claim on that basis. So I don't think its the case that Allianz 
has misunderstood the treatment vets provided in the past. Instead, its fairly applied an 
exclusion that it would have added to the policy in 2019 had it known about the diastema 
treatment at that point. And, as the tooth extraction wasnt within 12 months of that treatment 
then the exclusion applied and the policy no longer covered the extraction. Thats how time-limited policies of this nature work. And I think Allianz has declined the claim fairly in the 
circumstances.  
Im aware Mr V doesn't think its fair that Allianz can retrospectively add exclusions to the 
policy, particularly when its done so midway through the policy year. But, as I've said above, 
Allianz asked Mr V prior to his policy renewing each year about whether F had had any vets 
treatment. And if Mr V had told it about Fs diastema treatment in 2019 then Allianz would 
have added the exclusion at that point. Similarly, if Allianz learns of any other health issues 
that vets have treated F for in the past, but Mr V hasnt told it about, then  as long as those 
are things that Allianz would have excluded anyway  it may add those exclusions 
retrospectively. I dont think thats unfair as Allianz is only doing what it would have done if 
Mr V had told it about the treatment prior to his policy renewing. 
In response to our investigators assessment of his complaint Mr V has suggested, amongst 
other things, that as F is a poor insurance risk Allianz has set a limit of losses and once it 
is reached any customer care is abandoned. As I'm sure hes aware Mr Vs policy does limit 
the level of cover to £5,000 per 12 month period for each injury or illness. But thats not why 
Allianz declined his claim. Instead, it did so because the treatment was beyond the 12 month 
time-limit his policy provides and as such was excluded from cover. So I don't think Allianz 
has treated him in anyway unfairly or turned down his claim for reasons other than those his 
policy allows.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman