DRN-3997873
The complaint
Ms N complains that esure Insurance Limited unfairly declined a theft claim she made on her 
motor insurance policy. Shes represented by her son, Mr N. 
What happened
Ms N said the car was on the drive at 5am when she left her home, but Mr N told her it was 
missing by 8.30am. He also told her the pouch that she thought was in the house and 
contained her bank cards as well as the key was missing. The thief had used the cards at 
that point and did so again before they were cancelled. esure later noted discrepancies 
between the facts given to it by Mr N and Ms N and those set out in the police report. It 
declined the claim as it didnt think the theft had occurred as reported to it. In esures 
opinion, the details it had reviewed suggested the key had been left in the car. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Ns complaint. He thought esure had acted 
reasonably. He noted that Mr N had said the key couldnt have been in the car, as it would 
then not have been possible to lock it. But the investigator said the cars manual didnt 
support that assertion. He thought esure had applied fairly the policy exclusion that said a 
theft wouldnt be covered if a key was left in or on a car.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute about the car having been taken using one of its own keys. It was found 
three months after it was taken, with only minor damage to it. But Mr N said the locks would 
have to be replaced, given that the thief still had a key.
esure noted that when Mr N first reported the theft, he said Ms N had dropped the pouch 
containing the key and the cards on the ground, after locking the car. But the police report 
said Mr N had told the police that the key and the cards could have been left in the car. And 
when esure asked Ms N about the incident later, she gave a different account. She said her 
cards were in her purse - which was left inside the car - but the key was stored separately in 
a pouch, which had been in her cardigan. Ms N said although she took the garment off 
inside the car (so the pouch could have fallen out at that point) she later removed it from the 
car and dropped it onto the drive. She said the pouch / key must have fallen out then. 
Mr N said he had told the police the key might have been left in the car, but he wasnt there 
at the time, so he couldnt be definite about it. He said it was only later that he and Mrs N 
realised what must have happened. He said if the key was found on the ground by the thief, 
then the policy exclusion didnt apply. Mr N also said that any thief who had found the cards 
and the key together wouldnt have used the cards first and then gone back later to steal the 
car. He thought that showed the key wasnt found in the car. 
As far as I can see, this issue wasnt discussed with esure, but I dont think it would have 
made a difference anyway. I think there are various reasons why a thief may have chosen 
not to take the car straight away - or they may not have been able to do so.
In my opinion, it was reasonable for esure to conclude that there was a lack of clarity around 
the theft, given the discrepancies it found. I think it was reasonable for it to conclude, on the 
balance of probabilities, that the key was left in the car. So I also think it was reasonable for 
it to decline the claim.
I know Ms N and Mr N wont be happy with my decision, but as I dont think they have shown 
that esure acted unreasonably, I cant uphold Ms Ns complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman