DRN-2916691
The complaint
Ms H has made a wide ranging complaint about the service Nationwide Building Society 
provided to her. She is unhappy that it closed several of her accounts, and she also has 
concerns about an overdraft decline, some ISA transfers, and a £10 credit and debit to one 
of her accounts. 
(I know that Ms H has made other complaints about Nationwide, but this decision only 
covers the issues set out above.)
What happened
Ms H told us:
She applied for an overdraft in mid 2019 but Nationwide turned her down  despite 
her above average credit score. Nationwide later agreed a £250 overdraft, but did not 
mention that it intended to close her accounts shortly afterwards.
In October 2019 Nationwide wrote to her giving her 60 days notice that it intended to 
close around a dozen of her accounts with it. Nationwide did not treat her fairly in 
closing her accounts. She believes the Payment Account Regulations 2015 mean 
Nationwide cannot close her Flex Basic Account. The nature of her ISAs with 
Nationwide (including a Help to Buy ISA) mean that she has limited choice from other 
providers. In addition, her Help to Buy ISA should have a fixed term until 
November 2029.
Nationwide caused problems when she tried to transfer her ISAs. It wrongly told 
another provider that her Help to Buy ISA was not in fact an ISA, and there were 
difficulties in transferring her Save to Buy and her Loyalty Single Access ISAs. 
Nationwides errors caused her to lose out on the other providers higher interest 
rates.
There was a £10 credit and debit to her Help to Buy ISA in May 2019. She did not 
make those transactions, and she did not provide her signature or online passwords 
to authorise the withdrawal.
To resolve her complaints, she would like Nationwide to keep her accounts open. 
She would also like it to pay compensation for associated interest losses and 
inconvenience.
Nationwide told us:
It considers that the relationship between it and Ms H has broken down irretrievably 
and that its service does not meet the ambitious expectations [Ms H] holds of 
Nationwide.
It no longer wishes to provide banking services to Ms H.
It understands its legal obligations, and in particular it understands its obligations 
under the Payment Account Regulations 2015. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Hs complaint. She noted that Ms H made previous 
complaints about Nationwide, but she said this particular complaint concerns four issues: 
account closures; an overdraft decline; ISA transfers; and a £10 credit and debit. She 
addressed each of those issues in turn.
Overdraft decline: Ms H applied for an overdraft in August 2019, but Nationwide 
turned her down. She asked Nationwide to reconsider, and in September 2019 it 
agreed to arrange the overdraft. Our investigator said that whether or not to grant an 
overdraft was at Nationwides discretion  but in any event, Ms H had funds 
elsewhere and so any delays were unlikely to have had a substantial impact.
Account closure: Our investigator said that Nationwide had given Ms H 60 days 
notice before closing her accounts, and that it had therefore acted in accordance with 
its terms and conditions. She didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong in 
closing Ms Hs accounts.
Our investigator went on to say that she couldnt comment on Ms Hs Flex Basic 
Account, because Nationwide had not yet closed it.
ISA transfers: There was some confusion between Nationwide and the new ISA 
provider as to whether one of the accounts Ms H wanted to transfer was in fact an 
ISA. However, that issue was quickly resolved and the ISA was transferred within 15 
days of Ms Hs first request. Our investigator didnt think Ms H had suffered a 
financial loss as a result of the confusion, and so she didnt recommend any 
compensation.
There was also an interest issue with an ISA Ms H transferred to another provider. 
Our investigator said that the other provider has already backdated the relevant 
interest, and so she didnt recommend further compensation.
Finally, our investigator said Ms H was not able to transfer further funds into her Save 
to Buy ISA in December 2019 because its balance was already at the maximum 
allowed under the terms and conditions of the account.
£10 credit and debit: There was no need for our investigator to make a finding about 
whether Nationwide made a mistake in paying £10 to Ms H; it accepted that it did. 
Although Nationwide initially suggested an alternative explanation, it later agreed that 
Ms H didnt have anything to do with the disputed £10 debit and credit. It said the 
credit was an error (essentially due to making the same account correction twice), 
and the debit was to reverse the error. Our investigator didnt think Ms H had lost out 
financially, and she noted that Nationwide had paid already paid Ms H compensation 
in respect of admin issues. She didnt think Nationwide needed to do anything more.
Our investigator did not make any findings about Ms Hs Flex Basic Account. When our 
investigator issued her opinion, that account remained open. Nationwide has since 
confirmed that it does still intend to close that account, subject to any directions I might 
issue.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, there is nothing I can add to what our investigator has already said in 
respect of the overdraft, the ISA transfers and the £10 credit and debit. On those issues, I 
have reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for the same reasons. I know Ms H 
will be disappointed in my decision, but I consider that Nationwide has treated her fairly.
I also agree with our investigator about the closure of Ms Hs accounts, but I will make some 
additional comments on that point.
Both parties agree that Nationwides service has not met Ms Hs expectations. But that does 
not automatically mean that Nationwide has done anything wrong. Some services  and 
some financial businesses  are simply not a good fit for all consumers.
I am aware that Ms Hs unhappiness with Nationwide is a longstanding issue, and first arose 
well before Nationwide decided to terminate its relationship with her. But whether or not 
Ms H is happy with Nationwides service, Nationwide is entitled to choose who it wishes to 
do business with. So long as it acts fairly, I see no reason for me to interfere with its 
commercial judgment. I therefore need to consider whether Nationwide did act fairly with 
respect to Ms H and her accounts.
Looking at the accounts Nationwide has already closed, I am satisfied that Nationwide gave 
Ms H appropriate notice in accordance with its terms and conditions. Like our investigator, I 
see no reason why Nationwide should have been required to keep those accounts open.
In respect of Ms Hs Flex Basic Account, and any other Nationwide accounts she may still 
have, our investigator is right to say that it is difficult for the ombudsman service to comment 
on something Nationwide has not done. However, I understand that Ms H would like me to 
issue a direction ordering Nationwide to allow her Flex Basic Account to remain open. I am 
not prepared to do that, and I will explain why not.
Ms Hs view is that that Nationwide cannot close Flex Basic Accounts at all, and she has 
referred me to another ombudsmans decision in support of her position. But my colleague 
did not say that Flex Basic Accounts could not be closed under any circumstances. His 
decision was based on the specific circumstances of the other complaint, and applied only to 
that complainant. In those very individual circumstances, and as of the date of his final 
decision, he said that Nationwide should not close the other customers Flex Basic Account. 
He did not make any wider findings about Nationwides responsibilities.
Ms H also has referred me to the Payment Account Regulations 2015. I note that they set 
out a number of reasons for which a bank or building society may close a basic account. 
One of those reasons is that the consumer has access to another payment account in the 
United Kingdom which i) allows the consumer to make use of the services [listed elsewhere 
in the regulations]; and ii) was opened after the payment account with basic features.
Here, Nationwide told us that it believed Ms H had such an alternative payment account as 
at 2019. But whether or not she did have such an account at that time, Nationwide did not 
actually close Ms Hs Basic Flex Account in 2019  so there is no need for me to make any 
findings as to whether it would have been acting fairly if it had closed her Basic Flex Account 
in 2019.
If Nationwide chooses to close any of Ms Hs accounts in future, including her Flex Basic 
Account, then I would expect it to act lawfully when doing so. But there is no point in my 
issuing a direction ordering Nationwide to follow the law, because it is already required to do 
so. It has confirmed that it is aware of its legal obligations.I appreciate that Ms H and Nationwide may differ in their understanding of Nationwides legal 
obligations. But it is not my role as an ombudsman to resolve any disputes on that point. 
Instead, my role is to reach a fair and reasonable outcome on the complaints that have been 
referred to me.
I cant make a finding now as to whether Nationwide would be acting fairly if it were to close 
any of Ms Hs accounts in future, because that would depend on the circumstances at the 
time of the closure. If Ms H were to make a further complaint about Nationwides actions  
and if that complaint were in our jurisdiction  we would then consider the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules, and good industry practice as at the time that Nationwide took the actions 
Ms H complained about.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman