DRN-2599823
The complaint
This complaint is about Mr Ns Birmingham Midshires-branded mortgage with Bank of 
Scotland plc. Mr N complains that Birmingham Midshires (BM) reported non-payment of 
monthly instalments on his credit file after telling him he didnt need to pay whilst his property 
was being sold. Mr N says this reporting has impacted on his attempts to buy a new 
property.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties. So instead of repeating the details 
here, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the
round.
I should also explain that its for me to decide if I have enough information, or whether I need
to contact either party directly, in order to decide the complaint fairly. Here, I have everything
I need to reach my decision without pursuing any further enquiries with either party.
This complaint is simpler than its been made to look. The starting point here is that, under 
the terms of the underlying contract, Mr N is obliged to make his monthly payments in full 
and on time. Also, BM is not just permitted but required to record factually accurate data 
about Mr Ns payment record on his credit file. 
The next thing to consider is whether BM said or wrote something to Mr N causing him to 
believe:
firstly, that he didnt need to make payments whilst his home was for sale in the latter 
part of 2018 and early 2019; and
secondly, that if he didnt make payments, this would go unreported on his credit file.
Mr Ns evidence is that he was told this in a phone conversation; unfortunately, no phone call 
recording are available to confirm or contradict that. What are available are BMs notes of its 
contact with Mr N during that time. The value of contact notes is that theyre 
contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and agreed at the relevant time. 
Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information might be recorded 
incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a distance 
of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it.
The following is a verbatim reproduction of a note of a phone conversation in August 2018:
[Mr N].is working away at this time. he put the prop on the market on the 8th august (has it 
with two agents) . up for £235k at this time   . i explained as no nuyer (sic) at the mo m we 
need pmts on the account   and also a full i&e [income and expenditure] so we can ensure 
we get a full arrd (sic) in place
The very fact that a payment arrangement was in discussion reinforces the starting position 
that payments are due, and at no time in the various contact notes that follow does BM 
record saying anything to contradict that underlying message.
As for credit file reporting whilst Mr Ns house was up for sale, the following is an extract 
from the sale of property letter BM sent Mr N after he informed it of his intention to sell:
We will continue to report the status of your mortgage to the credit reference agencies. 
This information will be recorded on your credit reference file which is available to other 
lenders. This may affect your ability to borrow money in the future, not just with us, but also 
with other banks, building societies, mobile phone operators and other credit providers.
  
When I consider those two extracts, Im not persuaded BM told Mr N he didnt have to pay 
whilst his house was for sale or that if he didnt, it wouldnt record the fact on his credit file. 
All of that, put together, means theres no basis for me to find that the credit file entries after 
August 2018 should be removed or amended in any way.
In any event, theres something else. Mr N was already in arrears before August 2018, and 
that was already reported on his credit file. Even if no missed payments had been recorded 
between August 2018 and the redemption of the mortgage in March 2019, those earlier 
records of existing arrears would still be on Mr Ns credit file. That means the adverse impact 
he says hes experienced whilst trying to buy a new home would still have happened.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman