DRN-3944045
The complaint
Miss J and Mr As complaint about Yorkshire Bank Home Loans Limited (YB) relates to how 
YB presented a mortgage settlement figure online as this did not include all interest that was 
due under the mortgage. 
What happened
Miss J and Mr A had a buy-to-let mortgage with YB on a property I shall refer to as E St. 
When selling it they accepted an offer from a purchaser of £57,000 on 10 November 2021. 
They based their decision to accept the offer on the information they could see online 
regarding their mortgage balance. They thought that the amount displayed represented the 
total mortgage redemption figure. However, this online figure did not include all interest and 
any fees or charges that was actually due and so the true redemption figure was in higher. 
When completing on the sale, their solicitor obtained a mortgage redemption figure which 
was higher than Miss J and Mr A anticipated, and which left them with a shortfall to their 
budgeted finances.
Miss J and Mr A said they did not know that they ought to have obtained a redemption 
statement and that they relied on the online figure. They said they had previously sold 
another property, O Ct, also mortgaged to YB, and on that occasion they had also sustained 
a shortfall, which YB agreed not to pursue as a gesture of goodwill, although in doing so 
stated it was without prejudice to this complaint.
YB have said that their website information advised its customers to obtain a redemption 
statement when wanting to repay their mortgage. It disputed that its website information was 
inaccurate. It said the online balance has never shown any interest accrued, fees or charges 
unless it has been added to the balance.
Miss J and Mr A were unhappy with YBs final response and so approached this service to 
see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that YB hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Miss J and Mr A didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The essence of this complaint is that following the sale of E St, Miss J and Mr A have 
realised less from the sale than they anticipated. The starting point is to note that Miss J and 
Mr As mortgage was in arrears. This is an important factor because the account was 
switched to a non-accrual basis meaning that it prevented interest being capitalised on the 
first of each month, which is to Miss J and Mr As benefit. That is because any payments 
Miss J and Mr A made after this switch were applied to reduce the capital balance meaning 
interest would accrue on a smaller capital balance. 
YB accept that in some circumstances the balance shown on a customers online balance is 
different to the amount required to redeem the mortgage. They say if Miss J and Mr As 
mortgage account had not been in arrears the outstanding balance would have been correct 
on-line, except for showing any fees which might apply on redemption such as early 
repayment charges or mortgage exit fees. As the mortgage was in arrears the accrued 
interest wasnt shown was because it had not been capitalised, and any fees payable on 
redemption would not have shown.
Miss J and Mr A argue that YB does not explain that the online mortgage balance figure 
does not represent the true redemption figure and that there isnt any information that 
customers should contact the bank to obtain the actual balance. But YB say there is 
information on its website which sets out the importance of obtaining a redemption statement 
if a customer wishes to repay their mortgage.
I know Miss J and Mr A did not know that when looking to redeem their mortgage they 
should obtain a redemption statement in order to get an exact figure for repayment. I know 
they feel that they should be able to rely on an online balance figure. But I think its 
reasonable to expect a customer to ask for a formal redemption statement prior to repaying 
their mortgage, to ensure they get the correct amount to be repaid. And of course, there is 
information on YBs website which advises customers to do that. 
Miss J and Mr A have not challenged the accuracy of the redemption statement sent to their 
solicitor. As there is no evidence to say this statement is inaccurate I accept it represented 
the true amount required to redeem their mortgage. Under the terms of their mortgage, 
Miss J and Mr A were required to repay all that was due and owing and so I am satisfied that 
the correct amount has been repaid.
Miss J has spoken to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who told her that if the YB policy 
was not to report the total loan amount online and only show part of the residual loan, then 
that must be in line with their customer handbook. I do not know what was said in that 
conversation since I do not have a copy of the call, however I asked YB about this and their 
answer was that it did not have a policy not to report the total loan amount online. As such I 
find that YB have followed its policies and procedures fairly. 
Any overall or remaining concerns about business process Miss J and Mr A might have 
would need to be raised with the FCA. They take a principles-based approach to conduct 
regulation, letting businesses choose how they incorporate those principles into the way they 
deal with customers. Its not our role to recommend how financial businesses should conduct 
or arrange their commercial operations and processes  thats for them to determine. We 
dont have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct that they 
change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened in the circumstances of 
the individual complaint and check they followed their rules and procedures and have 
applied them fairly. And here, I think YB have.
During the course of dealing with their complaint, our investigator asked Miss J and Mr A 
whether or not they would have changed their plans had the online figure matched that 
which appeared on the redemption statement sent to their solicitor. They said they weren't sure. They also said that the online balance figure hadn't dictated the price at which they 
sold their property and that they had secured a good price for E St as they sold it for much 
more than other similar properties. 
What this means is that Miss J and Mr A have suffered no actual loss because even if the 
online balance had shown the true redemption figure, Miss J and Mr A would still have sold 
their property at the price they did, and so the amount they received from the sale would 
have been the same. 
I am aware that YB have made a goodwill payment in relation to a similar matter, but I 
cannot take that into account on the facts of this case. I do not know the detail of that other 
matter nor the basis upon which YB made the goodwill payment. It is clear from the little 
information I have that YB made the goodwill payment without prejudice to their position, or 
in other words without accepting that it had done anything wrong.
So, although Miss J and Mr A will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say YB 
has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman