DRN-1661581
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct, wont make reasonable 
adjustments for his disability, making it impossible for him to access his account via online 
banking.
What happened
Mr H has severe arthritis in his hands, and autism. When HSBC introduced a new security 
feature for its online banking service  a device for entering a security code on  Mr H said 
he was unable to press the buttons, and he became so frustrated with it that he smashed it 
with a hammer. HSBC said he could use the digital version instead, which is in the form of a 
mobile phone application or app. But Mr H said that although he has a smartphone, he does 
not use apps, and learning to use one would be too stressful, as would moving to a new 
bank.
HSBC offered to arrange for a disability charity to organise home visits to help him to log in 
to online banking. It also suggested that Mr H could use telephone banking instead. But 
Mr H was not satisfied with these solutions. He insisted that he should be allowed to 
continue to use online banking under the old security measures, and asked to be paid 
compensation for each day that he is forced to endure the new security measures. HSBC 
refused, so Mr H brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said HSBC had done enough to help Mr H 
continue to access his account, and that it did not have to water down its security. Mr H 
asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there has been some dispute between the parties about whether the new 
security measures were a legal requirement, or whether HSBC had only adopted them 
voluntarily, but I dont think that matters. Each bank is obliged to protect its customers 
accounts from the risk of fraud, and to that end each bank is entitled to review its security 
procedures from time to time and to increase them if it sees fit to do so. It is not the role of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service to tell a bank to reduce its security, either generally or 
with regard to a specific customer or category of customers. 
For that reason, while I accept that Mr H has disabilities within the meaning of the Equality 
Act, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to conclude that varying HSBCs 
security measures would be a reasonable adjustment to make.
Instead, I have focussed on what actions HSBC took, or offered to take, to assist Mr H in 
using its online banking facility once the new security was in place. I think that HSBC offered 
sensible and realistic alternatives. I have also taken into account the fact that even if Mr H 
remained unable to use online banking, he still had access to telephone banking as an 
alternative way of using his account. He frequently contacted HSBC by phone in the course 
of discussing his online banking issue, and so I think he still had meaningful access to his 
account.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman