DRN-3876109
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund money she lost 
as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mrs W was a single parent and carer for her two terminally ill parents. She was looking to 
purchase a car big enough to transport them, their wheelchairs and other equipment.
She found a suitable vehicle on a popular online marketplace. She contacted the seller and 
they sent her information, including a video of the vehicle. Mrs W paid for a third-party check 
of the vehicle. That check showed that it had previously been written off, but stated that the 
vehicle was not stolen.
Mrs W agreed with the buyer that shed pay a deposit by way of bank transfer and the 
remaining £20,000 in cash on delivery. 
She went to a branch of Halifax to make the deposit payment, as she wanted the security of 
knowing that the recipient account was genuine. Once bank staff verified the account, she 
paid the deposit. After she paid the deposit she received confirmation that the vehicle had 
been transferred into her name.
The vehicle was duly delivered and Mrs W handed over the cash to the seller. I understand 
she didnt have any issues with the vehicle until the following year, when the police informed 
her that it may have been stolen. It was subsequently removed from her possession and Mrs 
W was left without her money and the vehicle. 
She reported the matter to Halifax. It said that it would refund the bank transfer she made, 
because that payment was covered under the provisions of the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (CRM Code), which requires its signatories, like Halifax, to refund victims of 
authorised push payment scams in all but a limited number of circumstances. It also paid her 
£50 in compensation. Cash withdrawals are not covered under the CRM Code. It declined to 
refund the cash withdrawal on the basis that Mrs W had carried out fairly detailed checks, so 
it wouldnt have been able to uncover the scam.
Mrs W referred the matter to our service, but one of our Investigators didnt uphold her 
complaint. They agreed with Halifax that no intervention by it would have prevented the 
scam. 
Mrs W didnt agree, in summary she said:
-She had not decided to purchase the vehicle prior to visiting the branch. It was only 
because the bank had verified the recipient account and the third-party vehicle check 
didnt show any concerns, that she went ahead. 
-She ought to have been advised that cash withdrawals would not be reimbursed 
should they turn out to be made as a result of fraud. The bank is used to dealing with 
these situations and should have been looking out for her interests. She ought to 
have been advised only to make the payment by bank transfer.
-Bank staff may have deliberately not informed her that she wouldnt be covered, 
knowing that it would not be liable if something went wrong. 
-It was unfair to hold her responsible precisely because she had done checks, when 
shed also be responsible for the loss had she acted recklessly. 
-The bank fell short of its duty of care to her and this has had a significant impact on 
her and her family, which does not seem to be of any concern to the bank.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to learn about whats happened to Mrs W  shes been the victim of a very 
cruel scam and its clearly had a significant impact on her and her family. 
Theres no dispute here that Mrs W authorised the withdrawal of cash. And the relevant 
regulations say that Mrs W is responsible for payments shes authorised herself. As already 
mentioned, the CRM Code does not cover cash withdrawals. But, taking into account 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time these payments were made, I think Halifax should have 
been on the lookout for out of character and unusual transactions and other indications that 
its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud.
Its important to state that if I did find that Halifax made an error in this regard, in order to say 
that it should reimburse Mrs W, Id also need to conclude that its error caused her loss. 
Its evident that a £20,000 cash withdrawal was not typical account activity for Mrs W. I cant 
see that shed made any similar payments in the previous six months. Id also expect the 
bank to be aware that large cash withdrawals are likely to carry some risk (if nothing else, 
the risk of the customer carrying around a large sum of cash). So, Id expect reasonable 
enquiries to be made of Mrs W to establish the circumstances surrounding the payment. 
There are no notes to suggest this did happen and conflicting information about whether a 
checklist for high value payments was completed by branch staff. They do not recall Mrs Ws 
visit. So, theres no evidence to show that the bank did make proper enquiries about the 
payment, though Mrs W says she discussed it with the bank and showed it the checks shed 
carried out. In the absence of any evidence of a conversation, I think Halifax did make an 
error by failing to adequately question the payment.
But its not enough for me to conclude that Halifax made a mistake, I also need to decide 
that Halifaxs error caused Mrs Ws loss. Its important to state that its error here is that of not 
making further enquiries about the payment in order to establish whether Mrs W was at risk 
of financial harm from fraud. The fact that Mrs W went on to be defrauded does not, in and of 
itself, demonstrate that Halifax caused Mrs Ws loss. 
In this case, its very unlikely that the scam could have been revealed at the point Mrs W 
withdrew the cash. The actual risk here  that the car she was purchasing had been cloned 
and would be received, but eventually recovered by the police, was very difficult for bank 
staff to counter. The principal risk that Id reasonably expect bank staff to consider is that 
either the car would not be received at all or, in fact, Mrs W was falling victim to another type 
of scam (with the purchase of the car simply being a cover story). There would be little reason to think that the latter was the case  Mrs W had brought with her evidence of the 
particular vehicle and the checks that shed carried out on it. The former was a risk here  
Mrs W was making a payment by bank transfer without having seen the car in person. But, 
she didnt intend to handover the cash until she had received delivery of the vehicle (and 
after ownership of the vehicle had been transferred into her own name). 
So the obvious risk here related to the payment made by bank transfer, not the withdrawal of 
cash. I dont think it could have been within the reasonable contemplation of bank staff that 
Mrs W could have been subject to a scam if she took the steps that she advised them she 
would take (including to not handover the cash until the vehicle was in her possession). 
Thats particularly true as she was in possession of a third-party vehicle report which stated 
that the vehicle was not stolen and advised her how to check the VIN (albeit in a way which 
didnt counter the sophistication of this scam). 
Overall, I dont think that the actual scam could reasonably have been uncovered by bank 
staff and, in fact, the steps that Mrs W intended to take were broadly in line with the advice 
that Id expect the bank to give. 
Im afraid that I wouldnt expect bank staff to advise a customer to make a payment via bank 
transfer. Instead, Id expect them to advise customers to pay for goods or services by plastic 
card and, if that isnt possible, only to make a payment once the goods or services have 
been received. Thats because those methods of payment minimise (though clearly dont 
eliminate) the risk of fraud. Paying by bank transfer does not reduce the risk of fraud (in fact, 
quite the opposite is true), it just means that, in some limited circumstances, some banks will 
be responsible for reimbursing losses. So, I cant conclude that Halifax made an error by not 
advising Mrs W to pay by bank transfer and it follows that it cant be guilty of intentionally 
failing to give this advice either. The fact that Mrs W might have acted differently had she 
been provided with information about reimbursement in the event of a scam does not mean 
Halifax are at fault for not providing it. 
Mrs W puts weight on the suggestion that the account she was paying was verified. I 
understand Mrs W is referring to the fact that the account she was paying existed and was 
held in the same name as the person she was expecting to pay. While I can understand why 
this would have provided some reassurance to Mrs W, Ive seen nothing to suggest (and Mrs 
W has not claimed) that Halifax staff told her that this would entirely remove the risk that the 
person holding the account intended to defraud her. So, I cant see that Halifax made any 
assurances about the account, on which Mrs W relied.
 
I have every sympathy for Mrs W. Its evident that shes lost out simply because of the way 
that the payment was made and the circumstances of the scam, not because she acted at all 
carelessly. The opposite is true  this money was clearly important to her and she took 
entirely reasonable and sensible steps to ensure that the sale was legitimate. Im afraid that I 
simply cannot take her prudence into account when deciding the banks liability. The only 
issue I can consider is whether any error by the bank caused her loss. And, given the nature 
of the scam, I dont think any reasonable level of questioning by bank staff could have 
uncovered the scam. That means I cant hold it responsible for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 Rich Drury
Ombudsman