DRN-3112776
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in March 
2009 by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says that he wanted an account with an overdraft and Halifax offered him no alternative 
to an URCA which he says he didnt want and was not suitable for him.
Halifax says that Mr B knew he had a choice and chose to take out the URCA based on the 
information it gave him.
This sale took place in a branch and I wasnt there, so I cant know what was said. I can only 
base my decision on the evidence available today.
Both parties agree that prior to this sale Mr B had held a fee free account, so he knew these 
were available. From his records I can see that at the time of sale, Mr B had previously held 
bank accounts, taken out a mortgage and held insurance policies. He also says he was 
attracted to the Halifax by an incentive to switch accounts. 
So, in my view Mr B had substantial experience of financial matters and was aware of the 
financial marketplace. So I think its more likely than not that if Halifax had tried to force an 
account on Mr B where he thought he had to pay for an account with an overdraft, and he 
didnt want it, he would have declined and gone elsewhere and found what he wanted.
So, although I dont doubt his honest recollections, I think its more likely than not that Mr Bs 
memory is mistaken, and he knew he had a choice and he chose to take the URCA out.
Ive not seen any evidence such an assessment of Mr Bs circumstances by Halifax to 
suggest that it recommended the URCA to Mr B. And this service is aware that Halifaxs 
sales at the time were generally non-advised. So, I think its more likely than not that the sale 
was non-advised.
This means that Halifax was not required to ensure the URCA was suitable for Mr B, it only 
needed to give him enough information to make an informed choice about it.
And I think it did. I say this because Halifax was trying to sell the URCA to Mr B, so I think its 
more likely than not that it told him all about it. Mr B used the mobile phone insurance and 
the car breakdown service on multiple occasions, so he must have received the information 
that Halifax says it sent him. And I dont think there was anything that Halifax didnt tell Mr B 
that would have put him off.
So, although I know Mr B will be disappointed, in my view Halifax didnt do anything wrong in 
this sale, and I cant uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman