DRN-1548471
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2005. 
Ms M says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2005 Ms M took out PPI at the same time as taking out a credit card during a branch 
meeting.
The policy provided protection for Ms M's credit card payments in the event she 
couldn't work because of accident, sickness or unemployment (the policy also offered life 
and critical illness cover.) The policy would pay out a monthly benefit of 10% of the 
outstanding card balance for the three main elements of cover for up to 12 months per claim. 
It would pay off the entire balance (subject to limits) upon a successful claim for the life and 
critical illness elements of cover. It cost 78 pence for every £100 Ms M owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Ms M was employed, and she said she was entitled to sick pay of six 
months' full-pay followed by six months' half-pay. She said she had no other means she 
couldve used to make her repayments, and she was in good health at the time.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Ms M chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her. But they said BoS had offered to pay back some of the cost of the 
PPI to Ms M.
Because Ms M through her representative disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Ms Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms M's complaint. My reasons are set out below.
 
did Ms M have a choice about PPI? 
I think it's likely BoS made it clear that Ms M didn't have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.This was a sale by meeting. BoS doesn't have a copy of Ms M's credit card application / 
credit agreement. But it has provided us with an example agreement - an example we've 
seen before - which it says Ms M would've likely seen and completed when she took out her 
credit card. Looking at this there is a separate section about PPI and it required a customer 
to tick a box and to sign separately from the credit agreement itself to take out PPI.
So in the absence of persuasive evidence that something very different happened in Ms M's 
case, I think it's likely Ms M chose and agreed to take out PPI by ticking and signing her 
application as required.   
the advice
BoS says that as a branch sale it recommended the PPI to Ms M. This means BoS had to 
check that the PPI was right for Ms M  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time, I think that it was. For example, she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as those related to existing 
medical conditions and unusual employment circumstances; and she seems to have had a 
need for the cover.
Ms M says she had significant sick pay, so she didn't need the cover. But the PPI would've 
paid out in addition to any sick pay entitlement and for longer if necessary - up to 12 months 
per claim. Ms M also didn't have any other means such as savings she could've relied on to 
make her payments. So given Ms M's existing means and the cost and benefit proposition 
offered by the policy, I don't think it was wrong for BoS to have recommended PPI to Ms M.
the information  
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information BoS gave Ms M 
about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found above, I think she likely 
chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And based on her 
circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was inappropriate for her - so it seems like 
it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Ms M off taking out the 
cover. 
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesn't need to refund everything Ms 
M paid for it. But BoS has already offered and I understand already paid back to Ms M some 
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons above I've decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman