DRN-2521756
The complaint
Mr H has complained about JLT Wealth Management Limited. Hes unhappy that JLT will 
not provide evidence that he received advice about transferring his pension in 2017.
What happened
Mr H was a member of an occupational pension scheme. The scheme had defined benefits. 
In 2017 the scheme asked that he consider several options and he was referred to JLT for 
advice. JLT provided advice on his options and advised against a transfer out of the 
occupational scheme.
Mr H didnt transfer but in 2019 he reconsidered his position and decided that he wished to 
transfer to a stakeholder pension scheme and purchase an annuity. He says that in order to 
transfer the receiving scheme required evidence to show that he had received regulated 
advice about the transfer.
Mr H says that he asked JLT to provide the documentation, but it said that it would not 
permit him to transfer the pension based on advice provided in 2017. It would require a fresh 
review and up to date transfer advice in order to do this.
Mr H was unhappy about this and says that its unfair as he had to pay for any new advice.
JLT rejected the complaint. It said that there were valid reasons, both advisory and
regulatory, why it couldnt rely on advice provided to Mr H in 2017 and provide any 
attestation to the pension trustees in relation to a transfer two years after the original advice 
was provided. It said, in effect, that the advice was out of date.
Mr H didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. An investigator considered the 
complaint and decided that it shouldnt be upheld.
The investigator said that it was reasonable that JLT would want to review Mr Hs 
information and current circumstances to see whether the transfer would be suitable for him. 
His circumstance and the options available in 2017 may have changed so the advice from 
2017 would be outdated. The regulators rules say that a firm is entitled to rely on information 
provided by a client unless it is aware that the information is manifestly out of date.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said that if he had 
received confirmation of the 2017 advice from JLT he could have processed his pension as 
he wanted in 2019. However, because JLT wouldnt confirm he had received their advice he 
had to take new advice from another financial advisor at substantial cost. JLT didnt have 
reasonable grounds to refuse confirm the advice given in 2017. The advice he received in 
2017 was for the same unchanged pension in 2019. JLT advised not to transfer therefore 
there was no risk to it in confirming it had provided advice.
The investigator didnt change her view and the case has been referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the evidence and asked That Mr H provide some further information. He 
responded and said:
In April 2019 he had contacted JLT about helping with a transfer but because the 
pension transfer quote was about to expire, he delayed any further discussions with 
JLT.
He then identified that he might be able to transfer his defined benefit (DB) pension 
to his stakeholder pension, but he needed documentation to confirm he had received 
the necessary financial advice. 
He asked JLT about providing the documentation for the transfer. He sent an email 
which said: "I have a stakeholder pension into which I can transfer my DB pension 
however the stakeholder pension states that they can only receive my transfer via a 
financial advisor (as we all know this is a legal requirement). They say: ''The adviser 
can make us aware that they dont advise you to transfer, but as long as they send 
us your application/transfer forms and allow us to use their agency code we can 
proceed with the transfer.'' Do you think JLT can assist with providing this last part of 
the information as JLT have completed this process with me, to the stage of advising 
against the move already?"
JLT replied and said that if the pension trustees will agree to transfer a new CETV 
based on advice received on 2017 that would be their decision and, however we 
would not be prepared to have any part in the processing of a transfer based upon 
our advice from thenif JLT are to be involved we have to start the advice process 
from the beginning. We can consider your stakeholder plan in the process
Documentation was requested from the stakeholder pension and it said, we wouldnt 
be able to proceed with your transfer without a financial adviser being involved. 
Even if they have advised against the transfer, they would have to send us the 
business.The adviser can make us aware that they dont advise you to transfer, but 
as long as they send us your application/transfer forms and allow us to use their 
agency code we can proceed with the transfer.' (my emphasis).
Given this information I said to both parties:
The correspondence Mr H had disclosed from the stakeholder plan makes it clear 
that it required an adviser to be involved in the transfer. It clearly would have required 
JLT to do more than just confirm that it had advised him in 2017. So even if JLT had 
given that confirmation, that alone wouldnt have enabled him to transfer to the 
stakeholder plan.
Transfer advice like this is not a one-off event. The advice has to address more than 
just the consequences of leaving a DB scheme. The regulator is very clear in its 
guidance, an adviser must consider where the funds are being transferred to and 
assess the relative benefits.
So, if the intended destination of the funds after transfer in 2019 was different to the 
intended destination in 2017, the transfer was a different transaction and would 
require new (or at least additional) consideration and advice. That is only one factor 
which would distinguish the advice, in addition, there is a two-year gap and any 
change in circumstances during that period, and the fact that there would have to be 
a new transfer value. These are just some factors which would make the 2017 advice 
obsolete or outdated.
The regulator continues to express significant concerns about transfers out of DB 
pension schemes like this. It has relatively strict guidance. There is no doubt that the regulator would take a dim view of a firm that purported to facilitate a transfer out of a 
DB scheme based upon advice that wasnt contemporary to the transfer.
Most of the complaints this service receives about DB transfers are from consumers 
who are worse off because of the transfer out of the DB scheme. We would certainly 
question the suitability of advice to transfer if it was two years out of date, which 
would be the case here if the 2017 advice had been relied on.
Essentially, Mr H asked JLT to assist in the 2019 transfer. It declined to do so based 
on its 2017 advice and said it would need to start afresh. I dont think JLT can be 
criticised for that. DB transfer are a highly regulated area. The 2019 transfer was a 
different transaction to the one that it had advised on in 2017. It would be different 
purely due to the passage of time, but here there are added factors, Mr H referred to 
a change in personal circumstances, and the receiving fund had changed.
Even if JLT had agreed to confirm the 2017 advice, and its not clear to me that is all 
that Mr H had asked it to do, this alone would not have allowed the transfer to the 
stakeholder plan. The stakeholder plan clearly required more than that.
Mr H responded and said, in summary:
The hub of the complaint is that JLT wouldn't confirm it had given advice and told him 
not to transfer the DB pension in 2017. At that stage it was irrelevant that there may 
have been extra steps to go through.
He couldn't have been any clearer about what JLT was asked to provide. He copied 
the email verbatim.
The decision shouldnt be based on the extra steps which played no part in my 
complaint about that stage. The complaint has never been about not being able to 
transfer the pension.
He asks whether JLT would have provided a declaration to the DB pension trustees if 
asked.
Ive considered the additional information from Mr H but Im still of the view that this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
For context, the regulators guidance is clear that when advising on a transfer from a DB 
pension scheme it should be presumed that transfer will be unsuitable, and it should only be 
considered suitable if it is clearly in the consumers best interest (COBS 19.1.6G).
And in a policy statement from last year the FCA has reiterated that it is still concerned that 
too many consumers are transferring out of DB schemes (PS20/6).
I think that any caution JLT has exhibited about confirming the advice it gave in 2017 must 
be considered in that context.
As Ive said, the email correspondence Mr H has provided from the stakeholder plan makes 
it clear that it required an adviser to be involved in the transfer. I dont think its accurate to 
say that all JLT was asked to do was confirm its 2017 advice. Mr H says he couldnt have 
been clearer, but the email thread says that JLT would need to complete the transfer forms 
and use its agency code. Im satisfied that JLT was entitled to decline to do that without 
reconsidering the advice. Its original advice was two-years old. Circumstances may have 
changed, in fact Mr H says that there had been a change in his personal circumstances. But 
even if they hadnt, JLT would need to make some enquiry to confirm that. 
Transfer advice like this is not a one-off event. Mr H seems to have the impression that the 
advice hed received in 2017 was in some way definitive and for all time. But thats not right. 
Any transfer advice must address more than just the consequences of leaving a DB scheme. The fact the DB benefits were frozen doesnt mean that new advice isnt necessary. The 
regulator is very clear in its guidance that an adviser must consider where the funds are 
being transferred to and assess the relative benefits (see for instance its alert from January 
2013).
The intended destination of the funds in 2019 was different to that in 2017, so the 2019 
transfer was a different transaction. 
As Ive said, the regulator continues to express significant concerns about transfers out of 
DB pension schemes like this. Ive no doubt that the regulator would take a dim view of a 
firm that purported to facilitate a transfer out of a DB scheme based upon advice that wasnt 
contemporary to the transfer. It seems to me that this is what JLT was asked to do.
On the issue of the declaration, JLT confirmed to me that it hadnt been asked to complete a 
declaration when I asked the question directly. Mr H doesnt seem to contest that but asks 
whether it wouldve completed a declaration if he had asked for one. I dont think that is 
relevant to what Im deciding here, its a hypothetical question and doesnt have any direct 
bearing on my conclusions.
The correspondence from 2019 that Mr H has provided clearly asks JLT to do more than just 
confirm its 2017 advice. I dont think JLT was acting unfairly or unreasonably in declining to 
assist in the transfer without fresh advice. I dont think JLT was being unreasonable in 
considering that the 2017 advice was outdated.
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman