DRN-1718562
The complaint
X complains that Wesleyan Assurance Society (WAS) unfairly excluded his pension 
contributions when calculating his income protection benefit.
What happened
X took out an income protection policy with WAS. The policy was designed to provide a 
regular benefit in the event that illness or accident stopped X from being able to work. 
And after suffering from an illness, X made a claim on the policy. 
WAS accepted Xs claim and confirmed how much his maximum weekly benefit would 
be. They also noticed that X was over-insured so, as a gesture of goodwill, agreed to 
return the extra premiums hed paid. But X questioned how WAS had calculated the 
weekly benefit and said his pension contributions hadn't been included as part of his 
income. 
WAS explained that although Xs pension contributions were earned income, they were 
not taxed so were not considered to be insurable income. But X disagreed and 
complained, explaining his policy didnt reflect that pension contributions were not 
covered and said hed taken the policy out on the understanding that they were. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened and didnt think WAS had acted 
unreasonably in excluding Xs pension calculations in line with the terms and conditions of 
Xs policy because pension contributions werent taxable. But X disagreed and said his 
pensions contributions should have been included because he would have earned more 
had he chosen to not make them. So our investigator took another look at things and, on 
second review, thought that Xs complaint should be upheld. 
Our investigator explained that in some of their correspondence, WAS had said the reason 
the pension contributions were excluded was because they were considered a trading 
expense in line with the Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005. But our 
investigator didnt WAS had provided enough evidence to demonstrate that. So she 
recommended that WAS recalculate X's maximum weekly benefit to include his pension 
contributions. And she recommended that WAS paid X £150 in compensation to recognise 
the trouble and upset their position had caused too.
X agreed with our investigators recommendation and explained hed also taken a loan 
out and had gone into his overdraft because of the shortfall in the benefit received.
 
WAS disagreed with the recommendations and explained that claims for income 
protection were based on someones pre-tax profit  regardless of whether pension 
contributions were considered a trading expenses or not. They reiterated their underlying 
position, which was pension contributions werent taxable so were not considered 
insurable income under the policy. And so as no agreement was reached the matter was 
passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I didnt think this complaint should be 
upheld. I asked everyone to send me any further comments before I reached a final 
decision. And in summary, I said:
The terms and conditions of Xs policy explained what would be paid following a 
successful claim and set out how the maximum weekly benefit was calculated.
The policy terms and conditions also defined what WAS meant by income, and that 
definition stated: Your taxable earned income. This is the gross income you earn 
less any expenses which are allowable against income tax. 
Pension contributions werent taxed, so it wasnt unreasonable of WAS to exclude 
them when calculating Xs maximum weekly benefit. And although there wasnt 
enough to persuade me pension contributions were a trading expense, I wasnt 
persuaded that Xs policy was designed to cover pension contributions in any event. 
I couldnt fairly conclude that X had been told his pension contributions would be 
included by WASs financial consultant. 
I appreciated that whilst X had said hed taken out a loan and gone into his overdraft, 
I didnt think WAS had acted unreasonably in excluding Xs pension contributions so I 
wasnt minded to interfere with their decision. 
X responded to my provisional decision at length, but in summary he said:  
Hed been a long standing customer with WAS and had a number of policies with 
them; this policy was the latest to have started and hadnt been honoured.
Whether pension contributions were taxed or not was irrelevant. They were a part of 
Xs earned income and his policy didnt specifically exclude pension contributions. 
WASs financial consultant didnt tell X that pension contributions would not be 
insurable. That matter had only come up when X had claimed, but WAS had 
previously had many opportunities to tell X about that when selling other policies. 
Where issues werent explained at the formation of an insurance contract it was 
unreasonable and unacceptable, and it was a breach of the Consumer Protection Act 
2015.
WASs financial consultant should have attached appropriate importance to Xs 
income and pension contributions. There was no reason why pension contributions 
werent clarified in WASs policy documentation, and a simple internet search 
showed that other companies were being transparent in that area. 
WASs product wasnt fit for purpose, they were continuing to mis-sell the policy 
despite being aware of the issues Xs complaint had highlighted.  And the policy 
should have clear guidance that pension contribution changes will affect it. 
WAS responded to my provisional decision and said they didnt have any further comments 
to make. They advised that they would await my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons. 
X has set out his position in detail and I would like to thank him for taking the time to do so. I 
will only be commenting on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint 
though, which means I may not address every single point or argument thats been raised. I 
trust that X wont take that as a matter of discourtesy. I appreciate X has said whether his pension contributions are taxed or not should not matter 
in this complaint and his policy doesnt specifically exclude them. But as I set out in my 
provisional decision, the terms and conditions of Xs policy do explain what WAS will do 
where a claim is accepted. And they do set out how any eligible benefit is calculated. They 
state:
If we accept a claim we will work out the total weekly benefit payable as follows:
a. If you are working in your normal occupation when your incapacity starts we will 
pay the lower of:
The full amount of income protection benefit at the time, or
The maximum weekly benefit defined in Condition 8.
The terms and conditions of Xs policy continue:
We will work out the maximum weekly benefit referred to in condition 7 in the following way:
First we take 50% of the first £150,000 (this figure will increase at the same rate as any 
annual indexation increase in your benefit) of your income before incapacity plus 40% of 
any amount over that sum and divide by 52 to obtain the weekly equivalent.
And in relation to income, they specifically define that as being: 
Income  Your taxable earned income. This is the gross income you earn less 
any expenses which are allowable against income tax.
So as I set out previously, given that Xs pension contributions werent taxed, I dont think it 
was unreasonable of WAS to exclude them in line with the terms and conditions of his policy. 
I appreciate the wider concerns that X has raised about his policy (for example it not stating 
that a change in pension contributions will affect any benefit amounts), as well as the 
implications X says this decision will have on him and potentially others. But for the reasons 
given above, I am not persuaded that Xs policy was designed to cover Xs pension 
contributions, and I think WAS acted in line with its terms and conditions. 
X has said that he had a number of policies with WAS whod previously had opportunities to 
bring the penision contribution matter to his attention. But the complaint I am deciding here is 
in relation to this policy, and so I am not in a position to comment on any previous 
interactions that X and WAS might have had outside of this. 
I acknowledge that X has said appropriate importance should have been attached to his 
income and pension contributions when his policy was sold, and that WASs financial 
consultant didnt tell him his pension contributions would not be insured. But whilst I 
appreciate X was under the impression his pension contributions would be covered, I wasnt 
privy to the sale of Xs policy and I can only assess matters based on the evidence that is 
available to this service now. 
Looking at what has been made available in relation to the sale of Xs policy, and as I quoted 
in my provisional decision, I can see that WASs financial consultant said:
The benefits payable under an income protection policy depend upon your income and 
associated benefits. Any advice I provide can only be based up the information provided 
in relation to your current circumstances. Furthermore, my calculations are based on 
Wesleyans benefit rules...
And:Greater detail on the contract advised and any associated risks can be found in the 
relevant personal illustration and Key Features Document that were provided and fully 
discussed.
Further, the Key Features Document that was highlighted set out that all of the features in 
Xs policy could be found in his policy documentation:
These Key Features give a summary of the Premier Income Protector product. They do not 
include all the definitions, exclusions, and terms and conditions. These are all set out on the 
policy document
I have already set out what the terms and conditions of Xs policy state in relation to his 
income and how the weekly benefit is calculated. And although I understand X has said that 
up until his claim hed been under the impression his pension contributions were covered, I 
cannot definitively conclude that such matters were not explained at the formation of his 
contract with WAS. However, I am satisfied that Xs attention was drawn to his policy 
documentation, and that explains how WAS define income and how they calculate the 
weekly benefit.
X remains concerned about WAS continuing to sell this policy. And I appreciate the 
comments hes made about how much his pension contributions currenly are and other 
providers being more transparent about this issue. But again, my involvement in this 
complaint has focussed on the actions of WASs decision to exclude Xs pension 
contributions in line with the terms and conditions of his policy. 
I do empathise with the position X is in and I understand why he is frustrated by WASs 
position, but for the reasons given above and within my provisional decision, I am not of the 
opinion that WAS acted unreasonably in excluding Xs pension contributions from their 
calculations. So I will not be interefering with their deicison. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2020.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman