DRN-2876488
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund a disputed transaction, it dealt with 
his application for a chargeback unfairly, it unhelpfully credited and debited numerous 
payments from his account and he was unable to contact its customer service department 
when he tried to complain.
To settle his complaint, Mr M would like a refund of an outstanding disputed transaction, an 
apology and to be compensated for the time it has taken for him to complain.
What happened
Mr Ms initial complaint to Barclays was regarding a disputed payment to E  an online travel 
agent.  He said E had taken a holiday payment twice and having spoken to them, they had 
said the fault did not lie with them but with Barclays.  He wanted Barclays to refund this 
payment of just over £1912.  He said he had tried to contact Barclays on the telephone but 
had been unable to speak to anyone.
In its final response to Mr M, Barclays said that it also had been unable to speak to Mr M but 
had completed its investigation and could not uphold his complaint.  It said a refund had 
been made to his account for not only £1912 but for the additional payment Mr M had had to 
make for re-booking his holiday.  It explained that the merchant had also refunded the 
amount of £1912 by making two separate payments of £956.
Mr M didnt think this was a satisfactory response, so he brought his complaint to this 
service.  He said Barclays had also made an error in relation to a chargeback request and 
asked us to look into matters for him.
Our investigator didnt think he could ask Barclays to do anymore.  He explained to Mr M 
that considering the transactions on his account, it appeared that Barclays had credited his 
account with the sums even though E had also made a refund.  And he didnt think Mr M 
was out of pocket in relation to any chargeback requests either.
But Mr M didnt accept the investigators view.  He asked that an ombudsman consider his 
complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I agree with the investigator and I wont be upholding Mr Ms 
complaint.
I think the investigator has explained to Mr M in detail why he didnt think he could ask 
Barclays to do anymore  so Ill only repeat the facts that form the basis of my decision.  
However, I can assure both Mr M and Barclays that I have read the file  including all the 
evidence.
Barclays has helpfully provided us with the statements from Mr Ms account which cover the 
relevant period.  I know Mr M has seen these too.  So, my starting point was to make a note 
of payments to E which credited and debited Mr Ms account.
Ive then considered the payments which Barclays credited and debited  specifically in 
relation to the holiday with E and the chargeback requests Mr M made.  
Having done so, it seems to me that Mr M is in credit as a result of these transactions and 
not in debit as he thinks he is.  I accept that the payments are confusing and on a number of 
occasions, money is debited and then immediately credited back to the account.  But I cant 
see that this is something Barclays has done.  In fact, it seems to me that E is the culprit 
here.
As far as Barclays is concerned, I have considered the transactions dated 15th May and 6th 
June  two credits for £99.57, a further two for the same amount credited on 17th June, then 
two debits for this amount on 27th August, followed by a further credit for £99.57 on 3rd 
September.
I have also noted the credit, debit and re-credit from E for two amounts of £956.34 on 24th 
July and the credit from Barclays on 3rd August 2020 for £1912 and £284.
Finally, I can see that Barclays has also applied goodwill gestures to Mr Ms account. It told 
this service that this was for £75 but it seems to me that two further payments of £50 each 
were also paid into his account on 3rd September.
So, Im afraid I cant agree that Mr M is due a refund.  In fact, he seems to have received 
more than that thus far.  The same applies in relation to the chargeback requests.
Its unfortunate that Mr M was unable to contact Barclays at a time convenient for him but Im 
not satisfied that he ought to be compensated for this because I think Barclays has already 
dealt with his complaint in a fair and reasonable way.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman