DRN-4138226
The complaint
Mr M has a joint mortgage with a person Ill refer to as Miss H. The mortgage is with 
Santander UK plc (Santander). He complains that Santander applied a new interest rate 
product to the mortgage without his consent.
What happened
Mr M says he separated from Miss H in 2019 and made Santander aware of the situation. 
He says he was assured that no changes could be made to the mortgage without his 
consent. However, in late 2022 Santander gave Mrs M a new fixed interest rate product on 
the mortgage without his permission. Previously the mortgage had been on a variable 
interest rate.
Mr M says he feels ignored/bypassed and that Santander has sided with Mis H in his dispute 
with her. He points out that he has equal rights to the property in question. He says he 
wouldnt have agreed to the new fixed interest rate product but hes affected by it now. 
Santander said it didnt make a mistake when it applied the fixed interest rate product to the 
mortgage. It said it had the right to allow it to be changed with the consent of one of the joint 
parties as long as no detriment was caused to the other account holder. It didnt think there 
was any detriment to Mr M as the new product didnt have an early repayment charge 
(ERC) or booking fee, so no charges would apply if the property was to be sold.
Mr M disagreed so he complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the matter. He said he could understand why Mr M was annoyed 
if he was given incorrect information in 2019 about whether Santander could make changes 
to the mortgage without his consent. But he didnt think the new product caused Mr M any 
detriment because it didnt have an ERC or booking fee. So it didnt put in place a barrier to 
the property being sold. He thought Santander was right to give Miss H the fixed interest rate 
product given what shed told it about her circumstances.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Ill begin by saying that I understand why Mr M is annoyed by what has happened. He is the 
joint mortgage holder so he (along with Miss H) is jointly and severally liable for the 
mortgage. He is clear that Santander assured him in 2019 that it understood there was a 
dispute between him and Miss H and that no changes could be made to the mortgage 
without his consent. 
In the circumstances I can understand why he feels he should have been consulted about 
the fixed interest rate product.
However, Santander was required to consider the best interests of both customers in relation 
to the mortgage. Miss H asked for the fixed interest product and explained her 
circumstances for wanting it. Having considered the information Santander has provided me 
with I cant say that it was wrong to give Miss H the product she asked for it as it considered 
it to be in her best interests. The new mortgage product didnt have an ERC or a booking fee 
that might put a barrier/disincentive in place to stop the property being sold as Mr M wanted. 
Mr M has told us he doesnt think the interest rate was in his best interests. He thinks that if 
the mortgage remained on the variable interest rate, Miss H would have been more likely to 
sell the property, as he wanted. I understand his position, but Im not persuaded it was in the 
best interests of either party (each of whom were jointly and severally liable for the 
mortgage) for the costs of maintaining it to be higher than they needed to be. If the mortgage 
was to fall into arrears both Mr Ms and Miss Hs credit files would be affected. That would 
have an impact on both of them if they wanted to get credit in the future.
Its clear that Mr M thinks Santander acted unethically in this case. He has asked me to 
comment on that. I dont think it has for the reasons set out above.
Mr M has also complained that he wasnt provided with the terms of the new product. I can  
see that Santander wrote to him at the address we have on file for him in late 2022 to say 
that the transfer to the new mortgage product had been completed. However, I cant see 
(from the information provided to me) that he was sent the terms of its offer before that. I can 
appreciate how this added to Mr Ms feeling that hed been side-lined, and that the fixed rate 
product was imposed on him. I dont underestimate Mr Ms strength of feeling about this 
issue. If hed received Santanders offer before it was accepted by Miss H he would have 
been in a position to speak to Santander about it sooner. However, I think its unlikely that it 
would have changed the outcome of what happened. I say that because I think its likely that 
Santander would have given Miss H the fixed interest rate product anyway for the reasons 
set out above  even if it was clear in advance that Mr M didnt want it to be applied to the 
account.
In the circumstances, and taking the matter as a whole, I dont think Santander needs to do 
anything to resolve this complaint. I can see why Mr M has been frustrated by Santanders 
handling of the issues raised in this complaint, but I cant say that Santander made a mistake 
when it applied the fixed interest product to the account. Nor do I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to require it to compensate Mr M for its handling of this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman