DRN-2599412
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) declined his claim for storm damage.
What happened
Mr T had buildings and contents insurance with GLI, including accidental damage. He made 
a claim under his insurance after water leaked through his roof and into his home during a 
storm. GLI asked Mr T to get a quote for repairs and send a report of the damage.
Mr Ts roofer inspected the roof, pushed a tile back into position and prepared a quote for 
the repairs. Because he couldnt get a second quote, Mr T asked GLI to arrange one. The 
contractor reported that the roof damage was due to wear and tear, so GLI declined the roof 
claim, but it accepted the claim for internal repairs under the accidental damage cover.
Mr T complained to GLI because he didnt think it had shown that there was evidence of 
wear and tear. After our involvement, GLI provided details of the report to explain why it 
considered wear and tear was the main cause of the damage. Mr T remained unhappy.
Our investigator thought GLI had fairly declined Mr Ts claim because the evidence 
supported its view that the storm had simply highlighted parts of the roof in need of repair.
Mr T didnt agree. He said the tile which his roofer had pushed back into position needed a 
permanent repair and he expected his insurance to cover that.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr T will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The complaint is about GLIs decision to decline Mr Ts claim under his buildings insurance 
for damage to his roof which he believes was caused by a storm. GLI doesnt think the storm 
was the main cause of damage.
Mr Ts policy covers storm damage, and GLI has accepted the claim for the internal repairs. 
To determine whether his claim for storm damage to the roof is covered, I considered three 
points:
whether there was a storm;
whether the damage is consistent with that typically caused by a storm;
whether the damage was caused wholly or mainly by the storm.
Theres no dispute that there was a storm, or that the damage to Mr Ts roof is typical of that 
caused by a storm. The issue, then, is whether the storm was the main cause of the 
damage.
GLI says the roof showed signs of wear and tear, and evidence of previous repairs where 
the water leaked through. Therefore, GLI declined the claim because the storm highlighted 
areas of disrepair rather than caused damage. Mr T says that the storm caused a tile to slip 
and his roofer performed a temporary repair by pushing it back into place when he assessed 
the damage.
I dont think theres any dispute that a tile slipped. But Mr T provided a quote for repairs 
which goes beyond a permanent fix for a single roof tile. The quote included repairs to the 
lead flashing, window, and chimney rendering. Arguably, the roof has been fixed already 
because the tile is back in place, but Mr T said some of the work is needed to create a solid 
base for the tile to be securely fixed to. But that suggests to me that the roof needs 
maintenance repairs more generally. And if that maintenance work is needed before a 
permanent fix, the logical conclusion is that the tile wouldnt have been securely fixed before 
the storm. On that basis, I think it was fair for GLI to decline Mr Ts claim because the roof 
showed signs of wear and tear which is likely to have been the main cause of the tile slipping 
during the storm.
I understand what Mr T says about the additional repairs being needed because rendering 
and flashing would need to be removed to securely fix the tile in place, and therefore need 
replacing afterwards. But, as Ive explained above, if the roof was not showing signs of wear 
and tear, then I think its unlikely that the extra work would be necessary to fix the tile in 
place.
In summary, Im satisfied that GLI fairly declined Mr Ts claim because the storm only 
highlighted the need for repairs to areas of roof showing signs of wear and tear which is 
excluded under the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman