DRN-3034586
The complaint
Ms S complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement with
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).  
What happened
Ms S entered into an agreement with Moneybarn in December 2019 for a car. The car was
around four and half years old and had travelled approximately 52,000 miles. The cash price
of the car was £6,100 and this entire sum was financed with Moneybarn.
Ms S says that shortly after she collected the car there were two problems with it, a corroded
earth wire after two days and a problem with the battery after two weeks, both which were
repaired at no cost to her.
Ms S says the car then broke down in January 2020 and it was due to be inspected by the
supplying dealership in February 2020, but it wasnt because she fell seriously ill.
Ms S felt well enough to contact Moneybarn in June 2020 to explain the problems she had
experienced with the car and to explain that she would like to reject it. Following contact from
Ms S, Moneybarn arranged for an independent inspection of the car to be undertaken. The
car was inspected at Ms S address where the car still remains.
The inspection concluded that as well as successful repairs to the battery being evident,
there were other issues with the car which, on balance, would have been developing at the
point of sale (emissions and wear to both front suspension arms). The date of this inspection
was 27 August 2020 and showed that Ms S had travelled approximately 3,000 miles in the
car since acquiring it.
Following receipt of the above inspection report Moneybarn wrote to Ms S to say that it
wouldnt accept rejection of the car. But the supplying dealership had agreed to accept
liability for the emissions issue, and it (Moneybarn) might be prepared to meet, as a gesture
of goodwill, the cost of repairing the suspension issues.
Moneybarn also paid Ms S £150 for what it accepts were delays on its part in investigating
her complaint and providing her with a response.
Ms S made the contractual monthly payments required of her for January, February and
March 2020 of £197.62. Moneybarn then granted Ms S a payment holiday for five months.
This meant that Ms S wasnt required to make, and didnt make, the monthly payments due
to be paid by her in April, May, June, July and August 2020.
Moneybarn tried to collect Ms S monthly payment for September 2020, but this was
returned unpaid by Ms S bank. No further payment attempts were made by Moneybarn after
this date meaning Ms S account started to accrue arrears.
Unhappy with Moneybarns response to her complaint, Ms S referred it to our service for
investigation.
Ms S complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it should be
upheld and that Moneybarn should:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Ms S
refund Ms S deposit/part exchange contribution if made
refund Ms S monthly payments for the period 22 February 2020 to the date of
settlement as Ms S had reasonably stopped using the car at this point in time
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until
the date of settlement
pay Ms S a further £200 for the trouble and upset this whole matter had caused her
remove any adverse information from Ms S credit file in relation to the
agreement
Ms S responded to say that she accepted the investigators conclusion, however Moneybarn
said it didnt.
In summary Moneybarn said that:
The issue with the battery (which was successfully repaired at no cost to Ms S) is
widely accepted to be a wear and tear item and wouldnt render the car
unsatisfactory.
The issues relating to the emissions system (and fuel pressure system) cant
realistically be linked to the failure of the battery and therefore the supplying
dealership should be given one opportunity to repair these issues.
The supplying dealership shouldnt be held liable for not identifying and addressing
faults that hadnt materialised at the time of sale.
Its offer was and is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
A view had been reached without the investigator being aware of the cars location,
whether any deposit had been paid, or a part exchange allowance given, and what
payments (if any) had been made by Ms S against her agreement liability.
Because Moneybarn didnt accept the investigators view, and because the investigator
wasnt persuaded to change his mind, Ms S complaint was passed to me for review
and decision.  
I issued a provisional decision on this case in August 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.Secondly, I would add that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or
contradictory, as some of its here, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ms S acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Ms S.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that there was an issue with a corroded earth wire and with
the battery, shortly after Ms S acquired the car, that were fixed at no cost to her.
I note that Moneybarn says these two issues could be viewed as minor. But the fact remains
that these two issues occurred very shortly after Ms S had acquired the car and after she
had added very few miles to it. And in my view this, together with the fact that both issues
required repair and were repaired at no cost to Ms S, meant the car was indeed of
unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Ms S says the car broke down in January 2020 and given it was scheduled to be inspected
by the supplying dealership in February 2020, Im satisfied that this was the case.
Ms S car was inspected in late August 2020 where it was identified that there were new
issues with it that on balance would have been developing at the point of supply.
Now Moneybarn suggests that given the issues identified by the inspection dont flow from
previous failed repairs, then Ms S has no right to reject the car. However, I disagree.
Although Ms S lost her rights to reject the car following the corroded earth wire and the
battery issue being repaired, she had a final right to reject to the car when further issues with
the car, which Moneybarns own appointed inspection identified as being  on balance 
developing at the point of supply, occurred.
The relevant law sets out that Ms S can exercise her final right of rejection if there has
already been one repair carried out and the car continues to be of unsatisfactory quality. For
clarity, the relevant law doesnt say that any further issues are required to be linked in any
way to a previous repair, or how minor those previous repairs might be viewed to be.
So, given what I say above, I find that Ms S is able to reject the car.
As well as being able to reject the car, Ive gone on to consider what else, if anything,
Moneybarn should have to do to fairly compensate Ms S.
Given that Ive found that Ms S should be able to reject the car, if follows that Moneybarn
should have to collect it from Ms S at no cost to her.
Despite finding that the car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied, and that Ms S
should be able to reject it, I think that its only fair that she should pay for the use she has
had of the car.Now given the agreement started on 4 December 2019, Ms S says the car broke down in
January 2020 and was scheduled to be inspected and/or repaired by the supplying
dealership in February 2020 and that Ms S had added approximately 3,000 miles to it whilst
in her possession, I think that Ms S should be held liable for two monthly payments  in
essence covering the period December 2019 and January 2020.
Now given that Ms S has made three monthly payments against her agreement, I find that
Moneybarn should refund the payment made by Ms S in March 2020 together with interest.
Whilst the car has been kept at her home address, Ms S, as I would expect her to, has been
insuring it. Now in my view Ms S shouldnt have to bear this cost, or at least not all of it.
Ms S has provided evidence of the cost of insuring the car for the period 1 July 2020 to
30 June 2021 and 1 July 2021 to 30 June 2021 [sic]. Now based on these submitted costs, 
and given that Ms S in essence has been insuring the car whilst having no use of it for 19 
months since February 2020 and for 12 months since it was inspected in August 2020 (and 
will have to continue insuring it up to the point in time its collected from her), I find that 
Moneybarn should have to pay her £400.
Im unaware of what adverse information, if any, has been recorded by Moneybarn against
Ms S name with credit reference agencies. But in my view if any adverse information has
been recorded this should be removed.
Finally, I would add that I agree with the investigator that this whole matter has caused Ms S
a degree of distress and inconvenience for which she should be fairly compensated. And
taking everything into account I agree that payment of £200 represents an appropriate sum
in this respect.
Moneybarn didnt respond to my provisional decision by the date given.
Ms S responded to say that she accepted my provisional decision but:
There appeared to be a typographical error in my provisional decision. I made 
reference to her having paid for insurance for the period 1 July 2021 to 30 June 2021 
rather than 1 July 2021 to 30 June 2022.
I appear to have made no award for insurance costs incurred by her for the period 
December 2019 to June 2020 inclusive, or for her MOT test and certificate dated 
December 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Ms S accepted my provisional decision and given that Moneybarn didnt respond 
to it, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm them as final.
However, for the sake of completeness and clarity, I would make the following comments:
I accept there is a typographical error in my provisional decision and I should have made 
reference to insurance paid for the period I July 2021 to 30 June 2022, rather than 
1 July 2021 to 30 June 2021. However, this typographical error has no bearing on my 
findings.I awarded Ms S £400 for insurance costs having taken a holistic approach to the issue and 
having regard to the fact that although Ms S may have had no use of the car since 
February 2020, and possibly only had impaired use of it before this date, she didnt  for 
reasons I fully understand  refer the matter to Moneybarn until June 2020 and the car 
wasnt inspected until August 2020.
I appreciate that Ms S paid for an MOT test and certificate in December 2020. But given the 
cost of this was only £20, and given my decision to award £400 for insurance costs and 
£200 for distress and inconvenience, I felt it was entirely fair and reasonable to not make a 
specific award for this cost.
My final decision
My final  decision is that I uphold this complaint and Moneybarn No. 1 Limited must:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay
collect the car at no cost to Ms S
refund to Ms S the monthly payment she made in March 2020 of £197.62
pay 8% simple yearly interest on the above sum of £197.62 from the date of payment
until the date of settlement*
pay Ms S £400 in respect of insurance costs
pay Ms S £200 for the trouble and upset this whole matter had caused her
remove any adverse information from Ms S credit file in relation to the
agreement
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to take tax off this interest.
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited must give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if
Ms S asks for one.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman