DRN-4050287
The complaint
Mr O complains AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled his motor insurance claim poorly.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr Os parked vehicle was involved in a collision with a lorry. He feels the third 
party driving the lorry was at fault. The driver left the scene without Mr O getting their details 
or registration. He claimed for the loss against his AXA motor insurance policy. The insurer 
arranged and covered the cost of repairs to Mr Os vehicle. 
AXA was provided with CCTV footage of the incident by the car parks owner. But it said due 
to the quality of the video it was unable to identify the registration of the lorry so couldnt 
pursue a claim against its insurer. So it closed the claim as an unrecovered cost (or fault) 
against Mr O. He had to pay his policys excess and lost his no claims bonus (NCD).  
In September 2022 AXA responded to a complaint from Mr O. He wasnt happy that it had 
failed to pursue the third-party insurer. AXA said the footage isnt clear enough to read the 
lorrys registration number, so it was unable to identify its insurer to pursue a recovery of 
costs. It said it had followed the correct process for the claim. It accepted it had failed to 
update Mr O and had taken too long to respond to him on occasion. To recognise this it 
offered him £125 compensation.
Mr O wasnt satisfied as AXA, still denying the registration and insurer of the lorry could be 
identified, still hadnt sought to recover the claim costs. So he came to this service. He said 
to resolve his complaint he would like AXA to take various steps including pursuing a costs 
recovery claim against the third-party, refund the policy excess, reinstate his NCD and pay 
£2,000 him compensation for inconvenience and costs. 
In February 2023 our investigator viewed Mr Os copy of the footage. He said the registration 
and company logo of the third-party lorry was identifiable. He sent AXA images showing the 
registration. He recommended it pursue the third-party  and pay Mr O an additional £100 
compensation. In April 2023 AXA agreed to that that outcome and reopened the claim to 
pursue recovery of costs. Mr O didnt accept the compensation awarded.  He said £2,000 
compensation would be more appropriate. So he requested an ombudsman consider the 
complaint. 
In June 2023 AXA again told Mr O it was unable to identify the registration details. This 
service then sent AXA further photos and a CD of the CCTV footage. In mid-August 2023 
AXA accepted the registration details could be seen, identified the lorrys insurer and began 
a claim for recovery of costs. 
In September 2023 I sent Mr O and AXA my thoughts on the complaint. I said I intended to 
require AXA to pay him an additional £350 compensation.  I explained I hoped to resolve the 
complaint, with both parties agreement, without the need for a formal final decision. AXA 
agreed to my proposed increased compensation. However, Mr O didnt respond so Ive 
issued this decision. Ive reached the same outcome as Id set out to the parties previously. 
Ive summarised my reasoning below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os requested his NCD be reinstated and his excess be refunded. The NCD is linked to 
the outcome of the recovery claim  so it would be inappropriate for me to require AXA to 
reinstate it here regardless of its handling of the claim. 
I dont intend to require AXA to refund the policy excess. The excess would apply, in line 
with the terms of the policy, regardless of any poor handling of the claim by AXA. Mr O may 
be able to recover the excess from the third-party insurer. He should speak to AXA about 
this. 
However, I feel its reasonable to increase the amount of compensation paid by AXA. I dont 
intend to provide a detailed timeline or assessment of events here. Ive instead given a 
summary of my thoughts on whats happened.  
I can understand Mr Os frustration with AXA. It did have video footage but repeatedly said it 
couldnt identify the registration number. This was despite others, including this service, 
being able to do so. 
There are two different clips. One shows the registration clearly, the second doesnt. It 
seems AXA was initially only provided with the second clip. I can see it re-requested footage 
from the car park owner  so was trying to address Mr Os concerns. It seems it was again 
only provided with the second clip. Its possible AXA could have done more during this 
period, but overall Im satisfied it handled the claim reasonably well up until late 2022. 
I havent been provided with much to show what happened from late 2022 to February 2022. 
Theres little in the way of case notes, for example. Mr O says he sent AXA copies of the 
videos, but I havent seen anything to confirm that. 
However, after this services involvement AXA accepted, in April 2023, that the registration 
could be viewed. It agreed to reopen the claim and seek recovery. But it failed to do so 
despite having this information  bizarrely again claiming it couldnt identify the registration 
number. That was despite its own complaint handler having confirmed sight of it. It wasnt 
until Mid-August 2023, and after our further involvement, that it contacted the third-party 
insurer to seek recovery.
If the claim is settled in Mr Os favour AXA should allow reinstatement of his NCD. Its worth 
noting, if that happens, he could contact his current insurer to explain the reinstatement and 
request a refund of any difference in premium. 
AXAs clearly responsible for a fair amount of delay and confusion with the claim. I can see 
this has caused Mr O a reasonable level of frustration and inconvenience. Hes referred to 
numerous trips made to source the video footage. He felt the need to take on a 
representative  although he hasnt, despite requests, provided evidence of his costs for 
that. Being told again in June 2023 that AXA couldnt identify the third-party registration must 
have caused him additional frustration and distress. 
Overall I feel a total of £475 (meaning an additional £350 to that offered by AXA in its 
complaint response) is a fair amount to recognise the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience Mr O experienced. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr O a total of £475 
compensation (£350 to what its already offered him).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman