DRN-1662674
 
The complaint
Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In my provisional decision of February 2020, I explained how Mr M took out a Barclays credit 
card in 1997 through the post. A few weeks later, Barclays sold him PPI over the phone to 
protect his card repayments if he couldnt work due to disability or unemployment. It also 
included life cover.
I didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold and set out why. My reasons included that I was 
satisfied, given the available information, that:
There wasnt evidence to show Mr M was pressured into taking the PPI. And, at the 
same time, that he was probably aware he had a choice about taking the PPI and 
likely agreed to go ahead with it.
Barclays recommendation that Mr M take the PPI wasnt unsuitable considering, for 
example, that he was eligible for the cover and stood to benefit from it despite his 
employers sick pay and redundancy pay arrangements and the savings he says hed 
built up.
Barclays might not have given Mr M all the information it should have about the PPI, 
but this likely didnt affect his decision to take it since it was otherwise right for him 
and appeared to be affordable.
Barclays didnt need to do anything to put things right for Mr M.
 
I asked the parties to provide any further comments or information in response to my 
provisional decision before I reconsidered the complaint. 
Neither party had anything more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. I say that because the evidence and 
submissions provided prior to my provisional decision led me to believe Mr M hadnt lost out 
because of how Barclays had sold him the PPI. And nothing new's been provided that would 
lead me to change my mind about that.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman