DRN-3203387
The complaint
Mr G and Ms M complain about The Protection Specialist Limited trading as The Fair Trade 
Practice (TPS) and the settlement fee they are being charged for work they think was 
completed by another Claims Management Company (CMC).
What happened
On 9 August 2019, Mr G and Ms M signed a letter of authority (LOA) instructing TPS to 
pursue a claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) against lender H on their 
behalf. As the fee TPS is charging relates to an account in Mr Gs sole name, Ive referred to 
Mr G only where necessary throughout the decision.
Following this authority, TPS submitted a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to lender H 
on 20 August, with lender H responding on 17 December. TPS asked Mr G to complete a 
PPI questionnaire, which he did and returned to TPS on 14 January 2020. TPS then 
submitted Mr Gs claim to lender H on 20 January. 
But Mr G has explained he authorised another CMC, who Ill refer to as W, to submit this 
claim on his behalf before TPS. And following Ws work, the claim was upheld by lender H 
on 30 December 2019, with Mr G receiving his refund on 16 January 2020 and paying the 
associated settlement fee to W on 23 January, a week later.
Despite this, Mr G and Ms M continued to chase TPS for updates on the status of the claim. 
And in the summer of 2021, TPS were notified by lender H that Mr Gs claim had been 
successful in January 2020. So, TPS invoiced Mr G for their settlement fee for this claim. Mr 
G was unhappy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr G didnt think TPS were fair to invoice him for a settlement fee as the claim had been 
successful due to the work completed by W in 2020. And Mr G explained hed already paid 
W for this. So, he wanted TPS to waive their fee and cease chasing him for payment.
TPS didnt agree. They thought theyd acted in line with the terms of the agreement Mr G 
entered into when invoicing him for their fee. As the claim had been successful, they thought 
they were entitled to charge Mr G this fee and didnt think it was their fault Mr G had 
instructed two CMCs for the same claim. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more and maintained the fee was payable. Mr G was unhappy with this response, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They recognised TPS had been 
instructed by Mr G to pursue the claim that had been successful. And they appreciated that 
TPS had pursued this claim in good faith. But they were satisfied the claim was successful 
due to the work W completed, not TPS, as the claim was upheld before TPS submitted a full 
claim. So, they didnt think the fee was payable and thought it should be waived. But they did 
think TPS could invoice Mr G for the work theyd completed on the claim and explained due 
to the length of time since Mr G received the refund, TPS should act positively and 
sympathetically to any problems Mr G may have when paying the new invoice.
Mr G responded and accepted our investigators recommendation but did query what TPS 
new invoice was likely to be. 
TPS rejected our investigators recommendation, reiterating their belief theyd acted fairly, 
and in line with their terms and conditions by charging Mr G a fee based on the refund hed 
received from lender H. They referred to other complaints our service had investigated and 
felt our investigators recommendation didnt fall in line with these. They also reiterated their 
point about lender H not making them aware of Ws involvement when they received a 
response to their DSAR. So, TPS thought the fee remained payable. As TPS didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think it would be useful to explain how Ive 
considered the complaint. Im aware TPS have referred to a previous decision weve made 
and explained why they think this supports their view the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But 
our service is an independent, impartial service where each complaint we receive is based 
on its own merits, considering that complaints individual circumstances. So, there are 
situations where a similar complaint can have very different outcomes. Because of this, I 
havent thought about any previous decisions that have been made and instead focuses 
solely on the evidence I have available that relates directly to this complaint.
And for me to say TPS have acted fairly when invoicing Mr G for their fee, I need to be 
satisfied of two things. First, I need to be satisfied the fee theyve charged falls in line with 
the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr G entered into. And if I think it does, I also 
need to be satisfied that the successful refund Mr G received resulted from the work TPS 
completed on the claim. And I dont think thats the case in this situation.
It's not in dispute that Mr G instructed TPS to pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI against lender 
H. And by signing the LOA, Mr G was agreeing to be bound by the terms and conditions of 
that agreement. Ive seen the fee TPS are charging Mr G for and Im satisfied its been 
calculated in line with the fee information shown within those terms and conditions. So, I 
cant say TPS acted outside of these terms when issuing their invoice.
But as Ive explained above, I also need to be satisfied TPS decision to invoice Mr G was 
fair. And for me to agree this is the case, I need to be satisfied the work TPS completed 
resulted in the successful refund Mr G received. And I dont think it did.
I can see TPS submitted a full claim to lender H on 20 January 2020, after Mr G had 
provided them with a PPI questionnaire detailing why he believed the PPI was mis-sold. But 
I can see the month before this was sent, on 30 December 2019, lender H issued a final 
decision letter upholding Mr Gs claim. And this letter was sent to, and contained a reference 
number of, W.  
Ive also seen Mr G received the refund into his account on 8 January 2020 and Ws fee was 
paid to them on 16 January, all before TPS had submitted a claim to the lender. And Ive 
seen TPS have calculated their fee based on the refund Mr G received in January 2020, after lender H made them aware of this in the summer of 2021.
So, I dont think the work TPS completed led to the PPI refund Mr G received. And because 
of this, I dont think its fair for them to charge Mr G thats based on a refund their work didnt 
secure. 
I understand TPS wont agree with this. And I have thought about the fact lender H didnt 
make them aware a claim had already been submitted on the account when they responded 
to TPS DSAR. But crucially, I dont think this impacts my decision. Even though lender H 
didnt make TPS aware a claim had already been submitted, Im satisfied it had. And I dont 
think lender Hs error in informing TPS means that Mr G should then have to pay TPS fee as 
Id essentially be asking Mr G to pay for lender Hs mistake. And I dont think this is neither 
fair nor reasonable.
So, as I dont think TPS have acted fairly, Ive then thought about what I think TPS should do 
to put things right.
Putting things right
Ive already explained why Im satisfied Mr Gs claim was successful due to the work 
completed by W, not TPS. And Ive explained Mr G has already paid W the associated for 
this work. So, I dont think its fair for TPS to invoice Mr G for a fee calculated on a refund 
received following from another company and so, I think TPS should waive it.
But any direction or award I make must be fair to both parties. And in this situation, I think its 
clear TPS acted in good faith, based on the instruction Mr G provided. I dont think TPS had 
any way of knowing the claim had already been successful and I think Mr G had a 
responsibility to understand which claims were being worked by each company. Although I 
appreciate Mr G has clearly been confused by this, I do think Mr G couldve done more to 
prevent TPS from completing work on a claim that had already been successful.
So, I think TPS are entitled to invoice Mr G for the work theyve completed on the claim as 
they were unaware itd be of no value. But this invoice should not be based on the fee Mr G 
received in any way. And considering the length of time thats passed since Mr G received 
the PPI refund, I think its reasonable for me to assume this refund has most likely been 
spent. So, if Mr G is unable to afford TPS new invoice once its been calculated, Id expect 
TPS to act positively and sympathetically towards Mr G and look to agree an affordable way 
of paying the invoice. This would be between TPS and Mr G to agree and isnt something 
our service is able to mediate or comment upon.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint about The Protection Specialist 
Limited trading as The Fair Trade Practice and direct them to take the following action:
Waive the outstanding invoice calculated on the PPI refund Mr G received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman