DRN-3057346
The complaint
Mr B complains about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of his home insurance claim.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
In August 2020 Mr B made a claim for accidental damage to his oven door. He said
the hinge to the door was accidentally damaged whilst he was changing a light bulb
inside it
Mr B says he discovered the damage to the oven because he had noticed damage to
the door of his integrated fridge, which is situated close to the oven
Mr B said the fridge door was damaged by steam escaping from the damaged oven 
door
AXA have accepted the claim for accidental damage to the oven door but said the 
damage to the fridge would need to be treated as a separate claim. They said the 
incidents happened on separate occasions, and not from one event
Mr B didnt agree, he says the damage to the oven door is the proximate cause of all 
the damage  including the fridge. So, he believes both issues should be dealt with 
under one claim
Mr B was unhappy with AXAs response so brought his complaint to our service
Our investigator recommended Mr Bs complaint be upheld. She said it was reasonable to
conclude the damage to the fridge door had happened due to steam escaping from the oven
door, so she was persuaded both issues are as a result of the same cause of damage.
Because of this, she recommended AXA consider the fridge door and the oven door under
the same claim.
AXA didnt agree with our investigator. It said the damage occurred at different times  and
by different causes, so should be treated as separate claims.
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on 19 August 2021. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will be
disappointing, but Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Bs comments about why he feels the damage is linked. Mr B mentioned the
damage to the fridge door when initiating his claim  so I can see the events have happened
in very close succession.
Considering what Mr B said about the location of the fridge to the oven, its reasonable the
damage has occurred in the way hes said. And I appreciate that the fridge door would not
have been damaged had the steam not escaped from the oven due to the damaged hinge.
However, Mr B said the hinge on the oven door was damaged while replacing the bulb inside
the oven. Ive not seen anything that persuades me the fridge door was damaged at that
same moment. As Mr B was replacing a bulb inside the oven its unlikely the oven would
have been on while he was doing so. So, Im more persuaded by what AXA have said, and it 
is fair it treats it as two separate events.
Because of this I dont think AXAs decision to treat this as two separate claims is wrong,
and I dont intend to interfere in it.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA didnt provide any further response to my provisional findings.
Mr B didnt agree with my provisional findings. He reiterated AXA should treat the incident as 
one claim, and not two, due to proximate cause. He said the damage to the fridge door 
occurred gradually due to steam escaping over a period of time and wouldnt have happened 
had the oven door been sealed.
I will now reconsider all available information in my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr B said, but it doesnt change my decision  or my reasoning. 
I do appreciate the fridge door would not have been damaged had steam not escaped from 
the oven, and this was due to the damaged hinge. 
But for me to conclude the damage should be treated as one claim, I would need to be 
satisfied it was part of one incident and happened at the point the hinge was damaged.
Mr B has said himself the steam damage has happened gradually, so Im not persuaded it 
was part of one incident. 
So, I dont think AXAs decision to treat this as two separate claims is wrong, and I dont 
intend to interfere in it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman