DRN-3551253
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, gave him incorrect information 
which led to his credit limit being unfairly reduced.
What happened
Halifax gave Mr R incorrect information about the minimum payment due on his credit card 
and this caused an under payment, arrears to accrue and a late payment being recorded on 
his credit file. 
Mr R subsequently found that the credit limit on his credit card had been automatically 
reviewed, resulting in it decreasing from £15,000 to £3,500. Mr R believed this review and 
reduction was caused by the above-mentioned error. This caused Mr R an issue as he 
couldnt purchase equipment for his job.    
Halifax recognised their misinformation error, apologised, cleared the arrears owing, applied 
a one-month interest waiver and monitored Mr Rs credit file is to ensure there would not be 
a late payment marker. They also offered Mr R £150 redress. 
However, Mr R was dissatisfied as Halifax did not reinstate his £15,000 credit limit. He also 
wanted additional compensation for his lost time, lost earnings and distress caused.
Halifax informed Mr R that the credit limit reduction followed an automatic review. Whilst they 
thought this review may have been triggered by the underpayment error, they were mindful 
that Mr R had recently completed a large balance transfer. This balance transfer meant the 
limit of £15,000 could potentially have been reached again.
To assist Mr R, Halifax offered to do an immediate credit limit review. Halifax informed Mr R 
that this would involve a credit search, though they could not offer a guarantee his limit 
would be put back to its previous level. Mr R was unwilling to consent to this search. This is 
because he had concerns about his credit file as he was planning to apply for a mortgage. In 
response, Halifax offered to remove the search record. However, Mr R was still unwilling to 
consent.
Mr R subsequently complained to our service as he feels Halifax are being unfair and he 
wants them to reinstate his credit limit. He is also seeking further redress.
Our investigator decided that Halifax actions had been fair and reasonable and said that she 
wont be asking Halifax to do anything more. As Mr R remains dissatisfied, and believes the 
action and compensation to be insufficient, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator. 
I first considered if Halifax treated Mr R fairly when their misinformation led to an 
underpayment.  Halifax admitted to a failing in giving incorrect payment advice and, 
regardless of having issued an online statement, acted quickly to put Mr R back to the 
position he was in before the error occurred. Halifax also recognised the distress and 
inconvenience this caused and offered Mr R £150 redress, which is in line with our 
recommendations for complaints of this nature. Im therefore satisfied that Halifax acted 
reasonably and treated Mr R fairly.
I then looked at the credit limit reduction. There is insufficient evidence to determine exactly 
what triggered the automatic credit limit review which led to the reduction, and regardless, I 
cant tell Halifax how much they can lend to their customers. I did though consider whether 
Halifax treated Mr R fairly.
Although the reason for the automatic review is inconclusive, Halifax offered to assist Mr R 
by performing a credit review. Then, when Mr R declined this, Halifax listened to his 
concerns and offered to remove any record of the search from his credit file. I consider these 
actions to be reasonable.
Regarding the fairness of the credit review, I understand Mr Rs view that Halifaxs mistake 
was the likely trigger and that Halifax should therefore re-instate his credit limit without a 
review.  However, as stated above, the exact reason for the automatic review is unknown 
and Mr R did complete a large balance transfer. Also, it is for Halifax to decide what is 
appropriate and proportionate, in line with the relevant responsible lending rules, guidelines 
and their own lending criteria. I read a copy of Halifaxs Credit Card Terms and Conditions 
agreed by Mr R and, in part B1 Additional important terms it says, We can change your 
credit limit at any time. Also, We may not offer you credit limit increases if we are concerned 
about your ability to repay. In this situation I also consider Halifaxs actions to be both fair 
and reasonable.
While I understand Mr Rs frustrations, I havent seen anything which suggests Halifax have 
acted unreasonably or unfairly here and I dont think they need to do anything further in this 
case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman