DRN-2937217
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited trading as Insure the Box, 
caused unnecessary delays in processing his motor insurance claim. He would like further 
compensation. 
What happened
Mr C holds a motor insurance policy with Insure the Box. In February 2020 he was involved 
in a road traffic accident, after the passenger applied the handbrake while the car was in 
motion. There was damage caused to Mr Cs car and he made a claim under his policy. But 
by March 2021 it still hadnt been settled. So, due to the time taken, and the stress it was 
causing, Mr C withdrew his claim. But upon renewal of his policy, he noticed his premiums 
had increased. So he complained about both this, and the claim delays.
A second claim was also made, after Mr C found his car had been set on fire when he 
returned to collect it from the site of the above accident. But as the vehicle had already been 
deemed a total loss, this was withdrawn. 
Insure the Box responded to Mr Cs complaint. Regarding the premiums, they said that they 
re-instated his no claims discount (NCD) correctly when he withdrew the claim, but they had 
based the renewal quotation on incorrect information. They said there were three claims 
showing as open when the policy was quoted for, which reduced his NCD to 0 years. But 
had the correct information been inputted, he wouldve had 2 years NCD applied to his 
renewal quote, which wouldve reduced his premiums substantially. So they refunded him 
£738.80.  
Insure the box also said the main delays in processing the claim were as a result of waiting 
for a police report to see if any costs were recoverable from the passenger. But they since 
concluded that they had enough information in April 2020 to settle Mr Cs claim, but didnt. 
So they offered him £400 compensation for the delays and distress they caused. 
Mr C said this was not enough. He said he was left without a car while looking after a young 
child on his own. He said this made it difficult to carry out his daily activities such as 
shopping etc. So he brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Cs complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She agreed 
Insure the Box had provided poor service, and was satisfied they couldve settled his claim 
earlier. But she felt the £400 offered was sufficient compensation for the distress they 
caused. And that as his premiums had now been corrected, she didnt think they need do 
any more. But Mr C remained unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr C has confirmed he no longer wishes to pursue the claim, so I havent looked into 
whether or not I think Insure the box should still pay it, as Mr C wishes for it to remain 
withdrawn. I can also see that his NCD has since been re-instated and his premiums have 
been adjusted  this issue has been resolved and is not in dispute. So, the only area 
remaining for me to consider is whether or not the £400 Insure the Box offered Mr C, is 
sufficient compensation for the impact their failings had on him. 
Mr C has explained that the accident he was involved in was caused as a result of the 
passenger applying the handbrake while he was driving. Hes also explained that his child 
was in the car at the time. So I can only imagine how distressing a situation this must have 
been for him, not just the incident itself, but the days and weeks that followed. 
But, while I appreciate the impact this incident wouldve had on him, I should explain that my 
decision will focus solely on Insure the Boxs action/inactions, and specifically what distress 
they were likely to have caused Mr C. I wont be looking to award any compensation for any 
distress caused as a result of the incident itself, as whilst I accept it wouldve been very 
upsetting for Mr C, this isnt something I can hold Insure the Box liable for. 
Mr C has said that after the incident he was left without a car. This meant he regularly had to 
walk around an hour to a nearby village to get shopping with his young child. He said on one 
occasion the baby got sunburnt as a result of the length of the walk. He also said he had to 
spend a considerable amount of time phoning Insure the Box, up until withdrawing the claim 
around a year later. He also incurred additional expenses on transport during this time. 
Having looked at all the evidence provided, including Insure the Boxs final response letter, it 
seems clear to me that they were in a position to pay out on Mr Cs claim in around April 
2020, yet they were still corresponding with Mr C up until he withdrew the claim in March 
2021. So its clear this matter has continued for much longer than required. 
But while Insure the Box couldve paid out on Mr Cs claim much sooner, there was still the 
police matter that was being dealt with in relation to the passenger. And this went on for 
some time beyond April 2020, up until Mr C eventually withdrew his claim in March 2021. So 
even though the pay-out of the claim was delayed, I think its likely Mr C wouldve still had to 
correspond with Insure the Box, in relation to his ongoing premium pricing, the reinstatement 
of his NCD, and the recovery of funds from the passenger based on the potential 
prosecution that was pending. 
However, while that correspondence may have continued, I do think that had Insure the Box 
settled Mr Cs claim when it could have in April 2020, he wouldve been able to purchase a 
car around this time, and had transport for him and his child. But, instead, he was not able to 
do so until July that year, having borrowed money in order to do so. I think this wouldve 
been particularly stressful for Mr C, given the new circumstances he had found himself in  
now looking after a young child on his own. 
So, I agree that I dont think Insure the Box handled Mr Cs claim particularly well. And as a 
result, I think compensation is due. But I also need to consider that many of the challenges 
and stresses Mr C has faced, are as a result of the incident itself that took place, and the 
new circumstances he was experiencing. And while I think Insure the Boxs inactions 
wouldve only compounded this stress, Im not persuaded they are the sole cause of it, as I 
think its likely much of this stress wouldve existed following the incident itself, regardless of 
the additional delays he experienced. So, while I agree that Insure the Box should indeed compensate Mr C for their failings, on 
balance I think their offer of £400 is adequate compensation, for the reasons Ive set out 
above. So I wont be asking them to pay any more. 
I appreciate this may come as a disappointment to Mr C, but I hope I have been able to 
explain clearly how I have reached these findings.
Putting things right
 Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited has already made an offer to pay £400 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited to pay Mr C £400.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman