DRN-4454286
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Nationwide Building Society didn't communicate that commission 
charges on her investments were no longer mandatory. Shes requested a refund of these 
charges. 
What happened
Several years ago, Mrs G took out investments through Nationwide. The investments 
remained invested for several years and responsibility for administering the products has 
passed between several businesses. 
 
In 2023, Mrs G complained to Nationwide after finding out the ongoing commission charge 
for her investments that was paid to Nationwide for the services was no longer mandatory 
and it hadnt been since 2019. She requested this be refunded as she wasnt made aware 
that she could opt out of the charge. 
Nationwide responded but said it wouldnt be refunding any charges. It explained:
When Mrs G took out her investments it was explained that commission would be 
payable and at this time it was mandatory, which allowed it to provide and maintain a 
sales and advice service. This entitled investors to request advice in the future 
without further charge at any time. 
It was under no obligation to make pro-active contact to arrange further meetings.
In 2015, the business responsible for administering the investments wrote to Mrs G 
advising her of a change to her terms and conditions and how she would be charged 
moving forward. It provided a breakdown that stated that the Nationwide charges 
figure was the commission received for the advisory services provided. A reminder 
letter was sent in February 2016, providing a link to Nationwides new Tariff of 
Charges document and referred her to the Financial Planning Team at Nationwide. 
In terms of when the charge became optional, this occurred when Mrs Gs 
investments migrated to a new administrator in May 2019. Prior to this, there were no 
means of having this charge removed. In the Terms and Conditions (T&Cs) provided 
by the new administrator, term 10.4.6 stated At any time you can ask us in writing to 
alter or stop paying the adviser charge. Nationwide was not required to inform her of 
the possibility of removing the charge. 
Mrs G is represented by her husband Mr G, they remained unhappy with the response, so 
referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He 
didnt uphold it. In summary he said:
The regulators retail distribution review (RDR) resulted in changes in the way firms 
provided advice  but advisors could continue to receive commissions on products 
sold prior to 1 January 2013. But the RDR rules didnt provide a provision for 
customers to opt out of this.
The FCA released guidance notes for retail customers about trail commissions 
outlining ways in which it could be stopped or reduced indirectly  but no requirement 
was made for firms to contact customers paying trail commission about these 
options.
In May 2019, a new business took over the administration of Mrs Gs investments  
and after this she was now able to switch off the trail commission. The investigator 
didnt think Nationwide was responsible for Mrs G not being informed about this. He 
also mentioned regulations that came into force about later in 2019 that required fund 
managers to review the value of funds. 
Mr G responded on behalf of Mrs G. In summary he said:
He spoke to the business who currently administers the investments and was 
informed it was the responsibility of Nationwide to inform them that the charge was 
no longer mandatory. 
They were not informed by anyone that the trail commission charge was changed to 
no longer being mandatory. It was unfair to carry on charging a commission without 
informing them, as Mrs G was left believing the charge was still mandatory when it 
wasnt.
In reference to the 2019 regulatory changes that the investigator mentioned, the 
investment administrators terms were in place in place in May 2019 before the rules 
changed in September 2019. So, Mrs G couldnt have stopped the mandatory trail 
commission in May 2019 because it wasnt until September 2019 that the rules 
changed the way fund managers had to deal with such things.
Nationwide hasnt met its obligation under the regulatory requirements of the 
Treating Customers Fairly directive.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has explained the charge associated with trail commission became optional 
when Mrs Gs investments migrated to the new administrator in May 2019. It says prior to 
this, there were no means of having this charge removed whilst held with the previous 
administrator. It referred to the terms and conditions of the new administrator that say a 
customer can ask in writing to alter or stop paying the adviser charge. It also says 
Nationwide was not required, under regulation, to inform Mrs G of the possibility of removing 
the charge. And information about this wouldve been available to her under the platform 
T&Cs (as described above). It doesnt accept there has been a breach of any regulated 
activity when applying these charges to the account.
From the evidence I have available, Im satisfied it was only after May 2019, when the 
current administrator acquired the investments on its own platform that it became possible to 
request a stop to the charge. It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mrs G was aware of the 
change in administrator in 2019. 
Ive noted the information provided about the new administrators T&Cs, which make 
reference to the ability to cancel the commission charges at any time. These say in section 
10.4.6 you can: can ask us in writing to alter or stop paying the adviser charge. I think it is 
important to explain that these arent Nationwides T&Cs, but the business who now 
administer the investment.
I understand that Nationwide says it had no requirement to encourage customers such as 
Mrs G from being a Nationwide customer or cease their right to advice services. It also says 
that paying the commission meant Mrs G had access to a variety of services offered by 
Nationwide, which she obviously wouldnt have had access to if she cancelled the 
commission payment. I accept this is a reasonable position to take. Only after the platform 
migration in 2019 could investors choose to switch off the commission, and this severed the relationship with Nationwide, and the right to receive future advice or access to Nationwides 
services.
Ive also taken into account the broader circumstances around the charging of trail 
commission. Nationwide started to receive trail commission as part of the transaction when 
Mrs G first invested. Trail commission is a fee paid to the business / financial adviser who 
sold the investment. It usually takes the form of a percentage fee taken from the sum of the 
investment and intended to cover an ongoing service. It appears Mrs G accepts this was a 
mandatory charge originally. At the time it was legitimate and not uncommon for advisors or 
intermediaries selling investments to be paid in this way and commission would form part of 
a bundle of charges which were deducted from any investments sold.
The Financial Services Authority (FSA), the UKs former industry regulator, conducted whats
known as The Retail Distribution Review (RDR), which outlawed trail commission for all new
investments sold following 31 December 2012. But it did not immediately require any
amendments be made to existing arrangements which were subject to trail commission  
such as Mrs Gs investment. There was no regulatory requirement for firms to provide a 
specific level of service in exchange for historic trail commission they receive. In short, 
investments like these, when they were sold, the firm could take an open-ended annual sum 
from the investment to pay for the initial sale. Thats whats happened here and I see no fair 
and reasonable reason to say Nationwide shouldnt have charged it. 
Ive considered the regulators guidance for consumers about trail commission. This 
indicates it wouldve been for Mrs G to either rearrange her investments to remove the 
commission element, or alternatively, to speak to Nationwide about the level of service it was 
providing in exchange for the fee it was collecting. So, on this basis when the charge 
became optional, it still would have been for Mrs G to request its removal. I havent seen 
there was a proactive requirement on Nationwide to contact her. I appreciate Mr G has 
argued they werent aware of the change to an optional charge, but the fact no request was 
made to remove until more recently, means I havent found this was as a result of a failing by 
Nationwide. 
During our consideration of the complaint, the investigator referred to regulatory changes 
made in September 2019 - to which Mr G points out these changes happened after the point 
the investigator said the ability to opt out of trail commission for his investment was 
available. The investigator clarified that Mrs G was able to opt out of the charge in May 
2019, when the administrator changed. It appears this reference to regulation has confused 
matters. I dont find this bears relevance to when Mrs G was able to opt out of the trail 
commission charge. So, I dont think further consideration of this point is helpful in deciding 
whether Nationwide have failed to do something it should have done. For the reason given 
above, Ive found there wasnt a requirement on Nationwide to tell Mrs G the trail 
commission could be opted out of when her investments moved to a new administrator in 
May 2019. 
I confirm I have listened to call Mr G had with the current administrator of the investments. I 
note the opinion given in the call was that Nationwide was responsible for informing Mrs G 
that the trail commission was no longer mandatory. Ive taken this into account, but it doesnt 
lead me to change my findings. And as Im deciding a complaint about Nationwide, I wont 
be commenting on what another business obligations were. My findings are specific to 
Nationwide and whether I have identified failings by this business.
I appreciate Mrs G will be disappointed by this conclusion but I havent found that 
Nationwide has done something wrong in the way it collected charges. This doesnt mean 
that I conclude she was aware the charge had become optional in May 2019, but that I dont 
find Nationwide should have done more to make her aware. In summary, I acknowledge Mrs Gs overall concerns with the situation, but having given the matter careful consideration, I 
dont require Nationwide to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman