DRN-2473668
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money that she lost when she fell 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
Mrs W has some savings and decided she wanted to buy a campervan. She found an advert 
on an on-line platform, after contacting the seller and checking the consignment company 
the sale was to be conducted through, Mrs W sent £8,645 for the campervan by faster 
payment. This payment was sent on 23 April 2019. Mrs W had also checked the existence of 
the campervan with the DVLA and obtained a copy of the sellers passport/driving licence as 
part of the delivery process. 
The campervan was due to be delivered by 6pm on 26 April 2019. In the morning, Mrs W 
attempted to track her delivery, but the company website could no longer be found, and the 
seller wasnt answering their phone. Concerned, Mrs W went to her local Lloyds branch, but 
she was told to wait until the delivery time had passed. When that time had gone, and there 
was no delivery, Mrs W contacted Lloyds to say she had been the victim of fraud. 
Lloyds contacted the recipient bank the following day and texted Mrs W to let her know and 
that it will update her. It sent further texts in May and July 2019 to say it and the recipient 
bank were still looking into matters. Not happy with how long it was taking, Mrs W asked us 
to get involved in August 2019. 
As Mrs W hadnt raised a complaint with Lloyds, we told it of the complaint. In December 
2019 it sent a response explaining it didnt think it had done anything wrong  a new code of 
practice in relation to this type of payment didnt apply to Mrs W, as her payment had 
happened before the code came into force.  And it didnt think there was any reason for it to 
prevent the payment at the time. It also said there were delays in receiving information from 
the recipient bank which it wasnt responsible for. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and ultimately decided that Lloyds hadnt done 
anything wrong. He wasnt persuaded the payment was unusual such that Lloyds ought to 
have identified that Mrs W might be the victim of a scam and so take further steps. And even 
if Lloyds had acted on Mrs Ws concerns sooner, when she first visited the branch, that 
wouldnt have made any difference to her position as the fraudster had withdrawn the funds 
from the recipient account the day before. 
Mrs W has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary she has said:
This money formed part of her pension pot which shell now need to make up. 
She made numerous checks before proceeding with the payment. 
She wasnt making large regular payments from account. 
The customer service by Lloyds has been appalling. It took it eight months to give her 
a decision at which point she contacted us and there should be some sort of 
standard that banks have in response to complaints. It should have kept her 
updated about what was happening. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both Mrs W and Lloyds that although I have only summarised 
the evidence and arguments made, I have read and considered everything provided. 
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer even if they were duped into 
giving that authorisation or it was obtained by third-party fraud. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customer as a result. 
The first question I therefore need to consider is whether Lloyds breached that duty when 
executing Mrs Ws payment request?
There is no dispute that Mrs W was duped into authorising a payment for a campervan of 
£8,645. The payment took place on 23 April 2019 and was to what Mrs w believed was a 
legitimate seller. I understand the payment was made online using her usual security 
credentials. So, I conclude that this was an authorised payment  for which Mrs W is liable 
unless there is evidence that bank could and should reasonably have done more to protect 
her, which issue I now turn to. 
£8,645 is not an insubstantial sum and so I have considered whether this ought to have 
triggered the banks alert systems such that it ought to have questioned whether Mrs W was 
a victim of a scam and intervened. Mrs Ws statements for the account show that she made 
regular withdrawals of amounts anywhere up to an including £2,000 in any one payment. I 
accept this payment is higher, but as the investigator explained, one off payments from 
savings accounts arent, of themselves, unusual as account holders often save with a 
particular spend in mind. Im not persuaded that payment was so unusual or uncharacteristic 
that it ought to have triggered an alert or given the bank grounds for suspecting fraud. 
But even if thought it should have intervened, its hard to see how Mrs W would be in a 
different position. Upon making enquiries, had the bank understood the payment was being 
made for a vehicle advertised on an online platform, Lloyds would likely have given a scam 
warning and told Mrs W to do certain checks before the payment was made. Those checks 
would have been the type of checks that Mrs W had already carried out checking with the 
DVLA, doing research on the businesses involved etc. So she was already live to checking 
this was a genuine sale. And although Lloyds could have advised about making the payment 
a different way or on delivery, this was information that I understand was given on the 
platform anyway and so available to Mrs W. 
It follows that I find no persuasive evidence that Lloyds breached its duty to Mrs W or that it 
shouldnt have executed without undue delay the payment request she had made and 
authorised. There is a reasonable balance to be struck for the benefit of all account holders 
and/or commercial efficiency  and the bank did also have a duty to execute a properly-
authorised payment request within a reasonable period. I turn now to whether Lloyds took reasonable steps to try and recover Mrs Ws funds once it 
knew of the scam. The records show Lloyds made the request to the recipient bank the 
following day.  This is within the time scales permitted for such requests. I understand Mrs W 
is unhappy that Lloyds told her to wait until the delivery time had passed. Given what had 
happened, and that Mrs W couldnt track the delivery and the website had disappeared, I 
can understand her concerns about being told to wait  Lloyds could have reported the scam 
immediately, given it was highly unlikely the delivery was going to be made. But the recipient 
bank has provided records to show all the funds had been withdrawn from the account the 
day before the delivery was due. So Mrs Ws financial position wouldnt be any different had 
the bank acted sooner; there werent any funds to recover even if the bank had acted a few 
hours earlier. 
Mrs W is also unhappy with how long it took for the bank to give her a final outcome. 
However, I can see that she was sent text message updates between April and July 2019. 
She contacted us in August 2019, but at that point she hadnt yet complained to the bank. 
We notified the bank of the complaint in December 2019 and it issued its final response a 
short time later. I do acknowledge there was a delay and it could have provided more 
meaningful updates. But these investigations can take time and Lloyds was to some extent 
waiting on the recipient bank. Overall, this isnt something I am going to make an award of 
compensation for.    
My final decision
For the reasons, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman