DRN-3555427
The complaint
Mr H complains that a car he took from MotoNovo Finance Limited was not of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr H entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo. The car 
which was the subject of the agreement had been first registered in December 2015 and had 
a cash price of a little over £10,000. Its recorded mileage was just under 61,000 miles. Mr 
Hs monthly payments were just under £170.
In September 2020 the car suffered a major oil leak. It was not being driven at the time. Mr H 
arranged for the car to be taken for a specialist assessment. That assessment concluded 
that the leak was linked to the cars timing chain. It would cost £1,398 to repair. Mr H 
complained to MotoNovo and on 19 November 2020 paid the repair costs.
MotoNovo arranged a further inspection which concluded that car had been of satisfactory 
quality at delivery. Mr H did not accept those conclusions and referred the matter to this 
service. Our investigation ended with a final decision which I issued in August 2021. I upheld 
the complaint and made an award in Mr Hs favour, requiring MotoNovo to refund repair 
costs of £1,398, agree not to pursue the monthly payments which had fallen due in 
December 2020 and January 2021 and pay Mr H a further £150. Mr H accepted my 
decision, which then became binding on him and MotoNovo.
During the course of our investigation, however, Mr H said that the car had suffered a further 
oil leak. My decision expressly said that we had not considered that issue and that Mr H 
could raise a further complaint if he wished to do so. It is that second issue that I have 
considered here.
Mr H took the view that he needed a car and that the car he had taken from MotoNovo was 
not reliable. So, when it broke down for a second time, he sold it. He received a cash price of 
£8,482.84 in July 2021; that left a balance after the finance agreement had been settled of 
just over £1,000. The car had by then covered around 68,500 miles.
Our investigator thought, on the balance of probabilities, it was likely that the problems that 
arose in April 2021 were the same as the earlier issues and that the repair had not been 
successful. She recommended that MotoNovo refund any monthly payments made from 
May 2021 and the deposit of £2,500 that Mr H had paid, together with interest. MotoNovo did 
not accept the investigators recommendation and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. It said that it had not had the opportunity to inspect the car again and that it would not 
be fair in the circumstances to hold it liable for the later problems.
I considered what had happened since I issued my first final decision and issued a 
provisional decision. I noted that when I had issued my decision upholding Mr Hs first 
complaint, I had had the benefit of two independent reports on the cars condition. I did not 
have similar evidence about the further faults which had developed. It was understandable 
that Mr H had taken the decision to sell the car, but it meant that there was little evidence on 
which I could reach a decision about the cars quality. 
I noted too that Mr H had sold the car for around £1,500 less than he had paid for it. I did not 
believe that the difference could be attributed to any particular fault with the car. 
Mr H responded to say that he thought he had lost out. He also explained that he had been 
told that the second fault was not the same as the first one.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, there is no independent evidence about the 
second fault. Mr H has told me that the problem was with the head gasket, and I have no 
reason to disbelieve that. However, in order to uphold his new complaint, I must be satisfied 
that (i) the fault was present or developing when the car was delivered to Mr H and (ii) that it 
meant that the car was not of satisfactory quality at that time  meaning of the quality a 
reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. 
As I say, I think that Mr Hs decision to sell the car was a reasonable one. But it does mean 
that there is little or no evidence about the cause of the later fault. Crucially, there is no 
evidence on which I can fairly make a finding that this fault meant that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality at delivery. That is very different from the position with the earlier 
complaint. I do not therefore believe that I can fairly make a finding that MotoNovo was 
responsible for the later faults.     
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require MotoNovo Finance Limited to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Hs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman