DRN-3270983
The complaint
Miss P complains that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) irresponsibly 
granted her a hire purchase she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
On 31 January 2017 Miss P acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement 
from TCFC. The cash price of the car was £6,995 and the total repayable under the 
agreement was £13,120. Miss P made an advance payment of £495 and was to repay the 
balance with 35 monthly repayments of £361 (figures rounded).
Miss P says that TCFC didnt treat her fairly when it set up the agreement because it wasnt 
affordable for her. She says she wasnt given all the information she should have been 
before entering into the agreement and that TCFC didnt treat her fairly when she later had 
difficulty meeting her repayments. Miss P says the repayment plans werent affordable for 
her and TCFC refused to reduce her payments or increase the term of the arrangements. 
She says this matter caused her great stress as she needed her car for work.
I understand that Miss P made repayments until late 2019. She told us that the car stopped 
working in August 2020. She says it was deemed unrepairable by a local garage and was 
subsequently scrapped.
TCFC didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. It said that Miss P signed a contract to pay a total of
£13,120 and that if she was struggling to maintain payments, the best option was to give 
the vehicle back under a Voluntary Termination. It says that it is not a legal requirement to 
offer refinance and it was not something that it offered as a forbearance option, therefore
Miss P couldnt extend the term of the agreement. TCFC also says that it was sorry if Miss 
P felt bullied but it was her decision to keep the vehicle and it did everything it could to 
work with her and allow her to do so.
Our investigator found that TCFC hadnt treated Miss P unfairly during the course of the 
agreement but didnt make a finding as to whether or not TCFC treated Miss P unfairly by 
entering into an agreement with her in the first place. Our investigator didnt recommend 
that TCFC compensate Miss P for any errors. Miss P didnt agree with these findings and 
asked for her complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve. 
I considered all aspects of Miss Ps complaint and sent a provisional decision to both parties 
on 9 November 2021 explaining why I planned to uphold it in part. I provisionally found that 
TCFC hadnt carried out proportionate checks when assessing whether the finance would be 
affordable for Miss P and that further checks would likely have revealed that it wasnt. I also 
provisionally found that TCFC should have seen from the information it already had that 
further credit was unlikely to be sustainable for Miss P. I didnt conclude that TCFC ought to 
have treated Miss P differently when she couldnt meet her repayments.
TCFC didnt accept my provisional decision and on 23 December 2021 provided further 
comments and information for me to consider when making my final decision. Miss P 
accepted my provisional decision and provided further information on 7 January 2022 in 
response to my queries, which were prompted by TCFCs comments. I shared this 
information with TCFC via email on 11 January 2022 and explained why I remained of the 
view that Miss Ps complaint should be upheld. TCFC provided some further comment on 
18 January 2022. 
I want to reassure both parties that I have considered everything they have said regarding 
the complaint. This is my final decision on this matter. It will be legally binding if Miss P 
chooses to accept it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, including what both parties have said in response to 
my provisional decision, I remain of the view that Miss Ps complaint should be upheld in 
part. Im appreciate that this will be disappointing news for TCFC and I hope the following 
clearly explains why I have come to this final decision.
For completeness I will set out again what Id said in my provisional decision along with 
my final comments. Ill also refer to the more recent information and comments from both 
parties as appropriate. 
I began my provisional decision with the regulations which TCFC needed to abide by. I 
said TCFC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set this out in detail.
In brief, TCFC needed to check that Miss P could afford to meet her repayments without 
difficulty before agreeing credit for her. In other words, it needed to check she could meet 
her repayments in a sustainable manner, without incurring financial difficulty or 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. This meant being able to meet her 
payments out of her usual means over the term of the agreement, without having to 
borrow further and while meeting her exiting commitments. The checks needed to be 
proportionate to the nature of the credit and to Miss Ps circumstances.
TCFC also needed to take a proportionate and considered approach to a borrowers 
arrears difficulties. So when Miss P had problems meeting her repayments, it should have 
given her the opportunity to repay any arrears, potentially deferring payment or accepting 
token payments for a time. And it needed to give Miss P clear, fair and not misleading 
information before and during the agreement term.
I started my investigation by considering what Miss P said about the information she 
received before she entered into the agreement.  I said TCFC has provided a signed loan 
agreement dated 31 January 2017. This contains information I would expect to see, for 
example the cash price of the car, the total charge for the credit, the repayment amounts, 
and the total amount payable. Of course I dont know exactly what happened at the point 
the loan was agreed but I havent seen enough to be able to say Miss P didnt receive all 
the information I think she should have prior to entering into the agreement.
I then considered what TCFC knew or should reasonably have found out through 
proportionate checks on affordability before entering into this agreement with Miss P, and 
whether its decision to offer credit was fair.
I said in my provisional decision that TCFC carried out an income and expenditure analysis before agreeing credit for Miss P and calculated that she had a disposable 
monthly income of almost £1,500. It seems inconsistent to me that with this level of 
disposable income Miss P hadnt paid a larger deposit and reduced her monthly 
repayments or indeed saved to purchase a vehicle. Given the amount Miss P was 
borrowing, the size and term of the repayment, and the consequences she faced if she 
couldnt meet her repayments, I think it would have been proportionate for TCFC to have 
verified some of the figures it relied on, for example, via a recent payslip of Miss Ps or 
evidence of benefit awards or bank statements. I cant see that this happened. Altogether, 
I cant say that TCFC took reasonable steps here to assess the risk of the credit being 
unaffordable for Miss P.
Had TCFC looked into Miss Ps circumstances before providing credit for her, I dont think 
it would have been reassured that she would be able to meet her repayments without 
difficulty. I note that Miss P told TCFC she was in financial difficulty in April 2017, two and 
a half months after taking out the agreement. An income and expenditure analysis mid-
April showed that Miss P had a disposable income of £386. TCFC assumed Miss P would 
have 80% of this, £309, available to meet her finance payment. The analysis also showed 
she was a single parent and was spending at least 22% of her income on repaying other 
debt, including council tax arrears. TCFC agreed a six month repayment plan of £200 a 
month. I think TCFC understood at that point that the agreement as it stood wasnt 
affordable for Miss P, and I think its likely it would have understood this prior to lending 
had it carried out proportionate checks.
TCFC had checked Miss Ps credit file prior to the agreement and provided a copy of its 
findings. I think there was enough adverse information showing on Miss Ps credit file at 
the time to indicate that she wasnt likely to be able to meet repayments for further credit 
in a sustainable manner. She had incurred two county court judgements (CCJS) in the 
previous three months, one of which was for a hire purchase agreement of almost 
£19,000; the other was for over £3,500 of overdraft debt. Miss P had recently defaulted on 
a short term loan, had missed payments on a home credit account and was in sustained 
arrears on a credit card. In addition Miss P had older defaults which remained unpaid, for 
example telecoms, home credit and bank accounts, some of which were with a debt 
collector. It seems Miss P had debts of at least £25,000 which she was not managing to 
repay. I dont think TCFC treated her fairly when it agreed credit for her knowing her level 
of existing debt and how she was managing this.
I provisionally concluded that TCFC was irresponsible when it entered into the hire 
purchase agreement with Miss P and said it should take steps to put this right.
I then went on to consider what happened when Miss P couldnt make her repayments. I 
said that TCFC has provided its customer records and Ive reviewed these. On a number 
of occasions TCFC accepted a reduced payment from Miss P when she explained that 
she couldnt meet her full repayment for the month. I can see that several repayment plans 
were set up over the years, for various amounts and terms.
I note that in April 2019 TCFC recorded that Miss P had £35,000 of debt, including £1,000 
of arrears on her gas bill. She said she was being supported by a national debt advice 
charity and was on medication for longstanding mental health problems. TCFC also noted 
that Miss P suggested she could reduce her outgoings by cutting down on certain costs 
including food spend. It seems to have accepted these circumstances and put a 12 month 
repayment plan in place a week or so later.
Miss P says the repayment plans that were agreed were unaffordable and inappropriate 
for her. TCFC considered Miss Ps income and expenditure each time, though I cant see 
that it took steps to verify her expenditure at any point. I find it concerning that TCFC put a repayment plan in place which required Miss P to reduce her spending on food for it to 
be affordable, especially under circumstances which indicate that she was in a vulnerable 
position on a number of counts.
Miss P told us that she had no choice but to accept the repayment plans because she 
couldnt work if she didnt have a car. She says she would have preferred to have paid 
less each month over a longer term to allow her to keep the car. Miss P says What 
would have been fair and reasonable, positive and sympathetic was for them to allow 
me to reduce my payments over an extended term (bearing in mind the agreement was 
due to end January 2020 and is still in place). This would have been no detriment to 
[TCFC] and would have avoided the emotional and mental stress, anxiety and severe 
hardship I was subjected to.
TCFC says that it is not a legal requirement to offer refinance and it was not something 
that it offered as a forbearance option, therefore Miss P couldnt extend the term of the 
agreement. Theres nothing in the regulations to say that TCFC couldnt have extended 
the time over which Miss P could repay what she owed under the agreement, as long as it 
didnt make the term unreasonably excessive and it could find a level of repayment that 
was affordable for her.
Let me say at this point that I accept what Miss P says about how difficult managing the 
agreement has been for her and I can understand her perspective about what the best 
course of action would have been. However, having considered this aspect of Miss Ps 
complaint carefully, I havent come to the conclusion that TCFC ought to have treated 
Miss P differently when she couldnt meet her repayments. Miss P has ended up without 
a car and remains liable for the full amount owing under the agreement. I cant say that 
she would have been in a better financial or emotional position if TCFC had taken a 
different course of action following the agreement inception. I think the problems Miss P 
had meeting her repayments followed from its decision to lend to her in the first 
instance
In response to my provisional decision TCFC said that:
The fact that Miss P paid a deposit of £495 was more the exception than the rule 
as larger deposits were unusual with car finance lending in the sub-prime 
market. So it didnt think this level of deposit was inconsistent. 
The audit trail from its business systems strongly suggested that Miss Ps income 
was verified at the time of application and showed that the finance was affordable 
at that point.
It initially wasnt happy to proceed with the agreement because it could see that 
Miss P had incurred a CCJ. However, it appeared that the ongoing liability 
associated with this CCJ had been investigated by TCFC and understood and so 
it was disregarded. There was only one other account that had defaulted in the 
last 12 months, and this didnt raise concern.
At the time of approval in January 2017 Miss Ps disposal income was calculated 
at £1,250. As at April 2017 this had reduced to £386 a reduction of £864. There 
seem to be three main reasons for the reduction:
oMain salary reduction of £332 to £2,228 per month;
oLoss of DWP income of £333 per month; and
oCouncil tax arrears to be paid at £378 per month.It is regrettable that Miss Ps financial position deteriorated so soon after the loan 
was made but TCFC couldnt or shouldnt have foreseen this at the time of the 
original credit assessment. Much of this deterioration, for example the council tax 
arrears, was temporary. 
Miss P could have avoided much of her current financial hardship had she taken 
up the appropriate offer of a Voluntary Termination in 2019 thereby extinguishing 
her debt and improving her credit record. TCFC is accountable for its lending 
decisions, but Miss P has admitted to providing inflated income information at 
times and declined help throughout the agreement, for example taking her car to 
a garage in to have a fault investigated (21/11/2017) as well as turning down the 
Voluntary Termination Offer.
I asked Miss P for some additional information prior to responding to TCFC on the above 
and shared this information with it in my communication of the 11 January 2022. Ive set out 
my response in full below. 
I said that I can accept that TCFC asked Miss P for proof of her income based on the call 
notes the lender provided and what Miss P has since told us. The call notes also mention 
proof of income and benefits by way of bank statements. And I can see that TCFC checked 
Miss Ps credit file.
However, even if I now consider these checks to have been proportionate, that doesnt mean
that I think everything went as it should have when Miss P applied for credit. I provisionally
concluded that TCFC didnt treat Miss P fairly when it agreed credit for her, given what its
checks revealed, and Im afraid havent seen anything which changes my mind about this. I
appreciate this will be disappointing news, but I remain of the view that Miss Ps complaint
should be upheld.
On the matter of Miss Ps deposit, my point here was not that the level of deposit Miss P
provided was low and therefore unusual for the sector, rather that the level of available 
income seemed unusually high. I thought if Miss P actually had this amount of disposable 
income available to her each month, she might have paid a larger deposit or saved to buy a 
car outright. I asked Miss P about her deposit and she said: I applied for the finance ahead 
of 31st January 2017 but I didn't take out the agreement until 31st January 2017 as I needed 
to get paid to have the deposit (I didn't have enough), TCFC agreed to wait until this date. 
So come pay day I took the bus  completed the agreement and took the car home.
Regarding Miss Ps income, a salary of £37,500 (as youve mentioned and as shown on her
payslip from January 2018) yields a monthly income of about £2,200, with no deductions. I 
can see from Miss Ps bank statements that her usual income fluctuated around this amount 
(e.g. £2,138 in February 2017, £2,228 in March and £2,108 in April) so I am unsure where 
the wage of £2,560 recorded in her application comes from  perhaps this includes a benefit 
amount? (see call notes from 4/01/2017)
I asked Miss P to tell me about her income and what proofs she provided at the time. She 
said: My gross salary was £37,500 and I provided a copy of my contract (I began my 
employment October 2016), bank statements and [my son's] DLA award letter  I did (and 
still do) receive payments from DLA (now PIP) which is for my son, it was/is made to me as I 
was/am his appointee but the money was/is for him due to his disability to help with his day-
to-day needs/living costs. The DWP DLA payment was about £333 a month at the time.
Miss P also said Prior to October 2016 I was unemployed (for approximately a year) andreceived benefits as shown on my bank statements. Therefore, as TCFC were aware, the 
Tax Credits I received at the time of application were based on benefit income and not a 
salary and therefore couldn't be used to verify affordability for the duration of the agreement 
as come April 2017 at the financial YE it was envisaged/expected that they would cease.
It does seem likely to me that Miss Ps usual income was around £2,200. I also think it was
foreseeable that her tax credits (a means-tested benefit) were likely to change, given what 
she was earning and that shed recently started working. I noted that Miss P was in receipt of 
child benefit of about £90 a month and that the DWP benefit wasnt awarded to her (the NI 
number on her bank statement reference is different to the one on her payslip). Shes 
confirmed this wasnt her benefit but her sons. Its debatable for me whether the DWP 
money would have been available to Miss P to cover her debt repayments, given the nature 
of the benefit.
Regarding Miss Ps outgoings  shed declared expenses of £1,927 at the time of the loan. 
This included £470 a month repaying over £4,000 of existing debt across four loans - I note 
from the credit file TCFC provided that shed missed a payment on one of these loans and 
another was delinquent. This £470 didnt include any payments towards the £25,000+ that 
was in default. Some of this was with debt collectors, and shed incurred two recent CCJs so 
its likely she would have had court costs and repayments for these two defaulted debts at 
least.
TCFCs income and expenditure analysis of April 2017 included court costs and collections
payments totalling £105 a month, and it also included £125 towards a student loan (shown 
on the January 2018 payslip provided). So altogether, I think Miss P was likely to have been
spending at least £700 on debt repayments each month, a significant proportion of her 
means even before adding in a further commitment of £361.
I understand that Miss Ps council tax arrears arose before the agreement was taken out. I
asked her about these and she said the Council tax arrears were £378 in total and were
deducted from my salary 31st May 2017 - I received £1,694.79. The bank statements 
confirm this pay.
I provisionally concluded that further checks on Miss Ps circumstances prior to lending to 
her wouldnt have provided reassurance that she would be able to meet her payments 
sustainably and Im afraid I havent seen anything since that makes me think otherwise. I 
dont think it's a case of her financial situation deteriorating rapidly in the months following 
the agreement inception. I think further analysis of the information TCFC had would likely 
have confirmed that Miss Ps means of repayment werent as high as it considered and her 
debts were greater. She wasnt managing her debt well  the CCJs, defaults and recent 
delinquency were known to TCFC  and she was in considerable financial difficulty. This all 
leads me to conclude that TCFC didnt treat her fairly by entering into this agreement 
because it wasnt likely to be sustainable for her.
You did mention in your response that you would want me to reconsider my redress 
proposals. You said:  Miss P could have avoided much of her current financial hardship had 
she taken up the appropriate offer of a Voluntary Termination in 2019 thereby extinguishing 
her debt and improving her credit record. The agreement states that such a termination 
would mean capping Miss Ps liability at £6,559.93. Id proposed capping her liability at 
£6,450, which I dont think is significantly different.
TCFC responded to the above communication on 18 January 2022 to confirm that it still 
disagreed that it had been irresponsible when it entered into the finance agreement with 
Miss P. In summary TCFC said that:The quotes from Miss P provided in my email of the 11 October 2021 suggested 
that I had access to information that was not provided to it;
It feels strongly that the level of compensation Ive requested to pay Miss P is 
disproportionate for someone who had the use of the vehicle for four years, who 
declined to voluntarily terminate the agreement in 2019 when she could have 
limited her own financial hardship and capped the financial loss to TCFC and who 
has admitted providing false financial information during the life of the agreement. 
The point I had made about the proposed liability cap being equivalent to the  
Voluntary Termination amount was not correct. Under a Voluntary Termination 
TCFC would have taken the car back and would have offset the net sales 
proceeds against the liability; and
Miss P made her referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 19 November 
2019, and it has taken over two years to resolve. Had the current decision been 
made within the Services 90-day service level a considerable amount of penalty 
interest would have been avoided. It requested as a minimum that penalty interest 
is not awarded on this case.
I hope I have reassured TCFC that I have shared all the information I have relied on in 
making this decision. I accept what its said about it not having had the opportunity to acquire 
and sell Miss Ps car to offset the net sales proceeds against any loan balance. However, 
had TCFC recovered and sold Miss Ps car, I might have to consider including in my redress 
any difference between what Miss Ps car sold for in an auction sale and what it might have 
cost her to replace it, in other words the market value. So TCFC may have found itself in the 
position now of having to refund more than what I have proposed, along with compensatory 
interest. As it happened, in this case the car was scrapped and so was lost to both parties.
Finally, Im afraid I cannot agree that compensatory interest is not included in my redress. I 
accept that we could have reached the right outcome earlier in our process, but TCFC might 
not have agreed with it. Equally, TCFC could have resolved this complaint at any point, 
either before or after Miss P referred her complaint to us. Until Miss P is refunded, it is my 
view that she has been unfairly deprived of her money and I think our usual compensatory 
interest is appropriate in this case.
My final conclusion is that TCFC was irresponsible when it entered into this agreement with 
Miss P and Ive set out below what it needs to do to put things right for her. 
Putting things right
As I dont think TCFC ought to have approved the finance, it should therefore refund all 
the payments Miss P has made, including her deposit. However, Miss P did have use of 
the car for a time and I think its fair that she pays something for that use. As mentioned, 
Miss P told us that the car stopped working in August 2020 and was scrapped. Ive 
assumed, therefore, that Miss P had use of the car from February 2017 to July 2020  
approximately 43 months.
Im not persuaded that repayments of over £360 a month are a reasonable reflection of 
what a fair usage cost would be. This is because a proportion of those repayments went 
towards repaying interest. There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage 
cost should be. In deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of 
interest charged on the agreement, Miss Ps likely overall usage of the car and what her 
costs to stay mobile would likely have been if she didnt have the car.Altogether, I currently think a fair amount Miss P should pay is £150 for each month she 
had use of the car. I understand that this means TCFC can only ask Miss P to repay a 
total of £6,450. Anything she has paid in excess of this amount should be treated as an 
overpayment.
I understand that there is a balance outstanding on the agreement. In May 2020 this was 
just over £2,000 and is currently shown on Miss Ps credit file as £1,725. I also understand 
that this debt is now owned by another company and that it recently recorded a default on
Miss Ps credit file.
To settle Miss Ps complaint, TCFC should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further for Miss P to pay. This may mean it 
needs to pay an amount to the current debt owner to cover any outstanding 
balance; and
Refund all the payments Miss P has made above the fair usage total. This 
includes any amounts paid to the current debt owner; and
Add 8% simple interest per year* to these overpayments from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ps credit file regarding 
the agreement. It may need to liaise with the current debt owner to ensure all 
adverse information is removed.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TCFC to take off tax from this interest. TCFC must 
give Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I am upholding Miss Ps complaint against The Car Finance 
Company (2007) Ltd and it needs to put things right as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman