DRN-3313143
The complaint
Mr B is complaining that a car Moneybarn No. 1 Limited supplied him under a conditional 
sale agreement was misrepresented to him.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr B took out a conditional sale agreement through Moneybarn to acquire a 
car. The car had a cash price of around £11,500, it was around six years old and had 
travelled around 41,400 miles at the point of supply. Mr B complained to Moneybarn about 
the following:
He says the car was advertised to come with a sat nav system, but it didnt have one.
He says the car had a puncture when he drove it home. He says the car was advertised 
to come with roadside assistance. He called the company he understood provided the 
cover, but it didnt have a contract with him. He took the car to a local garage to change 
the tyre. But he says that garage couldnt get the locking wheel nuts off because they 
were too tight. He said it took around two weeks to resolve this, but he says the alloy 
wheel got damage taking the nuts off.
The car was advertised to have a full-service history and MOT, but it was due a service 
and MOT.
There were issues with the paintwork where it hadnt been buffed properly.
A humming noise appeared in the suspension shortly after acquisition. He paid to 
replace one of the shock absorber bushes.
The dealership promised to collect him from the station when he came to buy the car, but 
it didnt do so.
He says he explained to Moneybarn and the supplying dealership that he wanted to reject 
the car, but he wasnt allowed to do so. So he complained to Moneybarn. Moneybarn didnt 
uphold his complaint for the following reasons:
Mr B had acquired a six-year-old car that had travelled around 41,400 miles at the point 
of supply. So it said its not unusual for the issues Mr B reported to occur from time to 
time, considering the age and mileage of this car.
Concerns related to the locking wheel nuts being too tight would not be considered a 
satisfactory quality issue with the car. And it said any concerns about further damage 
being caused to the alloy wheel by a third-party garage would need to be raised with that 
garage.
Mr B needed to inspect the car before he collected it and raise any cosmetic concerns at 
that time. It said it cant rectify issues that he subsequently raises if they werent raised at 
the time.
It said it had seen the online advert for the car, but the car wasnt advertised to come 
with a sat nav system. However, it said it understood this issue has been resolved by the 
supplying dealership.
It also said it understood the supplying dealership had resolved the issue with the service 
history and MOT.
It said it had asked Mr B to provide a report into the issues with the suspension and a 
quote for repair. But Mr B authorised the repair without providing a report. So it said it 
was unable to take this matter further. But, irrespective of this, it said that the suspension 
system is considered a wear and tear item that is not designed to last the lifetime of the 
car.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B didnt accept the investigators opinion for 
the following reasons:
He maintains the car wasnt supplied as advertised.
The supplying dealership acknowledged there were issues with the car before he 
acquired it.
He reiterated the supplying dealership said it would pay for his travel and a days 
insurance.
He said he still didnt have any roadside assistance insurance.
He was unable to inspect the car when he collected it because it was night-time.
As Mr B didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making the supplying 
dealership the agent of Moneybarn during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr B 
entering into the loan agreement, starting from when he was first approached by the 
supplying dealership. But essentially, this means Moneybarn is responsible for the acts or 
omissions of the supplying dealership in relation to the sale of the loan to Mr B. In other 
words, Moneybarn has to stand behind the things the supplying dealership said, did, didnt 
say, or didnt do during the sales process.
I think the key part of this is that this relates to discussions during the sales process. I dont 
think this extends to Mr Bs comments that the supplying dealership said it would pick him up 
from the train station. So I dont think Moneybarn is liable for this. Ive considered what Mr B 
has told us and what the online advert said. Ive seen the cars online advert and I think the 
key things here is that it says the car had the following (amongst others):
Service History
12 Months Free Breakdown Cover
All cars go through an AA 128 point check
The online advert makes no reference to the car coming with Sat Nav. I note Mr B says he 
was told it did, but Im not persuaded Ive seen enough to show it did come with Sat Nav. So 
I dont think Moneybarn needed to do anything to put things right. That said, I understand 
this has since been fitted.
Further to this, the car wasnt sold with a full-service history  merely that it had a service 
history. However, I also understand the car has been serviced since Mr B acquired it free of 
charge. So Im satisfied that any concerns Mr B had in this respect have been resolved.
Finally Ive thought about Mr Bs complaint that he doesnt think the car came with a 
12-month breakdown recovery policy as, when he called the breakdown recovery agent he 
thought was providing the cover, he was told he wasnt covered. But I havent seen anything to show he was told this recovery agent provided this cover. I understand the breakdown 
cover is provided by the supplying dealership. And I havent seen anything to show that isnt 
the case. So Im not persuaded he hasnt received the cover he was told hed receive.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn is required to put anything right owing to any 
liabilities under S56. Ive now moved on to think about whether Moneybarn has any liabilities 
under the terms of the contract.
Mr B acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015  implied a term into the agreement that the car must be of 
satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, Moneybarn is responsible for the 
quality of the car its provided under the agreement.
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this case, Mr B paid around 
£11,500 for the car. The car was around six years old and had travelled 41,400 miles at the 
point of supply. 
Mr B didnt buy a new car, so he needed to expect a degree of wear and tear and some 
faults to arise  i.e. just because some faults arose, it doesnt automatically follow that 
Moneybarn is required to fix them. The key question is whether a reasonable person would 
expect to see the issues such as Mr Bs car has suffered.
In this case, it seems to me that there were three issues  suspension issue, puncture on the 
tyre and stiff locking wheel nuts. Im not persuaded these faults would make the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Mr B says the car had a puncture on the journey home which caused further damage to the 
tyre so he had to replace it. But Im also conscious Mr B hasnt said the tyre pressure 
warning light appeared when he drove the car away  it seems to have arisen after he drove 
away. So its equally likely that Mr B picked up the puncture while driving home. Im not 
persuaded Ive seen enough to say this puncture was present when he acquired the car.
I note Mr B is unhappy that the locking wheel nuts were too stiff which caused further 
damage to his car. I also note that hes had to replace a shock absorber bush. But I think 
these are minor issues and commensurate with the age and mileage of the car. So I dont 
think these issues make the car of unsatisfactory quality. It follows, therefore, that I dont 
think Moneybarn needs to do anything to put things right.
I recognise Mr B feels strongly about whats happened and that he thinks he should have 
been allowed to reject the car. I also acknowledge hes out of pocket because of whats 
happened. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Moneybarn needs to do 
anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman