DRN-3148747
The complaint
Mr J complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined his claim for items that were 
stolen whilst he was on holiday with his family. Hes also unhappy with the way Aviva 
handled things.
What happened
Mr J had travel insurance, which was provided by Aviva. 
On 10 August 2020, whilst they were away on holiday, Mr J and his family went to the 
beach. He says one or two people stayed to look after the bags while others went swimming. 
But unfortunately, his wifes bag was stolen. 
Mr J immediately reported the theft to the police. He contacted Aviva the following day to 
make a claim. He told them the bag was worth £80 - and that inside it was a pair of designer 
sunglasses worth £188 and £750 in cash.  Aviva asked him to provide more information. But 
on 23 September 2020, they told him his claim had been declined. Mr J complained about 
the length of time theyd taken, the number of times theyd asked him for more information, 
and that theyd turned down his claim.
 
Aviva responded to Mr Js complaint on 6 November 2020. They said their decision to 
decline the claim was correct, because the circumstances in which the items had been 
stolen werent covered by the policy. But they recognised that, if theyd asked the right 
questions when Mr J first contacted them about the claim, theyd have been able to tell him 
straight away that theyd be unable to assist him. They offered him £150 compensation for 
the delays and inconvenience hed been caused by being asked for documentation 
unnecessarily. 
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong by declining Mr Js claim. He 
noted that the policy didnt cover loss or theft of personal belongings, personal money, 
baggage, or valuables left deliberately unattended. And that unattended was defined as not 
being in full view or positioned where they were unable to prevent authorised taking of their 
property. 
The investigator thought it was reasonable for Aviva to consider the evidence in the police 
report, which recorded the bag having been left lying under a deckchair, unprotected. He 
noted that, although Mr J believed his daughter was sunbathing on a nearby deckchair at the 
time it was stolen, nobody saw what happened. He thought this suggested the bag was 
unattended. And he didnt think the outcome would have been any different if the bag had 
been left between two deckchairs, instead of underneath. 
After listening to the calls between Mr J and Aviva, our investigator thought their advisor 
came across as somewhat rude. He also felt theyd repeatedly requested information, 
causing Mr J inconvenience and contributing to the delay in handling the claim. But he noted 
that theyd already offered £150 compensation for this, which he thought was fair. 
Mr J disagreed. He said the bag was not under the deckchair but in the middle of two 
deckchairs  and that there was always at least one member of the family present. He felt he 
hadnt been able to explain the story very well because his English isnt very good. He asked 
for an ombudsman to review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance that insurers such as 
Aviva must follow  these are set out in the Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). This includes a requirement to handle claims promptly and fairly, and not to 
unreasonably reject a claim. Ive considered the way Aviva handled Mr Js claim with this in 
mind. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect insurers to cover every eventuality  theyre entitled to 
set out what cover theyre prepared to offer. Theyre also entitled to expect policy holders to 
comply with conditions set out in the policy to reduce the risk  provided theyre fair and 
reasonable. Ive read Avivas policy booklet in detail to see what cover theyd agree to 
provide to Mr J. 
The policy offers cover for personal money, belongings and valuables. But there are special 
conditions and exclusions that apply. The policy makes it clear that Mr J is expected to take 
reasonable care to keep his personal money, belongings and valuables safe. It says loss or 
theft of these things wont be covered if theyve been left deliberately unattended. I dont 
consider these policy terms to be unfair or unreasonable. So, Ive gone on to consider 
whether it was fair for Aviva to decide that Mr Js wife had left her bag unattended at the time 
it went missing.
Ive reviewed the evidence that was available to Aviva about the events that day. Ive seen a 
copy of the police report of the incident, in which Mr Js wife made a statement about what 
had happened. It starts by saying the handbag was lying under her deckchair. The report 
later says shed left her handbag behind the deckchair, which was unprotected. But that, 
upon her return at 4.00pm, she saw that it was no longer under/beside the chair. 
Ive also listened to the recordings of the phone conversations in which Mr J told Aviva what 
had happened. On 11 August 2020, when he first told them about the incident, he explained 
that hed come back from swimming in the sea with his wife to discover the bag had gone. 
Mr J said the beach had been very crowded with visitors. Avivas claims handler didnt ask 
him whether any of his family had stayed with the bag whilst he was swimming. Instead he 
asked Mr J to provide further evidence about the money and belongings that had been 
stolen.
On 14 September 2020, Aviva asked Mr J more detailed questions about what had 
happened when the bag went missing. Ive listened to the recording of this conversation 
carefully. Mr J explained that his younger daughter had been going in and out of the sea, but 
that his older daughter had been on the deckchair, sunbathing. He said he couldnt explain 
why she hadnt noticed the bag being taken. He said the beach was very busy that day  
and that his daughter may have had her eyes closed while she was sunbathing, as people 
often do. 
I can understand Mr Js frustration at his claim being declined, even though hes explained 
that a member of his family stayed with the bags all the time. And I can appreciate his concern that, because he doesnt consider his English to be very good, Aviva perhaps hadnt 
understood what hed told them. 
But, based on the evidence given in the police report and over the phone, I consider it fair 
and reasonable for Aviva to decide that the bag was unattended. I want to reassure Mr J 
that this had nothing to do with the fact that English isnt his first language - I see no reason 
why Avivas staff would find him difficult to understand. I dont think it makes any difference 
whether the bag was behind, underneath or beside the deckchair when it was stolen. I say 
this because, for these purposes, Mr Js policy defines unattended as:
Not in your full view or positioned where you are unable to prevent unauthorised 
taking of your property, unless it is left in a locked room or safe.
I dont dispute what Mr J has told us about a member of his family sitting near the bag at all 
times. But Im not persuaded that it was in their full view, or that they were in a position to be 
able to prevent somebody taking it. Im satisfied that, if the bag had been in full view of a 
family member at all times, they would have seen what happened to it. For that reason, I 
cant say Aviva treated Mr J unfairly by declining his claim.
Aviva have accepted that, if theyd asked the right questions when Mr J contacted them on 
11 August 2020, they could have told him at that stage that the stolen items wouldnt be 
covered by the policy. Theyve recognised that he was asked to provide further evidence to 
support his claim, which was unnecessary. Ive seen that theyve already offered Mr J £150 
compensation for the additional inconvenience and delay this caused. I think thats fair and 
reasonable, so I wont be asking them to do anything more.  
My final decision
The business has already made an offer to pay Mr J £150 to settle this complaint. I think this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should 
pay Mr J £150.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman