DRN-2938717
The complaint
Mr J complains that Bank of Scotland plc has been unable to trace his account following a 
re-discovered passbook.
What happened
Mr J says he found an old passbook for an account he held with a business taken over by 
Bank of Scotland (BoS). He says the passbook showed a balance of about £3,387 and that 
the last entry was from 1998. Mr J says BoS has been unable to trace the account and says 
it should pay him the account balance.
BoS says it has checked its records and has no trace of this account. It says it doesnt have 
records going back some 33 years. BoS has paid £50 compensation for inconvenience Mr J 
was caused by not providing him with information when he attended a branch. It says it likely 
the account was closed some years before.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought BoS had searched for the account and didnt think a passbook was always needed 
for withdrawals. 
Mr J doesnt accept that view and maintains he didnt receive any letters about the account. 
He says BoS has his money and says the passbook was found with other items from 
between 1985 and 1988.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr J will be disappointed by my decision and also appreciate how strongly he 
feels about this complaint. I will not comment in detail about the compensation paid by BoS 
as that is not Mr Js complaint here, but I think that award fair and reasonable for that limited 
part of this complaint.
Im satisfied that a re-discovered passbook doesnt necessarily mean that an account is still 
open or has been made dormant. Im also satisfied that banks and building societies would 
allow transactions to take place without a passbook being present and that on occasions 
passbooks can get lost.
I have looked at BoSs records and am satisfied that it searched for Mr Js account but 
couldnt find it. And I wouldnt have expected BoS to have kept records of transactions going 
back some 33 years. I think it likely Mr Js passbook was placed with the other items from 
between 1985 and 1988 and left there until recently discovered. And that it more likely that 
Mr Js account was closed some years ago and that he received his money.
I dont think on balance that BoS has Mr Js money or has lost it. And in those 
circumstances, I wouldnt have expected Mr J to have received any recent letters about his 
account.
Overall, Im satisfied BoS has done what we would have expected it to have done in these 
circumstances and searched for the account. I cant fairly order BoS to do anything further in 
the circumstances of this complaint and think this brings an end to what we in trying to 
resolve this complaint informally can do to help Mr J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman