DRN-3786444
The complaint
Mr A complains that Think Money Limited took too long to return payments into his account.
What happened
Mr A had an account with Think Money. In June 2022, Mr A expected to receive a payment 
of £9,749.80. But Think Money says the payment was delayed as part of its compliance 
procedures, security and risk checks. On 16 June 2022 Think Money informed Mr A that the 
funds would be returned to the account they were sent from. It says it did this on 17 June 
2022.  
Dissatisfied, Mr A complained to Think Money. Think Money told Mr A it returned the 
£9,749.80 in line with its normal timescales. But when investigating the complaint it noticed it 
had also delayed some other payments  of £6, £1, and £37.85  for longer than its usual 
timescales. To put things right, it offered to pay Mr A £40 for the trouble and upset this 
caused.
Mr A says the recipient of the funds didnt receive them. He says he had to chase both Think 
Money and the recipient until 22 June before the payment was credited to the account. He 
wants compensation for this delay.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr A didnt 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like all financial businesses, Think Money is subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean it may need to review payments made into the account. This is 
also reflected in the terms and conditions that applied to Mr As account. These said that 
Think Money may delay or refuse to carry out a transaction on Mr As accounts in certain 
circumstances. The terms go on to say that
Our procedures and usual security and risk checks apply to all payments made to or from 
your account. This may result in us holding, delaying or refusing to accept a transaction or 
instruction.
In this case, Mr A was sent a payment of £9,749.80. The payment came from Mr As 
businesss account with a payment processor. Based on what Ive seen, Think Money was 
acting in line with the terms and conditions when it reviewed this payment.
Think Money says that it completed its review and then returned the funds to Mr As 
businesss account. Id expect Think Money to complete its review in a timely manner. Here, 
Mr A expected the payment to be made on 13 June, and first asked what had happened to it 
on 14 June. Think Money said it completed the review and notified Mr A that it intended to 
return the funds on 16 June  and then returned the funds on 17 June. I accept this delay 
would have been inconvenient to Mr A. But the review appears to have been carried out in a 
timely way, and I cant conclude Think Money should have done things any quicker than it 
did.
Mr A says his business didnt receive these funds until 22 June. Ive thought about what 
Mr A and Think Money have said about that. Think Money says the funds were transferred 
on 17 June 2022. Mr A, meanwhile, has sent us emails between him and the other financial 
business. I see the other financial business told Mr A on 17 June that it couldnt locate the 
funds  and didnt confirm receipt until 22 June. 
Having listened to the calls between Think Money and Mr A, though, I note that Think Money 
explained that it was waiting for confirmation that the other bank had accepted the funds. 
Think Money has told us it later received confirmation that the funds had been received by 
the other financial institution  and sent Mr A a reference number on 20 June to confirm this. 
I further note the terms and conditions of Mr As account said that although faster payment 
transfer would normally be received within two hours of a valid payment order, in some 
cases it could take until the end of the following business day.
Thinking about everything, I accept that the delay to the return of this payment would have 
been inconvenient for Mr A.  Im satisfied, however, that the terms and conditions allowed 
Think Money to delay payments and return funds in these circumstances. Think Money 
reviewed the payment and initiated the return in a timely manner. And I cant hold 
Think Money responsible for delays between the other bank receiving the funds and it being 
credited to Mr As account with the payment processor.
With all this in mind, Im satisfied Think Money blocked the payment and returned the funds 
in line with its terms and conditions. It follows that I dont uphold this part of Mr As complaint, 
and Im not telling Think Money to do anything further to put this right.
Ive considered Think Money and Mr As further comments.
First, I acknowledge what Mr A has said about the impact this all had on him. Hes 
mentioned the severe anxiety and stress he suffered, as well as the difficulties this caused 
with him feeding his family and paying the wages of his staff.
I have every sympathy for Mr A and dont doubt hes had a difficult time. But as Ive found 
Think Money was acting in line with its terms and conditions, this isnt something Im going to 
tell Think Money to pay compensation for. The funds were blocked for only a few days, and I 
dont accept this time was unreasonable.
Finally, Think Money accepts that there were additional, much smaller, payments into Mr As 
account  in 2021  that were delayed for longer than they should have been. It offered to 
pay Mr A £40 to reflect the trouble and upset this caused. As Mr A hasnt said this caused 
any additional impact, I think this is a more than fair resolution to that part of Mr As 
complaint. I make no further award.
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that the £40 Think Money Limited has already 
offered is fair. Think Money should pay this if it hasnt already. I make no further award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman