DRN-4152115
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as M has complained about how Fortegra Europe Insurance
Company Ltd dealt with a claim on its Van Hire Excess Insurance Policy.
Ms P, a director of M, has brought the complaint on Ms behalf. For ease of reading, I will
refer to M throughout.
What happened
M bought a daily van hire excess policy from Fortegra. The van M rented was damaged and
M had to pay the rental company for the damage and so claimed on the policy with Fortegra.
Fortegra reviewed the claim and turned it down. It said only van rentals which started and
ended during the period of insurance would be covered. And as the van had been delivered
to M the day before the policy started, Fortegra said the claim wasnt covered. Fortegra also
said the lead driver on the policy wasnt the person named on the rental agreement and so
there was no cover.
Unhappy with Fortegras response, M complained. It said the van had been delivered the 
day
earlier without its knowledge and that the rental company had written to Fortegra to confirm
the rental started the same day as the policy. It also said M had an account with the rental
company and the agreement only had Ms Ps name on it as shes the contact for the
account with the rental company. M said it had paid £1,150 to the rental company because
Fortegra declined the claim.
Fortegra reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. It maintained its position that as the 
van
was delivered the day before the policy started there was no cover. It also said the lead
driver on the policy would also need to be the policyholder and as the rental agreement was
not in the lead driver and policyholders name then there wasnt any cover. M didnt agree
and referred its complaint here.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She found that
Fortegra hadnt applied the term about when the rental started fairly and also didnt think
Fortegra had shown what difference it made about the lead driver not being the person
named on the van rental agreement. Because of this, our investigator recommended 
Fortegra
reconsider the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 May 2023 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Ms policy which Fortegra have relied upon say:
When purchasing a daily policy, the policy period must fully cover the period shown on the
rental agreement. No policy can be purchased retrospectively. And:
The lead driver indicated on the rental agreement must coincide with the policyholder and
lead drivers name on the certificate of insurance.
Ill address the terms concerning the rental period first. The certificate of insurance states the
policy is in force from 24 March 2022 until 28 March 2022.The rental agreement shows a
start date of 23 March 2022 but says to charge from 24 March. M has also provided an e-
mail from the rental company to Fortegra which explains the van was dropped off in the
afternoon of 23 March 2022 ready for the rental to commence on 24 March 2022.
As the rental period for the van is 24  28 March 2022, Im satisfied the policy fully covers
the rental period shown on the agreement. I say that because it appears the van was
dropped of early due to the rental company and that Ms rental didnt actually start until 24
March. Im therefore not satisfied that M has applied this term in a fair and reasonable way
and so Im not satisfied it can rely on this term to turn down the claim.
For the second term Fortegra has relied upon, I can see the rental agreement is in Ms name
and Ms Ps name. M has said this is because M has an account with the rental company and
so Ms P is listed as she manages the account for M. I can also see from the internal screen
shots the rental company sent to Fortegra that there are internal notes which say, Must 
meet
with named primary driver and the screen shot notes there are two additional drivers. M has
said the primary driver is the same person who is listed as the lead driver on the policy with
Fortegra.
Fortegra has pointed out that during the sale process it makes it clear that the lead driver will
also be the policyholder. For the policy with Fortegra, the policyholder is Ms P and the lead
driver on the certificate of insurance is the same person M has said was the primary driver of
the rental vehicle.
When considering this term, I can see the only person named on the rental agreement is Ms
P, and this coincides with the policyholder as that is also listed as Ms P. Ive also noted that
Fortegra has listed the lead driver and policyholder as two different people, so it would never
be possible for this term to be met and Fortegra was clearly aware of this when it sold the
policy. Furthermore, M said the lead driver on the policy was also the primary driver of the
van under the agreement and this appears to be supported by the internal notes Ive seen.
So when taking into account it would never be possible to meet this term, Im not persuaded
its fair and reasonable for Fortegra to rely upon it to decline this claim, given that it knew the
lead driver was not the policyholder when it sold the policy and provided cover on that basis
As Im not satisfied Fortegra has shown its applied the terms in a fair and reasonable way 
Im
not satisfied its shown it was fair to turn down the claim. Because of this, M said its paid
£1,150 to the rental company. Its also provided an invoice which says: Customers
Deductible/Damage Excess Owed: 1,150. As M has paid this amount and Im not satisfied
Fortegra has acted fairly and reasonably in declining this claim. Fortegra needs to pay Ms
claim, subject to any policy excess or limit. As M has been without this money, 8% simple
interest per year should be added to what it pays, to compensate M for not having the
money. This should be calculated from the date M paid it until the date Fortegra makes
payment.
M responded and said it didnt have anything further to add. Fortegra responded and 
accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party disagreed with my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd to pay Ms claim,
subject to any policy excess or limits. 8% simple interest per year should also be added to
what it pays, calculated from the date M paid the invoice until the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman