DRN-3497307
The complaint
Mr P complains about charges he was asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited, trading as Mercedes Benz Financial Services (MBFS) when he returned cars 
he had been leasing through them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings. 
Mr P acquired his cars under regulated consumer credit agreements and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about them.  
The terms of the finance agreements held Mr P responsible for keeping the cars in good 
condition. He would be responsible for any damage if the cars werent returned in the correct 
condition.
The damage charges 
Whilst MBFS have their own vehicle return standards the industry guidelines for what is 
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is 
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). 
The investigator has considered the damage identified in the inspection photographs against 
the MBFS vehicle return standard. I would agree with his comments in respect of that 
standard. All of the damage identified is chargeable except for the cracked left-hand front 
tyre on the A180 where the photograph does not adequately demonstrate an inadequate 
condition, and the dented right-hand rear quarter panel on the S350 were again there isnt 
sufficient evidence.
Ive also considered the damage against the BVRLA guidance. In some cases that guidance 
sets slightly different tolerances, but I dont think any of the damage, except that noted 
above, would be considered acceptable under that standard either. 
The extra rental days
In recognition of the national lockdown restrictions MBFS have already reduced the charge 
for extra days from 111 days down to 16 days for the A180, and 112 days down to 49 for the 
other car. As Mr P had the cars for longer than the agreed period I think its fair for MBFS to 
make charges for an additional 16 and 49 days respectively.
The mileage charges
I would agree with the investigator that the mileage charges havent been calculated fairly as 
I think it would have been fair for MBFS to include the extra rental days in the calculation.
For the A180 the contractual maximum mileage was 24,000 and the car was returned having 
completed 32,708. But I think it would have been fair for MBFS to have increased the 
maximum mileage limit to take account of the 16 extra days of hire. The daily mileage 
allowance was 24,000/1,460 = 16.44 and MBFS should therefore allow a mileage of 24,263 
before making charges for the A180 car.
For the S350 the contractual maximum mileage was 48,000 and the car was returned having 
completed 62,927. But I think it would have been fair for MBFS to have increased the 
maximum mileage limit to take account of the 49 extra days of hire. The daily mileage 
allowance was 32.88 and MBFS should therefore allow a mileage of 49,611 before making 
charges for the S350 car.
Putting things right
Im asking MBFS to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to:
Remove the charge theyve made for the cracked left-hand rear tyre on the A180 and 
the dented right-hand rear quarter panel on the S350.
Recalculate the mileage charges on both agreements as Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman