DRN-3258005
The complaint
Mrs M complains she didnt receive suitable recommendations from Wren Sterling Financial 
Planning Limited (Wren). 
Mrs M is represented by her daughter who has a Lasting Power of Attorney. For clarity, Ill 
refer to all actions as being those of Mrs Ms.
What happened
Mrs M met with an adviser from Wren in March 2020. Shed recently received an unexpected 
lump sum from an unintended maturity of a bond which caused both income tax and 
potential inheritance tax (IHT) liabilities. Wren prepared a report to address the issues 
caused by the maturity of the bond, as well as looking at Mrs Ms requirements for long term 
care funding, and her portfolio as a whole.
Wren made recommendations to Mrs M which included the following:
- Surrender the long term care bond and gift the proceeds
- Reduce the risk exposure of Mrs Ms general investment account (GIA) and ISA
- Gift the unintended proceeds of the bond maturity
Following the recommendations, Mrs M raised some concerns. She said that there wasnt 
enough thought about long term care requirements, a cash flow analysis wasnt completed, 
she didnt want to exclusively invest ethically, especially as that attracted higher costs, and 
the fee of £15,000 for the advice wasnt justified. Mrs Ms attorney was also concerned over 
a conflict that was created by agreeing to gift money as she would also be a beneficiary.
Wren didnt think it had done anything wrong but agreed to reduce the fee to £13,822 due to 
a lack of clarity in the suitability report around the alternatives to fund the long term care 
costs. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He made the following points:
- Wren prepared a fact find and established Mrs Ms circumstances and objectives.
- The advice Wren gave was suitable and in line with Mrs Ms circumstances and 
objectives.
- Wren explained why it didnt think the long term care bond was good value for money 
and it discussed a number of options relating to Mrs Ms care needs. The 
recommendation to rely on her existing assets to fund care wasnt unreasonable. 
Wren couldve made it clearer in the suitability report but its unlikely that wouldve led 
to Mrs M doing anything differently.
- The advice relating to reducing Mrs Ms risk exposure in her GIA and ISA was 
suitable. The documents all show that Mrs M was happy to invest in ethical funds and 
the fund chosen was diversified enough to meet her objectives. 
- Wren discussed multiple options in relation to the unintended bond proceeds and the 
recommendation to gift the proceeds wasnt unreasonable given Mrs Ms age and 
desire for the funds to fall outside of her estate. Theres nothing to suggest that a 
potential conflict for Mrs Ms attorney made this advice unsuitable.
- The fees charged were set out sufficiently clearly for Mrs M to understand.
- The reduction in fee adequately compensates for the administration issues Mrs M 
experienced.
Wren agreed with our Investigator and provided an additional email to show the disposal of 
the long term care bond had been discussed. Mrs M disagreed. She explained that Wren 
made rough assumptions relating to care costs and it was not adequately addressed. Mrs M 
feels the fees are too high given the only recommendation she could accept was in relation 
to reducing the risk in her GIA and ISA which she felt other advisers could do for less cost. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is solely in relation to advice Wren gave Mrs M in her personal capacity. It 
doesnt address any issues relating to the trusts which our Investigator has already 
explained. Having considered everything, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator 
for similar reasons. Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ms circumstances and objectives
Its broadly agreed that Mrs M approached Wren to deal with the effects of her unintended 
bond maturity proceeds. Wren, as Id expect it to do, completed a fact find to ensure it 
understood Mrs Ms circumstances. Ive seen a copy of the fact find which lists Mrs Ms 
income, expenditure, assets and current portfolio amongst other things.
Mrs M was 89 years old at the time and had a range of investments. She was receiving 
pension income, rental income and investment income. Her estate was worth over £900,000 
of which around £400,000 was liable for IHT. Wren assessed Mrs Ms attitude to risk and 
capacity for loss. It was agreed that Mrs Ms attitude to risk was a 3 on a scale of 7. Wren 
concluded that her current investment portfolio posed too high a risk.
Mrs M has said that Wren didnt carry out a cash flow analysis, and it had inflated her assets. 
Ive not seen evidence that this was the case but I do accept it didnt carry out a cash flow 
analysis. However, I cant see that the information in the fact find  that shows Mrs M had a 
surplus income of around £1,000 per month  was incorrect. It was based on this information 
that Wren made its recommendations.
Recommendations relating to Mrs Ms GIA and ISA
Its not disputed that Mrs Ms portfolio presented too high a risk and needed to be changed. 
Mrs Ms complaint about this part is that the recommendation was to invest only in ethical 
funds which attracted higher charges. She has said it wasnt a priority to invest ethically.
Ive looked at the fact find and suitability report. In this, Mrs M was asked questions in 
relation to ethical investments. Specifically, she selected the option that said:
I would like to invest my money in a way that focuses on investment returns and creating 
positive impact for the people and planet, but I dont mind how that happensIt was because of this that Wren advised Mrs M on investing ethically. And the fund 
recommended met Mrs Ms risk profile and objectives. The fund was sufficiently diversified 
and the cost of it was set out. Wrens responsibility was to provide suitable advice to Mrs M, 
and I can see it did so here and in line with Mrs Ms circumstances. So, I dont consider it 
has done anything wrong in recommending an ethical fund for her investments.
Recommendations relating to Mrs Ms long term care needs
When Wren assessed Mrs Ms circumstances it looked at an existing long term care bond 
she had in place. It recommended that she surrender the bond and gift the proceeds with the 
expectation that it would fall outside of her estate after seven years. Wren explained in its 
suitability report that the bond had become a cost rather than a benefit. This is because it 
was unlikely to provide value for money if Mrs M was able to make a valid claim unless her 
health deteriorated significantly and her claim was for longer than three years.
Ive noted the suitability report refers to Mrs M not envisaging making a valid claim, and not 
valuing the cover. Mrs M says this wasnt the case, and the aim was to ensure that her care 
costs would be covered if she needed it later in life. I agree that the suitability report doesnt 
go into full details about how to address Mrs Ms long term care needs. However, I dont 
think the advice about surrendering a policy that was no longer value for money was 
unsuitable. Further correspondence addressed that the potential cost for care could be met 
with Mrs Ms existing cash assets in addition to her income.
Wren acknowledged that the suitability report couldve contained more details about the long 
term care possibilities. It said that had Mrs M chosen to have ongoing advice it couldve 
been addressed as and when the issue arose. It reduced its fee to cover the 
recommendations that Mrs M proceeded with  essentially discounting the advice about the 
long term care bond. 
I dont think Wren needs to do anything more here. I find it unlikely that Mrs M wouldve done 
anything differently had Wren put more information in its suitability report. It has shown it 
considered other options but felt that Mrs M would be able to fund any care costs, so I dont 
think additional detail wouldve led to Mrs M being in a different position. The 
recommendation it made wasnt unsuitable.
Mrs M has pointed out that she specifically approached Wren to have a bespoke plan for her 
long term care needs. I cant see this was the sole reason from the documents, but in any 
event the advice Wren gave wasnt unsuitable. I appreciate that Mrs M didnt wish to accept 
it, but this doesnt mean Wren has done something wrong. 
Recommendations about the unintended maturity proceeds
It appears Wren focused its advice around the issue Mrs M faced with an unintended bond 
maturity. Its worth noting at this point that Wren wasnt involved in the cause of the issue. 
But it gave advice in relation to the tax consequences caused by the problem. 
Ive carefully considered the fact find and suitability report and I can see that Wren 
considered a number of options to mitigate Mrs Ms tax liability. Its suggestion that the 
proceeds be gifted wasnt unreasonable. To ensure the funds fell outside of the estate, a 
seven year period would need to pass. I can see Wren considered whether a Discounted 
Gift Trust would be suitable but concluded that it was unlikely a discount would apply given 
Mrs Ms age. Wren explained that Mrs M didnt have a need for the money at that point, or in 
the future, and so gifting it was the simplest option which posed the least risk. If Wren had 
recommended a tax efficient bond or trust the funds would be exposed to risk and would still be subject to the same time period for it to fall outside of Mrs Ms estate. I dont think the 
advice to gift the proceeds was unsuitable and it met Mrs Ms objectives.
Mrs Ms attorney is worried this advice would cause a conflict, as she is also a beneficiary. 
However, the advice was from a qualified professional which mitigates the conflict, and I 
dont consider this fact to mean the recommendation was unsuitable.
Fees
Its clear that Mrs M is disappointed with the advice she received from Wren, but Ive 
concluded why I dont think that advice was unsuitable. I appreciate she feels shes being 
charged too high a fee, but it was her choice to not go ahead with all the recommendations. 
In any event, Ive considered whether Wren clearly disclosed the cost of the advice and Im 
satisfied that it has.
Wrens suitability report set out the costs in tables. I can appreciate that in isolation, this may 
be difficult to calculate as the costs are tiered with investment valuations. However, Wren 
later went on to give a specific figure that was the result of adding up the different tables. 
This figure was £15,582 but Wren said it would cap the figure at £15,000. I cant agree that 
this wasnt sufficiently clear, and Im satisfied Wren has explained what the cost is for.
Summary
I understand that Mrs M will be disappointed with this decision but I hope Ive explained why 
I dont think Wren has done anything wrong. I do appreciate that Mrs M wasnt happy with 
the recommendations in full, but Wrens obligation is to make suitable recommendations 
based on her circumstances and objectives. I can see that it did so here. It has reduced its 
fee due to not including more information about Mrs Ms long term care options in the 
suitability report, I wont be asking it to do anything more. I dont think that Mrs M would be in 
any different position had Wren included more information about this as she wasnt willing to 
accept the recommendation it made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman