DRN-4261304
The complaint
Miss G complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) declined 
a claim for the theft of her car under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss G had a motor insurance policy with Advantage covering her car.
Her car was stolen from outside her home in January 2023 and she made a claim. 
The car was recovered by the police. The people who took the car were convicted of taking 
the car and other crimes.
When the car was recovered, a key was found in it. Advantage carried out an analysis of the 
car and the key. 
Miss G wasnt able to find the second key for her car. She thinks its been misplaced in her 
home or her partners vehicle. 
Advantage thought that the car had been taken using the key which had been left in it, or the 
car had been left unsecured. It declined the claim. 
The police charged for recovery and storage of the car., Advantage paid £236.90 for this, but 
then asked Miss G to pay for it when it rejected her claim. Miss G also had to pay £90 to 
collect her car from Advantages repairer and incurred travel costs of about £60.
Advantage took ten weeks to decline the claim. It provided a hire car for about six weeks 
during this time.
Advantage agreed some of its service hadnt been good enough and it paid a total of £80 to 
Miss G.
She was unhappy with Advantages response and brought her complaint to this service. She 
asks that Advantage refund her the recovery and storage costs, her additional travel 
expenses while she didnt have a car, and compensation for her distress.
Our investigator looked into Miss Gs complaint and thought it would be upheld. She thought 
it should deal with the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy plus 8% simple 
interest. She also thought Advantage should pay an additional £100 for her inconvenience.
Miss G accepted the view but Advantage responded and said it thought Miss G should have 
safeguarded her car when she realised the second key was missing. It said she should have 
changed the cars locks. 
Because Advantage didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Gs complaint.
Miss G she said had two keys for her car. The key found in the car when it was recovered, 
which I think is reasonably the car used to steal the car, was analysed by Advantages 
forensic expert. The key isnt a type that can hold data, and the forensic report says that the 
mileage of the car was reasonably representative of the amount of wear and tear on the key. 
The expert thought the key was likely the main key for the car.
Both keys were apparently kept together in the kitchen of her home. Miss G says she didnt 
notice the absence of the spare key and simply thought shed misplaced it at home or in her 
partners car a few months before the car was taken. Shes the only driver of the car.
Its important that I say its not my role to determine how the theft occurred. My role is to 
consider whether Advantage behaved fairly when investigating the claim and that its 
conclusions are supported by the evidence.
When Advantage use a policy condition to repudiate a claim its essential that it provides 
evidence about this. In Miss Gs case, Advantage has said it was using:
3. Theft claims
Youre not covered for any claim for the theft of your Car unless:
 Your Car was fully locked and secured and any Keys that unlock it were removed
And:
What isnt covered under sections 1 and 2 Youre not covered for:
 Theft or damage, if the Car Keys were left in or on the Car or if the Car is left 
unattended with the engine running
Ive considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Advantage to rely on these terms and 
decline Miss Gs claim. In its evidence, Advantage hasnt shown Miss G failed to lock her car 
or that she failed to ensure the keys were removed from it at the time. So, I dont think its 
shown either of the points stated above would apply here. 
In its response, Advantage says:
Either the keys were left in or around the vehicle, or Miss G failed to safeguard the 
vehicle when they knew the key was missing. There is no evidence of a burglary 
taking place
This refers to a requirement that Miss G needs to protect by safeguarding it from harm. 
Ive said above she has said she had two sets of keys and noticed the other set was missing 
a few months prior to the theft, but simply thought shed misplaced it. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that Miss G would have recognised there 
was a risk of her car being stolen as she thought the spare key was still either inside her 
home or in her partners car.So, as Miss G wasnt reasonably aware of a risk to her car, I dont find it reasonable to 
expect her to have taken steps to safeguard it by carrying out actions like having the locks 
changed, as Advantage has said.
Ive said above that its essential Advantage provide evidence for why its rejecting a claim, 
and in this case I dont think it has. 
So I dont think Advantages approach here is fair and reasonable and I think it needs to 
settle Miss Gs claim in line with the remaining policy terms. For the avoidance of doubt, this 
includes, but isnt limited to, refunding the amounts paid by Miss G to it for vehicle recovery 
and storage. I also think its reasonable that Advantage repay her travel costs during this 
period of about £60 subject to evidence being provided.
Miss G has also expressed her dissatisfaction with Advantages procedures. I can see shes 
been caused distress and inconvenience by its handling of the claim to the point when she 
contacted this service, she said she didnt want to have anything further to do with 
Advantage. 
I have read about Advantages poor service to Miss G, and particularly about it taking ten 
weeks to reject her claim. I can also see she was given wrong information by it during her 
claim and had to chase it repeatedly for updates. Advantage did provide Miss G with a hire 
car for several weeks during the claim, and I think this was fair and reasonable of 
Advantage. 
In the view, our investigator offered her an additional compensation of £100 which I can see 
Miss G has accepted. Because shes accepted this amount I think the fair approach is to 
require Advantage to pay it to her.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Settle Miss Gs claim on the remaining policy terms. Interest at 8% simple should be 
added to this, from one month after the claim was made to the date payment is 
made.
Pay Miss G an additional £100 for her distress and inconvenience caused by its 
claims handling.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay 
interest on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman