DRN-2704033
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Assurant declined her claim for a lost mobile phone and is unhappy 
with the handling of her claim under her Tech Pack Mobile and Gadget policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mrs A has mobile phone insurance for her Apple iPhone XS Max.
Mrs A lost her phone and registered a claim with Assurant in March 2020. She said 
the phone was in her jacket that was in a pushchair whilst at the park. She realised 
she didnt have her phone when she returned home.
Assurant asked about details of the incident, for screen shots of the phone on Mrs 
As iCloud account and screen shots of the phone in lost mode which she sent while 
she was speaking to Assurant. The Find my iPhone feature was also active, and Mrs 
A was asked not to remove this feature. 
The following day Mrs A was advised that because her phone was removed from the 
Find my iPhone feature, Assurant couldnt continue with the claim assessment and 
the claim was closed.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He felt it was fair for Assurant to decline 
the claim as Mrs A hadnt adhered to the policy terms. He also didnt think the claim 
handlers attitude and behaviour during the phone calls was unreasonable and 
remained professional throughout. He recognised that there were times where a 
disagreement arose, but he felt the claim handler was trying to explain the current 
position which Mrs A didnt agree with.
Mrs A disagreed. She felt the questions asked by Assurant during the claim 
investigation were inappropriate. Mrs A said she followed all the steps given to her by 
Assurant and provided a screen shot showing that the phone will go into lost mode 
when connected to the internet.
The investigators opinion remained unchanged. He said the claim was declined 
because the Find my iPhone feature was removed. Putting the phone into lost mode 
doesnt remove the Find my iPhone feature. The investigator also pointed out that the 
screenshot provided by Mrs A showed a phone in 'lost mode pending' but the phone 
shown wasnt the same phone being claimed for. The claim was for an iPhone XS 
Max, but the screenshot showed an iPhone with a home button, which the iPhone XS 
Max doesn't have. Finally, he said that asking for details about Mrs As trip to 
Romania wasnt inappropriate as the call handler was attempting to validate her 
claim.
Mrs A remained dissatisfied with the outcome of her complaint. And so, the complaint has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman to make a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim decision
The policy document details a list of policy conditions that need to be adhered to when 
making a claim. One of these conditions is:
If your device has the functionality, activate any location finder app or software to help you 
in retrieving it.
We know the Find my iPhone functionality was active on 18 March 2021 and Assurant said 
that if this is removed, the claim would not be considered further. But this feature was 
removed. Mrs A said this was removed when she attempted to place the phone into lost 
mode. But the investigator referred to the Apple website which shows the phone can be in 
lost mode when Find my iPhone is active. Mrs A also confirmed the phone was protected by 
a passcode/face ID which is only known to her and her iCloud account passcode was only 
known by her. As no one knew this information its unlikely that the phone was removed from 
Find My iPhone by a third party.
An insurer can decline a claim when a policyholder doesnt comply with a policy condition 
when the circumstances of the claim are connected to not complying with that policy 
condition. Not having the Find my iPhone feature active has meant that Assurant hasnt 
been able to validate Mrs As claim. So, Im persuaded not adhering to the policy condition is 
connected to the claim and I dont think Assurant has acted unreasonably when declining it.
Claim investigation issues
I acknowledge Mrs As point about how she felt some of the questions asked by Assurant 
were in appropriate and that she was unhappy with the attitude of the claim handler. 
Ive listened to the calls and feel the questions asked were relevant and the call handler 
explained why this information was needed. Further, Im satisfied the call handler remained 
professional throughout. So, Im not persuaded Assurant did anything wrong on this 
occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman