DRN-2928778
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wont pay his full travel insurance claim and 
about its service.
What happened
Mr M had a travel insurance policy insured by Aviva which had a trip limit of 90 days. On 
10 November 2019 Mr M went to India intending to stay until early April 2020. On 18 March 
2020 his original return flight was cancelled by the airline due to Covid-19 restrictions. The 
return flight was rearranged several times by the airline until Mr M returned to the UK in 
August 2020.
During Mr Ms extended stay hotels were closed in India due to Covid-19 restrictions so he 
stayed with someone as a paying guest. He claimed for his accommodation and living costs. 
Aviva declined Mr Ms claim for those costs because the 90 days trip limit had ended on 
8 February 2020 and at that date there were no travel restrictions between the UK and India 
preventing Mr M from returning to the UK. Aviva did pay Mr M £250 under the travel 
disruption section of the policy but later said it paid by mistake. Aviva didnt ask Mr M to 
repay the £250.
Mr M complained to us. He said:
Aviva should pay his claim in full as he only stayed in India beyond the end date of 
his policy because his flight was cancelled due to Covid-19 restrictions
Avivas service had been poor as it kept him waiting on the phone on hold for a long 
time and had prolonged the claim so he wants compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience.
Our investigator said Aviva had acted fairly.
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He said Aviva had given us the wrong 
date for his flight to India. Our investigator sent Mr M the evidence shed seen when making 
her recommendation and said if Mr M had documentary evidence of alternative dates we 
would take that into account. Mr M hasnt provided any new evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority say an insurer must handle claims 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint
Mr M bought a policy with a trip limit of 90 days. The policy says:
This policy does not cover the following:
Any incident which happens after the trip duration limit, shown on your policy 
schedule, has been exceeded.
Mr M sent Aviva an e-ticket from his airline which showed he travelled from the UK to India 
on 10 November 2019. Before Mr M sent documentary evidence of his flight details he told 
Aviva hed left the UK for India at a later date but hes provided no documentary evidence to 
support a later date. 
From the documents Aviva had Im satisfied it reasonably understood Mr Ms trip started on 
10 November 2019. The trip limit of 90 days means the policy cover ended on 8 February 
2020.
Mr M says the only reason he extended his trip beyond the 90 days covered by the policy 
was because Covid-19 restrictions meant he couldnt return to the UK. But from the evidence 
Ive seen flight restrictions due to Covid-19 that would affect Mr M didnt start until mid-March 
2020. So Mr Ms policy had ended over a month before there were Covid-19 restrictions 
which prevented him from returning to the UK. The policy had also ended over a month 
before his original return flight was cancelled. 
Ive no evidence to support that Mr M stayed in India beyond the policy end date only 
because Covid-19 restrictions meant he couldnt return to the UK. The evidence is that after 
his policy ended he continued his trip for over a month before relevant Covid-19 restrictions 
took effect. So Im satisfied that Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in declining his claim for 
accommodation and living expenses.
Flight disruption benefit
Mr M says Aviva was unfair to pay him £250 under the flight disruption section of the policy 
but not pay his full claim because it wasnt covered by the policy. 
Aviva paid Mr M the £250 benefit because in a call he told Aviva he had a flight on 
7 February 2020 (the day before the end of his policy) which was cancelled. Aviva says it 
should have asked Mr M to send documents to show he had a flight that date which was 
cancelled but it didnt ask. And documents it has about the correct date of his flight means it 
paid Mr M the £250 by mistake. 
Ive seen no documents which support that Mr M had a flight on 7 February 2020 which was 
cancelled. On the evidence I have Aviva paid Mr M £250 by mistake. Aviva has said it wont 
ask Mr M to repay the £250, which I think is reasonable.
Aviva fairly told Mr M that it will reconsider his claim for accommodation and living expenses 
if he provides documentary evidence that he had an original return flight for 7 February 2020 
which was cancelled by the airline. Mr M hasnt provided that evidence.
Service
Mr M says Aviva should have told him his claim was declined rather than giving him the 
stress and inconvenience of asking for documents to support his claim.
Avivas claim notes show Mr M originally told Aviva hed travelled to India on 22 February 
2020 and had been due to return in April 2020 but couldnt due to Covid-19 restrictions. If the 
22 February date had been correct potentially his claim would have been covered as the 
90 day policy limit wouldnt have been an issue. So when Mr M told Aviva his trip began on 22 February 2020 it was reasonable for Aviva to ask Mr M for documents to support his 
claim. Once Mr M had sent Aviva document showing his trip started 10 November 2019 
Aviva didnt delay in declining the claim.
Mr M also said he was placed on hold in a phone call to Aviva in April 2020. Aviva told Mr M 
it wasnt able to find that call on it systems and asked him for the number he dialled, the 
number he called from and the approximate date and time of the call to help it to find the call 
but Mr M didnt give that information. Ive no evidence that Mr M was placed on hold for an 
unreasonable time. Even if he had been, Aviva says in April 2020 it was experiencing an 
unprecedented demand on its service due to Covid-19 so unfortunately there may have 
been times when it wasnt able to handle calls as usual. I think thats reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Theres no basis for me to say Aviva should pay Mr M any compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman