DRN-2179229
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are upset by their insurers HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) handling of their 
claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
In May 2019, Mr and Mrs Fs shower enclosure shattered unexpectedly and damaged 
various sanitaryware and tiles in their bathroom. They contacted HDI who advised them to 
make a claim online, which they did.
HDI accepted the claim and it sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. He said that the 
damage could be repaired. But Mr and Mrs F felt that the damaged areas would need 
replacing. 
So, HDI then instructed specialist contractors to inspect the damage and they too said that it 
could be repaired. But said that until the repairs were done, they wouldnt be sure that the 
repairs would be successful.  Mr and Mrs F werent happy about this as they felt that the 
damaged items ought to be replaced. 
HDI said that it would only replace the shattered shower enclosure as it accepted that this 
was caused by accidental damage. HDI also said that it would reduce the policy excess by 
£100 due to incorrect information given to Mr and Mrs F in that, they had been previously 
advised that the claim in full would be covered. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with HDI and referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said that HDI hadnt applied the policy fairly. She 
said that the exclusion clause it had relied upon, was ambiguous. She concluded that 
although there was some poor service, it didnt cause inconvenience. But HDI should 
reconsider the claim. 
HDI didnt agree with our investigator. It said that it applied the policy fairly. The policy didnt 
allow for damage by way of scratches, dents or chips and this was the level of damage that 
had occurred. So, it could decline the claim. HDI asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision which said:
I note that HDI have made a few detailed points, which I have read and considered. I hope 
the fact that I dont respond in a similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As an 
informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
Mr and Mrs F and HDI accept that there was damage to the shower enclosure and I note 
that HDI has agreed to replace it. The crux of the issue is the level of damage and whether 
HDI has fairly applied the terms of the policy, to the claim. 
Damage
Mr and Mrs F describe the damage as a chipped floor tile, scratches to the shower tray and 
small chips/dents to the bath. I have looked at the surveyors report and it largely notes 
similar damage. But highlights that the shower tray is the area that appears to have 
sustained the most damage, that damage being mainly scratches. I note that in the report 
the surveyor has said that the damaged items were still in good working order and were 
suitable for repair. 
Policy
I have next looked at the terms of the policy and whether, HDI has fairly applied the policy to 
the claim. From what I have read, I think it has and Ill explain why.
Both parties accept that this was a one-off event that caused damage and that the insured 
peril came under the accidental damage term of the policy. This allows for: An unintentional 
and unexpected one-off incident that caused damage to your buildings or contents. HDI has 
accepted this part of the claim and offered to replace the shower enclosure. So, I think that 
HDI has been reasonable and has applied the policy fairly to the claim, regarding the 
replacement of the shower enclosure.
I can see that HDI has relied upon an exclusion clause of the policy. Having read its final 
response letter, I think that it has declined the claim relating to the damaged shower tray, 
bath dents and chipped tiles, on the basis that the damage was scratching, denting or 
chipping. I think HDI has applied the policy fairly as the entire term states:
Accidental damage to buildings: What we would not cover: Damage caused by or arising 
from structural movement, settlement, shrinkage, scratching, denting or chipping
So, I think the term shows that it relates to damage but excludes damage that amounts to 
either scratches, dents or chips. In this claim, the damage that has been outlined by both 
parties relates to just that. So, it is reasonable for HDI to have relied upon the exclusion 
clause when it declined this part of the claim. 
Poor customer service
HDI accepted that its customer service towards Mr and Mrs F fell well below its standards. It 
admitted that they were given incorrect advice that the policy would provide cover for the 
items that were damaged as a result of the event. For this, it offered £100 deduction of the 
policy excess. Given that HDI has recognised its shortcomings, I think that the offer to 
reduce the policy excess is a fair one and wouldve likely been awarded by this service, if 
HDI hadnt already made the offer. 
So overall, I am satisfied that HDI has been fair in applying the exclusion clause as the 
reason for the decline. It has also been fair when it agreed to replace the shattered shower 
enclosure and deduct the policy excess. So, I cant reasonably ask HDI to do anything more 
to resolve the complaint.Responses to my provisional decision
I have received no response from HDI, but Mr and Mrs Fs main responses were: 
Who are HDI?
Poor customer service as Mr and Mrs F believed that HDI changed its mind during 
the claim and they felt that the terms and conditions of the policy werent fairly 
applied. 
Inconvenience they suffered as a result of not being able to use their facilities fully.
Confirmation HDI will pay for the damaged shower cubicle.
I have reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. While Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs 
F, I havent changed my findings. My reasons for this will be explained below.
HDI were the insurers of Mr and Mrs Fs policy, which is why the complaint is made against 
them and not Swinton, the broker that sold Mr and Mrs F their policy. Complaints brought to 
the service about claims decisions are generally raised against the policy underwriter. 
HDI acknowledged that it gave incorrect information to Mr and Mrs F and offered to reduce 
the policy excess by £100. I have thought about the effect that the misinformation wouldve 
had on them and whether the offer was fair. The evidence shows that Mr and Mrs F were 
told relatively early on (about 11 days) into the claim that it would be partially declined. So, 
although I accept the disappointment this caused I think that HDI did act quickly to rectify the 
error. So, I think HDI acted reasonably in reducing the policy excess by £100.
I accept that given the nature of the damage caused, there would inevitably be a level of 
inconvenience. But I am satisfied that HDI acted as quickly as possible to inform Mr and Mrs 
F of its position. And I dont think it needs to pay any more compensation for this.
HDI have confirmed that it will cover the cost of the replacement shattered shower cubicle as 
it accepts that this was accidental damage, which is covered by the policy. And I direct HDI 
to do so, if Mr and Mrs F accept my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that HDIs offer to replace the shower cubicle is fair. And I require HDI 
Global Speciality SE:  
To supply and fit the shower cubicle that was damaged.
I make no further award against HDI.
HDI to reduce the policy excess by £100, if it hasnt already
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman