DRN-3738814
The complaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont reimburse him the money he lost 
when he fell victim to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr S holds an account with NatWest. In January 2020, he says he was contacted 
unexpectedly by a company saying it could invest his money for him. It offered a good return 
and said it had a moneyback guarantee so he couldnt lose anything.
Mr S says he initially sent only a small sum. The company called every day, and he 
appeared to be making returns on his investment. However, before long they stopped 
making contact. Despite Mr Ss best efforts he couldnt reach them. He assumed hed lost 
the money hed paid to that point.
But around a week later, Mr S was contacted by a new company (Ill refer to this as B). This 
company said it was actually the same firm hed previously sent money to. He was told it had 
relaunched under a new name following some problems and it apologised to him for the 
inconvenience. B told Mr S they were now part of a genuine FCA regulated firm. 
Mr S sent payments from his NatWest account to B via a wallet account held at a 
cryptocurrency exchange (which Ill refer to as C). Mr S then bought cryptocurrency and sent 
this to B. 
Initially, Mr S thought all was well. He was able to log on to a website that appeared to show 
he was making profits. But one day, he found he couldnt access the website. He was unable 
to contact B again or recover his money. In total hed sent £11,500 by this point, leaving him 
significantly out of pocket. Mr S reported the matter to NatWest as a scam.
NatWest didnt refund Mr S. It didnt dispute that he had been the victim of a scam but said 
that because the loss had occurred when Mr S sent the funds onward from the 
cryptocurrency exchange, it wasnt liable to reimburse him. NatWest was unable to recover 
any of the money hed lost.
Mr S didnt accept this and referred his complaint to this service for an impartial review. He 
thought NatWest hadnt done enough to protect him, and that it should have given him 
stronger warning messages about the risk of this type of scam.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt think NatWest had treated Mr S 
unfairly. The Investigator contacted C, the provider of the wallet account to which Mr S had 
initially sent his funds. C is a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. It confirmed the wallet 
account had been opened in Mr Ss own name, that it had been first set up in 2018, and that 
it had been used for several transactions during the two years prior to the disputed 
payments. The Investigator explained that because Mr S was transferring money from his 
NatWest account to an account held in his own name, the APP scam reimbursement code 
(the Contingent Reimbursement Model code or CRM Code) wouldnt apply. 
She also didnt think the payments Mr S was making stood out significantly enough from his 
normal transactions to the extent that shed have expected NatWest to intervene or take 
steps to warn him more than it had. So she didnt find NatWest at fault and didnt require it to 
refund his losses.
Mr S didnt accept this. He said someone else had received stronger warning messages 
from their own bank when theyd similarly tried to transfer money. Hed only been shown a 
general warning about scams. He thought NatWest ought to have done the same for him - 
and that if it had hed have stopped and taken a look into what B was doing, thus bringing 
the scam to light sooner. He disagreed with the investigator that the payments he was 
making shouldnt have looked unusual to NatWest.
As Mr S didnt accept our Investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to reach 
a final decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as those of the Investigator.
Im sorry to hear about what happened to Mr S. I can understand entirely why he feels his 
money should be returned to him. It was taken from him by scammers whod deceived him 
and seem to have had no genuine intent to properly invest it for him. I can appreciate why 
hed now like NatWest to refund him for what he lost, and why he wants the bank to take the 
blame.
Its important to acknowledge that Mr S was the victim of a crime here. Mr S has explained 
about the impact this has had on him. He was deceived by a scam that led him to believe he 
was investing his money and making significant profits. Hes been left out of pocket by a 
significant sum as a result of this scam.
However, the main cause of these losses were the scammers who deceived Mr S.  
For me to say NatWest is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank 
could and should have acted to prevent the eventual loss, or that it failed to meet its 
obligations in some other way.
Its worth mentioning at this point that a voluntary code exists to provide additional protection 
against APP scams (the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code  CRM Code). NatWest is 
a signatory to this code. But as the Investigator explained, it only applies to payments made 
directly to another person  payments made to a customers own accounts arent covered by 
the CRM Code. 
That matters because the accounts to which Mr S initially sent money from his NatWest 
account were wallet accounts registered in his own name at a cryptocurrency exchange. As 
a result, the CRM Code provisions arent relevant to Mr Ss complaint.
However, while I therefore find the CRM Code does not apply here, that Code is not the full extent of the relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. 
First of all, under the relevant regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and 
conditions, banks have an obligation to execute an authorised payment instruction without 
undue delay. As a consequence, the starting position is that liability for an authorised 
payment rests with the payer, even if they made that payment as the consequence of a fraud 
or scam - for example as part of an investment scam such as this was. 
However, where the customer made the payments as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though the customer authorised the transactions. I consider that a bank also has a duty 
to take reasonable steps to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams.
In particular, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice NatWest should have been 
looking out for payments or payment patterns that were significantly out of character or 
unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential for financial detriment to its 
customer through fraud or a scam. 
With all of the above in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether the available evidence 
demonstrates that NatWest did enough given the specific circumstances here.
The first payment Mr S sent as part of this scam from his NatWest account to his wallet with 
C was the payment of £1,000 on 25 April 2020. However, that wasnt the first payment hed 
made to C from NatWest. That appears to have been seven months earlier  three months 
before the scam started. The evidence provided by C appears to show that Mr S had been 
using the wallet with C for two years prior  I find that evidence persuasive.
So as a starting point, this was a payment to a payee to which Mr S had previously sent 
money. By the nature of the destination NatWest also knew this account must be one he 
held in his own name. At initial inspection I dont think there was anything here that would 
reasonably have prompted NatWest to have had concerns about where he was sending 
these payments.
Mr S argues that the pattern and size of the payments was uncharacteristic of his prior 
account usage. The largest payment he sent to C was for £8,000, so for a larger sum than 
other recent (legitimate) faster payments hed made  for which the highest had been 
£5,000.
Ultimately, the test I need to apply here is whether the evidence is such that I consider 
NatWest ought to have had significant concerns that these transactions could be indicative 
of possible financial harm through fraud or a scam  to the extent that this would have 
overcome its primary obligation to carry out Mr Ss payment instructions. 
And while Ive carefully considered the points Mr S has made, I dont consider these 
payments, including the £8,000 payment, were so significantly out of character or unusual 
that I could find NatWest at fault for not having taken further steps. Neither can I hold it liable 
for not providing Mr S with a stronger warning when there was no obligation on NatWest to 
do so for transactions of this nature. I say that because, while the payment of £8,000 was 
60% larger than the earlier legitimate payment hed made, the size of payment wasnt so 
much larger that in itself this factor should have been a cause for concern. Id expect the 
bank to take into account the other factors here, including that the payment was going to an 
account in Mr Ss own name and one to which hed previously sent money.
On balance, and taking everything into consideration, I do not find that there was enough 
here for me to say NatWest should have intervened rather than fulfil its primary obligation to carry out Mr Ss instructions. 
Further I am satisfied that when NatWest was made aware of the scam, it took the 
appropriate actions. This included its attempts to recover Mr Ss lost funds  however, theyd 
already been moved on from C to B in the course of the scam, and nothing remained with C 
to be recovered.
Overall, I dont find NatWest was at fault here. I cant fairly require NatWest to refund these 
payments.
In saying this, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about what happened to Mr S and 
I am sorry he has lost out. He was the victim of a crime and a cruel scam carefully designed 
to defraud him of his money. I appreciate that what hes lost here is a significant sum. But it 
is simply the case that I dont find NatWest was at fault in making these payments in line with 
the instructions he gave the bank at the time, and I dont find the bank liable to refund him for 
any other reason.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint National Westminster Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman