DRN-3451607
The complaint
Mrs H, represented by her financial adviser, complains that St Jamess Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJP) made errors which meant the Trust shed set up was void. She also 
complains that she never received a suitability letter for advice SJP gave in 2017.
What happened
Mrs H received advice from SJP in 2017. This decision doesnt deal with the suitability of this 
advice but rather the errors Mrs H identified. Mrs H was advised to invest into a St Jamess 
Place Loan Plan utilising a Trust. This was recommended for inheritance tax purposes. In 
2020, Mrs Hs current adviser asked for a copy of the recommendation and Trust. He found 
that Mrs Hs name and a beneficiarys name were spelled incorrectly. Mrs H complained as 
she was told this made the Trust null and void.
Mrs H also said shed never received a suitability letter for this advice, and she complained 
about that.
SJP apologised for the spelling errors when setting up Mrs Hs Trust. It said the error was 
possible to rectify without any issues to the Trust and set out how Mrs H could go about this. 
It offered Mrs H £125 compensation (offered as a total of £250 between two complainants) 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the error. SJP noted the complaint about the 
suitability letter but said that it was addressed correctly and its adviser recalls discussing it 
so it didnt think it had made an error here.
Our investigator felt SJPs offer was fair. He explained that the offer of compensation 
recognises the impact of the spelling errors, but he felt SJP had offered a clear way that the 
Trust could be corrected. The investigator also felt that it was likely the suitability letter was 
sent to Mrs H at the time.
Mrs H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. She said that the errors 
occurred because she was asked to sign a blank form which SJP completed later. She said 
that if shed not discovered this then it couldve impacted the Trust had she passed away. 
She explained that shed encashed her plan as she lost trust in SJP and asked for a refund 
of the early settlement fee. Mrs H also said that SJP hasnt provided proof of postage of the 
suitability form so theres no evidence to say it was sent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Spelling errors
Its not disputed that SJP made spelling mistakes when setting up Mr Hs Trust. Specifically, 
the trustees names were spelled incorrectly. SJP offered £125 compensation for this error 
and I think that offer is fair. Ill explain why.
Mrs H believed the Trust to be null and void, but I can see SJP told her representative how 
the Trust could be amended to ensure the names were spelled correctly. And, whilst I 
understand it is inconvenient to ask trustees and beneficiaries to agree amendments, I can 
see that it could be done by scanning in documents  allowing for this to be done regardless 
of where the beneficiaries and trustees are located. Im satisfied that SJP has done enough 
to tell Mrs H how the rectify the issue and has compensated for the inconvenience caused.
I do understand that it wouldve been a shock to find out that the names were spelled 
incorrectly. And Mrs H has said it couldve been very problematic if shed passed away 
without finding out the mistake. But its important to point out that this hasnt happened, and I 
wouldnt be asking SJP to pay compensation for something that could have happened. Im 
satisfied that the £125 compensation is fair and reasonable for the impact this error had on 
Mrs H.
Mrs H said she signed a blank Trust form and this was completed by SJP afterwards. SJP 
disputes this. I dont think its relevant here as SJP accepts it is responsible for the error and 
the compensation it has offered is fair and reasonable.
Suitability letter
Mrs H has also complained that she wasnt given a suitability letter for the advice. She says 
that SJP hasnt been able to show it posted the letter and so believes that this wasnt done. I 
dont think its surprising that SJP doesnt have proof of postage  its not something Id 
expect it to have as standard. But I can see that the letter was addressed correctly, and 
referred to the dates SJP gave the advice to Mrs H. Sending a suitability letter is common 
practice and Ive not seen enough to say that its more likely this wasnt sent to Mrs H. I cant 
hold SJP responsible if this letter was lost in transit or wasnt opened by Mrs H. So, I dont 
think SJP has done anything wrong in this regard. I think its likely the suitability letter was 
sent when it was produced.
I understand that Mrs H would now like her early settlement fee refunded, but as I think SJP 
has offered enough to compensate for the spelling errors, I wont be asking it to do anything 
more than this.
My final decision
The offer St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc made Mr H is fair and reasonable. It 
must now pay Mr H this offer of £125 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman