DRN-2724587
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd trading as Sterling Insurance services 
(Sterling) cancelled his insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M took out motor vehicle insurance with Sterling. A week later Sterling sent Mr M an 
email with an attached PDF asking for proof of his address as Sterling said there were 
discrepancies in the information provided. Mr M didnt respond to this email as he says it 
wasnt marked urgent and he didnt know he needed to provide any further documentation.
Mr M says he only became aware his insurance had been cancelled when he was stopped 
by the police and his car was impounded. He was subsequently charged with driving without 
insurance. This led to Mr M incurring significant expenses including having to pay 
approximately £400 in Compound Insurance for his car to be released from the compound.
Mr M says he accepts some responsibility but has incurred costs because of Stirling. He 
would like some of his fees back and for Stirling to cover some of the costs. He would also 
like a letter that explains that the situation is not his fault which he can show in court.
Sterling said they contacted Mr M in several ways, including by email and text message and 
they had a telephone conversation with him about the need to provide additional 
documentation about his address. As the information wasnt received, they cancelled his 
policy.
Our investigator said Sterling had let Mr M know about the need to provide more information 
and they hadnt done anything wrong by cancelling his insurance.
Mr M disagreed and requested his case be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and think Sterling have acted fairly and reasonably and Ill 
explain why.
Mr M took his insurance policy out, the annual premium was £526.09 and a policy set up fee 
of £50.00 was also charged. He received a text message from Sterling thanking him for 
buying the insurance and saying they would be in touch shortly. The following day Mr M 
received a second text message from Sterling which asked him to call them in the next 48 
hours to discuss his Insurance warning him it was in danger of being cancelled.
I have listened to a recording of Mr Ms call to Sterling on the same day and can hear he is 
asked to provide additional documentation as proof of address. During the call the call 
handler explained what was required and explained the information needed to be provided 
within a week, which Mr M acknowledged.
I can also see an email sent to Mr M also requesting this information be supplied. While I 
agree from their title it is not immediately apparent what the email is in relation to I have to 
balance this with the text messages Mr M received, which were clear, and which Mr M 
responded to by calling Sterling.
As explained over the phone, a week after Mr M first received a text message and email 
about needing to provide additional proof of address documentation he received 
correspondence from Sterling telling him his insurance policy had been cancelled. This 
correspondence also explained it is an offence to drive without insurance and if Mr M still 
had the car in his possession he should declare to the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency 
(DVLA) that his car is off the road via a Statutory Off Road Notice (SORN).
Sterling have explained that as they cancelled the insurance policy they did not take any 
further payments from Mr M. Mr M had paid a deposit of £86.41 for his policy. Sterling 
calculated his insurance payment on a pro rata basis for the nine days he had cover. They 
also applied a cancellation fee of £40.97. The retained policy set up fee was £50.00 however 
to ensure Mr M wasnt left with an outstanding balance Sterling reduced this to £45.49.
I think Sterling have acted fairly and consider the evidence indicates Sterling told Mr M he 
needed to supply additional documentation regarding his address and could have 
reasonably could have reasonably considered Mr M knew this after his phone call. I can also 
understand Mr M did not intend to drive without insurance and I appreciate my decision is 
likely to be disappointing to him.
However I agree with our investigator and think Sterling have acted fairly so I am not going 
to require them to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined above it is my final decision that Mr Ms complaint is not 
upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman