DRN-2455827
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premium 
they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
On 6 December 2019, Mr and Mrs A took out, and paid for, a single trip travel insurance 
policy - underwritten by Great Lakes (the policy). The policy was taken out to cover 
Mr and Mrs As holiday between 27 June and 4 July 2020.
The policy cost £107.61 for the standard level of travel insurance cover (including a discount 
of £20.24). It also covered Mr and Mrs A for the medical conditions theyd declared when 
taking out the policy.  
On 15 April 2020, Mr and Mrs As holiday was cancelled. On the same day they contacted 
the insurance broker, whod sold them the policy, with a view to cancel the policy. After Mr 
and Mrs A were told that Great Lakes wasnt able to offer a full monetary refund of the 
premium theyd paid for the policy, Mr and Mrs A made a complaint. 
Great Lakes offered Mr and Mrs A a pro rata voucher refund in the sum of £28.01 - valid for 
36 months - to be used against a future travel insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes. 
The pro rata refund was calculated from 16 April 2020 and took into account the number of 
days the policy provided cover for.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs A complained to our Service. Our investigator partially upheld their 
complaint. Although, he didnt think Great Lakes decision to offer them a pro-rata refund of 
the premium theyd paid by way of voucher was unfair in principle, he didnt think it had been 
calculated correctly. Our investigator concluded the voucher shouldve been calculated from 
15 April 2020, when the policy was cancelled, not 16 April 2020. As such, he said the value 
of the voucher offered by Great Lakes should be increased by 60p.
Great Lakes accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr and Mrs A thought the outcome was 
unfair. So, their complaint has now been passed to me look at everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  The Industry rules and guidance 
Our investigator has previously set out to the parties the relevant industry rules and 
guidance. But to summarise: 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules and guidance about a 
consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. Theyre contained in the 
Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says consumers have the right to cancel insurance contracts like the one 
Mr and Mrs A bought within 14 days of taking it out, without penalty and without 
giving any reason (the right to cancel). 
Under ICOBS, a firm may also provide longer or additional cancellation rights. So 
long as they are on terms which are no less favourable to the consumer (unless the 
differences are clearly explained). 
ICOBS 7.2.2 says if a consumer exercises the right to cancel, they may only be 
required to pay for the service actually provided as per the contract. This may 
include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk). 
ICOBS 7.2.4 says: In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys 
exposure that relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, 
where there is material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a 
more accurate method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an 
amount commensurate to the risk incurred. 
It isnt disputed that Mr and Mrs A didnt cancel their single trip travel insurance policy within 
14 days of the policy starting. And even if they had, under industry rules, they wouldnt have 
been entitled to a full refund of the premium paid. Thats because Great Lakes covered the 
risk of them cancelling their planned holiday for reasons that were covered under the policy 
during that time.
The terms and conditions of the policy
Mr and Mrs As policy sets out their right to terminate the policy:
 You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or 
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any 
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or 
have made, or intend to make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions. 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs As cancellation rights under the contract of insurance it had with 
Great Lakes are more favourable to them than is required by industry rules. But, even so, 
the policy was cancelled many months after it was taken out; long after the 14-day cooling 
off period, set out in the policy, had ended.
The policy says Great Lakes has the discretion to refund the premium to Mr and Mrs A if 
cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional circumstances. But I dont 
think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to exercise that discretion in the circumstances of 
this case to refund the premium Mr and Mrs A paid for the policy.
The examples of exceptional circumstances expressly mentioned in the policy are very much 
based on the policyholders individual circumstances - bereavement and/or a change in a 
policyholders medical conditions. So, Im not persuaded that the Covid-19 global pandemic 
amounts to exceptional circumstances akin to bereavement and/or a change in medical condition. And I dont think such a situation, which affected many of Great Lakes 
policyholders, is one which this term is intended to cover. 
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs A are entitled to any refund of premiums under the policy terms.
Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint
I know Mr and Mrs As need for this single trip insurance policy changed due to 
circumstances outside of their control; because their holiday had been cancelled as a result 
of Covid-19. So, Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes 
to depart from industry rules and the policy terms in the circumstances of this case  
particularly given the exceptional, extraordinary and unexpected circumstances surrounding 
the pandemic.
I know Mr and Mrs A say that Great Lakes shouldve offered a monetary refund. And that 
they regard the amount theyve been offered by way of a voucher to be an insult. But 
Covid-19  and its global impact - couldnt have been anticipated and foreseen. And whilst it 
was outside of the control of Mr and Mrs A, it was also outside of Great Lakes control. 
Im also conscious that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs As contract with 
Great Lakes to be performed  or for them to have benefitted from the policy. Thats 
because Mr and Mrs A werent just insured for the dates of travel. Cover started on 
6 December 2019. And, subject to the remaining terms of the policy, Im satisfied that the 
price Great Lakes charged Mr and Mrs A for the policy also covered them from the start of 
the policy should they have needed to cancel their holiday for any number of the insured 
events under the policy. For example, if one of them became ill before the trip started and 
they were unable to travel. 
So, Great Lakes had assumed the risk of Mr and Mrs A making such a claim from the date 
the policy started until the holiday was cancelled on 15 April 2020. And its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear the risk concerned  for 
however short amount of time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, Im not persuaded 
that its unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered up until 
the point the holiday was cancelled. 
But once the holiday was cancelled due to the pandemic, Great Lakes was no longer 
carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any of the other insured reasons set out in 
the policy, before the start of trip. And Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to 
Mr and Mrs As holiday being cancelled; the cost of the holiday was refunded by a third 
party. 
Also, just as importantly, as the holiday was no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was no 
longer carrying the risk of any claim being made while Mr and Mrs A were travelling abroad. 
So, in light of this, and based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding 
the Covid-19 pandemic, Im persuaded its fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide 
Mr and Mrs A with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for the policy from the date the 
holiday was cancelled; 15 April 2020.
When considering whether Great Lakes shouldve offered a pro-rata monetary refund of the 
premium or by way of voucher, Ive considered what would be fair and reasonable to both 
parties.
It was Mr and Mrs As decision to cancel the policy. I, of course, appreciate the reasons why 
they wanted to do so, but Mr and Mrs A had entered into a contract with Great Lakes. And 
theyd paid a premium in return for Great Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy during the period of cover. Offering a refund by way of a voucher 
means the risk Great Lakes had agreed to accept is simply moved to a future date.
If the vouchers restrictions and limitations are reasonable, Im satisfied  in the 
circumstances of this particular case - that it amounts to a fair and reasonable alternative to 
a monetary refund. 
Mr and Mrs A say  given their ages and health conditions  they dont anticipate going on 
holiday again. But that doesnt necessarily mean they wont. And theyve told our investigator 
that they couldnt definitely rule this out. So, its possible they could still make use of the 
voucher themselves. Further, I dont think the terms of the voucher are overly restrictive. The 
voucher which Great Lakes offered is valid for 36 months. Its also fully transferrable. So, if it 
isnt used by Mr and Mrs A, it can be used by someone else  if they chose to gift the 
voucher to a friend or family member, for example. The voucher can also be used to buy a 
single trip or annual, multi-trip, travel insurance policy. 
So, in the circumstances of this particular case, Im not persuaded that Great Lakes should 
pay a pro-rata monetary refund to Mr and Mrs A instead of a voucher.
The vouchers value
When calculating the policy premium Great Lakes doesnt distinguish between pre-travel 
cancellation and post-departure cover. Rather, the premium charged is split equally across 
the whole period of cover. 
As our investigator explained, an insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates 
policy premiums, considering factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment 
of the likelihood of claims arising and its own commercial interests. Thats if it treats each 
customer fairly when doing so.
Given Great Lakes explanation, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
prevalence of risk across the life of its annual multi-trip travel insurance policies. Im also 
persuaded that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr and Mrs A unfairly, or any differently, to other 
customers in similar circumstances by calculating the premium in this way.
The value of the voucher offered to Mr and Mrs A has been calculated considering their 
unused period of standard travel insurance cover. The policy covered Mr and Mrs A for 
around 212 days, from 6 December 2019 to 4 July 2020  and the premium they paid for the 
policy was representative of the time cover was in place for.
The value of the voucher (£28.01) Great Lakes has offered to Mr and Mrs A is equivalent to 
80 unused days of cover from 16 April 2020 (a day after the holiday was cancelled) until the 
intended end date of their holiday on 4 July 2020. 
But Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policy from the date their holiday 
was cancelled; 15 April 2020. So, Im satisfied Great Lakes should recalculate the value of 
Mr and Mrs As voucher from 15 April to 4 July 2020, as its already agreed to do.
Putting things right
Great Lakes should recalculate the value of Mr and Mrs As voucher from 15 April 2020, 
instead of 16 April 2020. And within 28 days from our Service confirming to Great Lakes that 
Mr and Mrs A accept this final decision, I direct Great Lakes to:
(i) Issue a voucher to Mr and Mrs A to the value of the recalculation; or (ii) Alternatively, if Great Lakes has already issued Mr and Mrs A a voucher to the value 
of £28.01, to issue them with a further voucher for the difference between the 
value of that voucher and the recalculated amount. 
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. And I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman