DRN-3805861
The complaint
A complaint is made on behalf of Mr C that HSBC UK Bank Plc arent providing him with the
service they ought to.
What happened
Mr C had a Power of Attorney (POA) document drawn up in 2004, using the rules in place at
the time. We have been provided with a copy of this, which includes, the procedure if and
when the POA needed to be registered. In 2004, the form of POA in place was known as an 
Enduring Power of Attorney (EPA) and there were specific requirements about what needed 
to happen for it to come into effect and for it to be used. Mr Cs POA also has a restriction to 
be met before it can be registered and used. 
In late 2021 Ms C contacted HSBC as she wanted HSBC to add her as having power of 
attorney on Mr Cs bank account using the POA document she provided. She also said Mr C 
was putting his financial affairs in order and she referred to him having mental impairment. 
There were some communications about this. Ms C represents Mr C in this complaint. Ms C 
complained HSBC wouldnt her use the POA to manage Mr Cs account with HSBC.
Ms Cs complaint to HSBC
In December 2021 Ms C complained online to HSBC that:
Over a decade ago he [Mr C] made me... Power of Attorney for his HSBC bank account.
Recently we were informed that HSBC changed their procedures (without informing him) and
the POA is no longer valid. In addition we are told.. [Mr C] and/or I must go to a branch
(despite the local one ... being closed down) [Mr C] cannot travel due to his complex
health needs and self-isolation due to covid-19.
She said HSBC knew Mr C has a severe mental impairment which she said was due to a 
tumour and his treatment. [It appears to be accepted Ms C relies on HSBC knowing this 
based on what she had told them]. She said:
HSBC are prohibiting [Mr C] from making me POA, and clearly disadvantaging him due
to his physical and mental disabilities. We are all now living in a digital age. It would be
appropriate for HSBC to have processes in place to register the POA electronically[this 
has] caused him stress and anxiety and he should not have to endure this - if I had POA and 
could speak to bank staff on his behalf. I would like HSBC to either provide a means of 
registering me as POA or offering a final statement and explanation of why they refuse to do 
so.
In January 2022 Ms C followed up the complaint and referred to Mr C trying to put his
financial affairs in order. His understanding and ability to focus, concentrate and remember
are all severally impaired.
HSBCs response
In February 2022 HSBC replied. They didnt uphold the complaint. They told Ms C that whilst
Mr C still had mental capacity the EPA didnt need to be registered. But once he loses
mental capacity, the EPA needed to be registered to provide Ms C with the authority to deal
with Mr Cs affairs. Overall they said Ms C had two options, she could either register the EPA 
or attend a branch so HSBC could get a better understanding of Mr Cs needs.
HSBC said that due to information Ms C had provided in emails on 31 December 2021 and
15 January 2022, HSBC felt they had grounds to understand Mr C might not be able to 
manage his affairs and might be considered to be losing mental capacity. 
HSBC understood an EPA needed to be registered when the donor (Mr C) starts to lose or 
has lost their mental capacity. HSBC said they werent in a position to conclude Mr C had 
lost mental capacity but seeing him in a branch might give them a better understanding of 
the situation. HSBC said that although Ms C might think he had sufficient mental capacity, 
from what she had told them they thought the situation would only get worse and they said 
they wanted to help to prepare for this.
The complaint made to this service
Ms C complained to this service on behalf of Mr C. Ms C thought HSBC were saying Mr Cs 
EPA was no longer valid because the government had changed the rules, and Ms C thought 
she and her father ought to have been informed by HSBC. 
Ms C said that it was unsatisfactory for Mr C to be required to give his authority on the phone 
each month for her to assist him. She thought it was unfair that HSBC had said that Mr C 
needed to attend a branch to register his EPA with them, when she had told them he wasnt 
able to do this. It is not accepted this is what HSBC said in response to the complaint. Ms C 
referred to a previous complaint against HSBC. 
Investigators view
An investigator at this service didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think HSBC had acted
unfairly, as they had accurately set out the rules on POAs, and had appropriately acted on
information provided by Ms C. The investigator concluded that because Ms C had told HSBC 
that Mr C had a severe mental impairment, this was why HSBC had suggested this meant 
the EPA now needed to be registered.
The investigator went on to conclude it wasnt unreasonable that HSBC had said that if Ms C 
was saying Mr C had full mental capacity and the EPA didnt need to be registered, then 
HSBC wanted Mr C to attend a branch so they could understand the situation better (based 
on what HSBC had been told by Ms C). The investigator understood Mr C might not be able 
to visit a branch and he suggested this was discussed further with HSBC. 
Ms Cs responses to the view
Ms C didnt agree with the investigator. She thought at this stage the main thrust of this 
complaint was around HSBC wanting Mr C to attend a branch, when she had explained he is 
unable to do so. Ms C said she accepted HSBC needed to confirm and understand Mr Cs 
circumstances but thinks this ought to be able to be achieved without him needing to attend 
a branch. Ms C went on to refer to the Equality Act and her feeling Mr C was being 
discriminated against and disadvantaged.
Ms C told us she thought HSBC ought to have told them in 2007 his EPA was no longeractive. She says she hasnt said that Mr C doesnt have the mental capacity, only that he 
has a severe mental impairment, as thats how his Doctor described it. Ms C said she 
couldnt understand why this service was allowing HSBC to refuse to rely on an EPA.
Investigators further thinking
The investigator didnt change his thinking. The POA cannot yet be used as it hasnt been 
registered. He didnt think it was unfair in the circumstances of this case that HSBC thought 
they now needed to be satisfied of Mr Cs condition and circumstances based on what Ms C 
had told them. 
The investigator appreciated what Ms C said about Mr C being unable to attend a branch 
and understood her thinking about HSBC staff not being in a position to determine Mr Cs 
needs. He suggested Mr Cs treating medical consultant could provide a report on Mr Cs 
capacity to satisfy HSBCs concerns. The investigator expected HSBC to act in accordance 
with the information in the report.
HSBC accepted the investigators proposal.
Ms Cs further response
Ms C wasnt satisfied with what the investigator said. She said there were numerous dated 
reviews from Medical Professional which could and would have been provided to HSBC had 
they been willing to make a reasonable adjustment and accept them.
Provisional decision
On 7 July 2022 I issued a provisional decision in this case. I summarised the position in 
respect of POAs. I identified the three areas raised in this complaint. I indicated I didnt 
intend to uphold any of the areas, and I provided my thinking. In general terms I didnt think 
HSBC had done anything unfair or unreasonable based on the information they had been 
provided with at the time. I also invited further information.
Response to my provisional decision
Ms C provided a significant quantity of further information (including medical records) and 
submissions. I dont intend to detail them but have considered everything. Ms C says the 
reason her father cant travel remains under investigation and she says his consultant and 
GP cant work out why. It was confirmed Mr C has received treatment and continues to 
experience the effects of his treatment. 
The information suggests the impact on Mr Cs cognitive abilities fluctuates but that at the 
time I was considering he was able to complete some activities and make decisions on his 
own behalf. He experienced some physical frailty and concerns around falling. At least some 
of these effects and/ or symptoms were likely to deteriorate. 
Ms C says she and Mr C received financial advice to make all their accounts joint, to ensure 
on death, the other will be able to continue to access and use the accounts. Ms C told us 
she originally asked HSBC to put her fathers account into joint names, with herself as the 
joint account holder. HSBC initially refused and a complaint was referred to this service. This 
appears to have happened in the summer of 2021. 
Ms C is unhappy that some businesses have acted differently to HSBC, in particular when it 
comes to accepting the POA (despite it not being registered). Ms C says it was because she wanted the account made into a joint account that she tried to 
get the POA in place. She went on to tell us she understands the time might not be right for 
this yet. She thinks more needs to be done to help instead of just telling her to take him to a 
branch and this ought to be a reasonable adjustment. Ms C notes this is time consuming and 
stressful for her and that the nearest branch of HSBC is too far for Mr C to travel to.
Second provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision on 12 October 2022 not because I had changed my 
thinking, but because a significant amount of further material had been provided.
HSBC accepted the decision.
Ms Cs response to the second provisional decision 
Ms C on behalf of her father did not accept the decision. Ms C doesnt think we have listened 
to her. She doesnt understand why I concluded HSBC wanted to progress matters. Ms C 
thinks my thinking is biased and unfair. She thinks there is a lack of sympathy and 
understanding for her position and that of Mr C.
Ms C thinks I ought to have concluded HSBC should have asked for the relevant information 
and they ought not to have been expected to know this ought to be provided. Ms C thinks I 
have failed to ask HSBC why they didnt use their internal policies for customers with 
disabilities.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my thinking from that set out before. I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
I would like to make it clear, the complaint I have considered about HSBC is the one referred 
to our service in February 2022. This is all I am able to consider in this decision. This is the 
complaint where it is said that HSBC were wrong not to tell Mr C the law in POA changed in 
2007. And that they were wrong not to register and accept the POA, and they were wrong to 
ask Ms C to either register the POA formally or alternatively Mr C needed to attend a branch.
We have explained previously that if there are any new concerns these will need to be 
referred to HSBC to consider first.
This service is an informal dispute resolution service, the contents of a decision and the 
weight and relevance which I attach to evidence are ultimately matters for me. I am grateful 
for all the information provided. I issued provisional decisions of some length which I hoped 
would be of assistance. I am not including everything I have detailed previously. 
I am sorry Ms C feels I have not sufficiently appreciated how difficult things are for Mr C and 
herself. Id like to assure them I have no doubt this is a difficult and worrying time. I have 
reflected on everything provided with care.
This complaint is based on what HSBC said and did (and knew) at the time of the events 
complained about and when they responded to the complaint in February 2022. I have 
considered whether HSBC were wrong, unfair, or unreasonable in what they said and did, at 
that time and based on the information they had, at that time. I dont think HSBC were wrong 
to decline to accept the POA, nor were they wrong not to have told Mr C the law on POAs had changed. Nor do I think HSBC made an unreasonable proposal in early 2022 based on 
what they had been told at the time.
My thinking
There are three parts to the complaint before me:
a. HSBC didnt tell Mr and Ms C in 2007 that the law had changed in respect of POAs.
b. HSBC ought to allow Ms C to act on her fathers behalf under the power of the EPA.
c. HSBC are wrong to request Mr C attends a branch for the reasons they provided.
HSBC have previously made arrangements by agreement, to enable Ms C to provide 
additional support to Mr C with his banking. I have seen reference to Mr C providing 
telephone authority for this. There is no suggestion this wasnt still available at the time and 
didnt continue to be available.  
Complaint a. and b.
HSBC didnt tell Mr C and Ms C in 2007 that the law had changed in respect of POAs and 
HSBC ought to allow Ms C to act on Mr Cs behalf under the power of the EPA
Mr Cs POA was drawn up in 2004, using the rules in place at the time. Mr Cs POA is an 
EPA. The law and procedure changed in 2007 when an EPA was replaced with the system 
known as the Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA). We have previously set out detailed 
information on POAs.
The rules in relation to EPAs require Ms C to register the EPA as soon as Mr C starts to lack 
mental capacity. Mr Cs EPA also includes a restriction that needs to be satisfied before the 
EPA can be used or relied on. There isnt anything that suggests this restriction has been 
satisfied. Nor has Mr Cs EPA been formally registered as it needs to be, to be used.
I dont consider HSBC were under a duty to inform Mr C when the procedure in respect of 
POAs changed in 2007. This change had no impact on Mr Cs relationship and banking with 
HSBC at the time. The decision to make a POA does not require the involvement of a bank. 
The EPA has never been registered and so HSBC would have been wrong to allow Ms C to 
act under the power of the EPA. 
More recently Ms C told us that the circumstances required for the EPA to be registered 
have not yet happened and she does not intend to register the EPA. This means she is 
saying Mr C is still capable of conducting his business affairs. 
It seems to me Ms C now appreciates she cant rely on an unregistered EPA to allow her to 
look after Mr Cs business affairs. And she no longer complains HSBC ought to have told her 
and Mr C in 2007 that the EPA system had been replaced. It doesnt seem to me Ms C is 
pursuing the first two complaints. I have included them however for completeness. 
I appreciate its said that other financial institutions have made different decisions about 
whether they think they can rely on the EPA, but that isnt sufficient to establish HSBC have 
done anything wrong. 
Complaint c: HSBC were wrong to request Mr C attends a branch 
The main thrust of Ms Cs initial complaint was that HSBC had told her and Mr C to attend a 
branch to register his POA with them. Mr Cs EPA cant be registered with HSBC, it would 
need to be officially registered with the Office of the Public Guardian following the required 
procedure.HSBCs online guidance in respect of the use of POAs, uses the same word register when 
it comes to HSBCs need to have a registered POA registered with them. This form of 
register takes place after a POA has been formally registered so that it can be used. I dont 
know if the use of this word created any misunderstanding between the parties. Part of 
HSBCs usual process in these circumstances is to invite a customer or attorney to either 
follow the procedure to register online or to attend a branch to register the POA. This is 
something that can be dealt with online (when there is a valid POA).
In the circumstances of this case HSBC say the information Ms C provided in late 2021 and 
early 2022 suggested the time had been reached where there was a duty to officially register 
the EPA. This was because they understood Ms C to have been saying Mr C didnt have 
mental capacity. I accept HSBC were told information which they reasonably understood to 
have raised this issue. 
Based on the information HSBC had been provided with I dont think HSBCs request for the 
EPA to be registered or for Mr C to attend a branch to allow staff to understand more about 
Mr Cs position was unreasonable. I say this because HSBC had been given enough 
information for them to have been concerned when it came to Mr C and his account. 
In the circumstances of this case, HSBC were asked to accept an unregistered POA by 
someone who was not the account holder. They were also given what might be considered 
somewhat inconsistent information about whether Mr C had mental capacity or not by this 
same person and limited information about why he would or could not attend a branch.
I previously indicated I thought HSBC found themselves in a difficult situation, having 
reasonably been caused concern about what they were being asked to do and about the 
mental capacity of their customer, and in circumstances where they lacked sufficient 
information to meet their concerns. As such I concluded it was reasonable to think HSBC 
were looking for a way to progress matters when they offered the choice between registering 
the EPA or for Mr C to attend for HSBC to understand his circumstances better.
Ms C wanted the draft POA she had provided, accepted by HSBC and was clear on her 
expectation of this. This was not a valid POA. Whilst Ms C had said Mr C was unable to 
attend a branch, no information (medical, expert or otherwise) was provided to explain this 
further or in such a way that HSBC ought reasonably to have been expected to accept what 
Ms C said without further enquiry. I dont think HSBC could have reasonably concluded they 
were meeting their duty of care to Mr C if they accepted a third partys word on this. This is 
particularly true where a third party is seeking to have control over an account.
I previously expressed the hope Mr C and Ms C could feel reassured HSBC had been 
concerned. HSBC has a duty of care to its customers and their accounts, not to allow a third 
party to control anothers account without appropriate checks. This is particularly important 
where a customer might be considered vulnerable as was the position here.
HSBC were no doubt additionally concerned as they had previously ensured Ms C could 
support her father with his banking in any event. So from their perspective, it would have 
appeared she was seeking additional control, with her or Mr C providing addition information 
about why that was wanted or necessary and when seeking to rely on an invalid POA.
I dont accept HSBC staff would have been in any position to reach a medical conclusion on 
Mr Cs mental capacity and status. But I dont conclude this is what was being fundamentally 
suggested. Ive looked with care at what HSBC said at the time:Currently we are not in position to say that Mr C has lost their mental capacity, but by 
seeing him in the branch we can have a better understanding of the situation. You may feel 
he has sufficient mental capacity but from the information you've provided it seems the 
situation could only get worse. All we want to do is help you put things in place, to be 
prepared. To summarise, you either need to visit a branch with Mr C so we can get a 
better understanding of his needs or register the EPA with the Office of the Public Guardian.
I accept this was a reasonable and sufficiently clear communication, made on the basis of 
what was known at the time. It suggests to me HSBC were reasonably trying to find a way 
forward.
Had Mr C or Ms C gone on to provide additional information, for example from a medical 
practitioner, to confirm Mr Cs physical limitations around being able to travel and confirming 
his capacity to conduct his own affairs, then things might have progressed differently. 
Depending on the contents and source of such information, it might not have been 
unreasonable to expect HSBC to explore other ways to accommodate Mr Cs needs and 
requests differently. This didnt happen at the time and so I cant speculate. However since 
HSBC told the investigator they accepted his proposal for further discussions and for a 
medical letter or report to explain more about why Mr C couldnt attend a branch, I tend to 
think HSBC were keen to progress matters to find a way to ensure Mr C was appropriately 
supported and his needs met.
Looking at what happened, I have reflected on whether HSBC ought to have directly asked 
for more information. I think it might have been prudent for them to have done so more 
effectively. Equally it might be considered somewhat surprising Ms C didnt offer it based on 
what she and Mr C were being told. I think HSBCs communications were sufficiently clear 
such as to make Ms C aware that HSBC were concerned about Mr C and whether he had 
capacity or not and that they wanted to understand in general terms what was going on with 
Mr C.
Previously Ms C told us she didnt have time to sort out additional information for HSBC; and 
I expressed my understanding of her position but indicated that ultimately that didnt mean it 
might not have been reasonable to have provided it or that HSBC would have been wrong to 
require it. 
My impression is that HSBC felt they had reached an impasse. Ms C had informed HSBC 
that Mr C had lost or was losing his mental capacity, and she wanted an unregistered EPA to 
be accepted. Ms C didnt suggest she intended to register it, nor that she intended to provide 
any medical information or explanation as to why he could not travel to a branch. Based on 
what I have seen, Ms C appears to have resisted initial explanations the draft POA was not 
valid to be relied upon.
Having reviewed the substantial quantity of further medical information now provided, I 
understand the position on Mr Cs health and mental and physical capacity better. This 
wasnt information HSBC had at the time. I have considered HSBCs response and 
communications in light of what they were told, not based on information that might have 
been provided. 
For completeness Ms C also referred to discrimination, the Equality Act, and reasonable 
adjustments. I dont think the original complaint considered by HSBC was considered on the 
basis of discrimination or a failure to make reasonable adjustments. That usually means I 
cant consider a complaint when the business hasnt had the opportunity to investigate a 
complaint. However the initial complaint made to HSBC online referred to the Equality Act 
and HSBC didnt object to my consideration.It wasnt clear to me if Ms C was making a general complaint about discrimination, or if she 
was saying the Equality Act and a protected characteristic under the Act had specific 
application to this complaint. I previously indicated I wasnt clear what reasonable 
adjustment(s) she thinks ought to have been provided.  I dont think HSBC ought to have 
reasonably understood that any reasonable adjustment had been requested.
I understand a little better that Ms C thinks Mr C was discriminated against, because HSBC 
ought to have added her as the power of attorney without requesting Mr C to attend at the 
branch. She thinks HSBC ought to have been able to do this electronically. Ms C considers 
this to be the reasonable adjustment she referred to.
As HSBC couldnt accept and register the EPA and could only register it on their systems, 
once it was officially registered with the Office of the Public Guardian, then it doesnt appear 
to me HSBC acted in a discriminatory or unreasonable or unfair way when they declined to 
register it or when they provided accurate information on POAs. Once the POA was officially 
registered, the POA could have been added electronically by HSBC
Nor do I accept the wider suggestion that HSBC ought not to have required Mr C to attend a 
branch and they ought to have made a reasonable adjustment, so he didnt need to. I dont 
accept this, as I dont think HSBCs proposal for Mr C to attend a branch was a general 
requirement for him to attend for banking services to continue. It was a proposal made as 
part of a proposal to deal with a specific situation that had arisen but had reached an 
impasse.
HSBC explained why the two emails (late 2021 and early 2022) from Ms C had caused them 
concern about Mr Cs mental capacity and thus why they had made the decision and request 
as they had. I accept HSBCs rationale for these and there is nothing that makes me think 
this was discriminatory, unreasonable, or unfair.
Its not our role to say whether a business has acted unlawfully or not, thats a matter for the 
Courts. Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to 
decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including relevant law 
and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So although its for 
the Courts to say whether or not HSBC has breached the Equality Act 2010, were required 
to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other things when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
HSBC didnt have sufficient information to be expected to understand why Mr C couldnt 
attend a branch or whether he ought not to be asked to attend one; nor whether they ought 
to offer to do anything differently based on anything they might be required to do under the 
Act. Ultimately here Ive decided this complaint based on whats fair and reasonable. If Mr C 
or Ms C wants a decision about whether HSBC has breached the Equality Act 2010, then 
theyd need to go to Court.
I hope Mr C and Ms C can feel some reassurance that HSBC were attempting to safeguard 
Mr C and his account. Not that they were suggesting Ms C was doing anything wrong or 
against Mr Cs wishes.
For completeness
Ms C told us this complaint arose after HSBC refused to convert her fathers account into a 
joint account in the summer of 2021. I have seen she has let us know this is the previous 
complaint against HSBC she has referred to and not the administrative complaint that I had 
noted. I can see there was a previous complaint made to this service in the summer of 2021. 
I have seen this complaint was settled and withdrawn. If Ms C has further concerns about this previous matter, they need to be raised with HSBC. That is not the complaint made here 
and referred to this service in early 2022. 
I accept Ms C feels her request in the summer of 2021 is part of the background here. I 
accept HSBC ought to have been aware Ms C had made this previous request. But this 
doesnt change my thinking on this case. Each case considered at this service turns on its 
own facts. I dont consider I have needed to look into the earlier request and what happened 
any further. I dont need to consider why Ms C wanted HSBC to allow her to use the POA, to 
determine whether they were wrong to decline to do so. I dont consider this earlier matter is 
relevant or determinative to what I have needed to decide.
My final decision
For the reasons given I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman