DRN-4191182
The complaint
Mr D complains about the price quoted by Hiscox Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox) to 
renew his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D received a quote to renew his policy for his classic car which he says was significantly 
higher than the previous year. So, he queried this with the broker, but they didnt provide an 
explanation. Mr D then complained to Hiscox and they responded and explained the renewal 
terms offered were correct. 
They explained a number of factors are taken into account such as inflation, claims 
experience and general market trends. They also explained that Mr D had, in previous years, 
benefited from a capped rate which was no longer available. Hiscox explained the renewal 
terms offered to Mr D were aligned with their underwriting strategy and pricing guidelines. 
They also said the terms offered were comparable with terms that would be offered to other 
customers in similar circumstances. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D. He thought Hiscox hadnt treated Mr D unfairly 
in relation to his renewal price. Mr D disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr D will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
I think its important to firstly make clear the role of various parties in insurance. I can see   
Mr D has raised a number of complaints, so I wish to clarify what Ive considered as part of 
this complaint. When taking out insurance, a customer will often communicate with an 
insurance intermediary  often a broker - who is responsible for arranging, selling and 
administering the policy. The insurer, which in this case is Hiscox, is responsible for setting 
the price of a policy  and its Mr Ds complaint about the renewal price that Ill be looking at 
here. I can see Mr D has raised additional complaints, but these would need to be against 
the broker.  
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr D paid a premium of £128.43 in 2021 but then received a quote for £445.70 in 
2022. This quote is over three times more than what Mr D paid the previous year  so I 
understand why Mr D is concerned. Hiscox have provided me with confidential business 
sensitive information to explain how Mr Ds price increase was calculated. Im afraid I cant 
share this with him because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im 
satisfied the price he was quoted has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no 
evidence that other Hiscox customers in Mr Ds position will have been charged a lower 
premium. 
As I've said, I cannot share all the information Mr D would likely want to see to understand 
why his premium increased as it did at renewal. I cant provide specific detail about Hiscoxs 
risk model, but Hiscox have demonstrated they took into account the performance of their 
book of business and changed their approach on how they rate their policies. Theyve also 
explained how the price was affected by removing a cap which was applied in previous 
years. Mr D may feel this is unfair, but Hiscox, like all insurers, will review their approach to 
risks at different points and this will result in changes to the premium. They have explained 
this was a change across all their policies as they changed their approach. So in short, they 
have treated all customers the same with the change and Mr D hasnt been treated 
differently or unfairly when they chose to change their approach. 
I do appreciate Mr D will want to know more detail around what specific factors have led to 
the premium increase and he was left frustrated at not receiving a response to his questions 
about this. Pricing is an area where the information which sits behind an insurers 
explanation will often be commercially sensitive. So, I dont think Hiscox have acted 
unreasonably in not providing more detailed information in response to the specific questions 
raised by Mr D.
Mr D has provided a news article which says that insurance premiums for classic cars has 
seen a lower increase when compared to other types of cars. I acknowledge Mr Ds concern 
here given that he received a quote over three times more than what he paid the previous 
year. But the article refers to general trends. And while I accept Mr D has every reason to 
question why his quote doesnt appear to have followed this trend, Hiscox are entitled to 
review their approach to risk and change the way they rate policies.   
I do acknowledge Mr Ds points about not being given sight of Hiscoxs pricing structure but, 
as Ive said, I cant provide the detail Mr D is looking for to explain why the premium has 
increased. But I hope it reassures Mr D to know that our service is independent and 
impartial, and Ive checked the relevant information here. And Im satisfied that Mr D hasnt 
been treated unfairly or differently to other customers in the same circumstances.  
I wish to reassure Mr D Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman