DRN-1472785
 
The complaint
Mr F complained about an instalment loan he took out with Evergreen Finance London 
Limited (trading as MoneyBoat). 
What happened 
In November 2016 Mr F took out a loan for £450, repayable over six months. 
Mr F mainly said that he was taking out payday loans to pay other loans and MoneyBoat 
shouldnt have provided him with a loan that was unaffordable.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr F and MoneyBoat told us about this loan. 
In summary, our adjudicator thought:
given the loan amount, what was apparent about Mr Fs circumstances at the time 
and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate to ask Mr F for the 
amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable
 
there wasnt anything in the information Mr F provided, or the information MoneyBoat 
shouldve been aware of, which meant that MoneyBoat shouldve taken steps to 
verify the information Mr F had declared
 
as this was the first loan Mr F had taken out, Mr F didn't have any track record with 
the lender that shouldve alerted MoneyBoat to any underlying money problems. 
 
Mr F disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. He told us hed been 
in a debt management plan and struggled to pay household bills and said it took him three 
years to repay this loan in full.  
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
MoneyBoat provided Mr F with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr F could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Fs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. 
Before lending to Mr F, MoneyBoat asked Mr F for information on his financial situation, such 
as his monthly income and his outgoings. It also asked about any other credit commitments 
and carried out credit checks. 
MoneyBoat said that as a result it agreed to lend Mr F a loan it worked out shouldve been 
affordable for him  he made other loan requests it didnt agree.
This was Mr Fs first (and only) loan with MoneyBoat. So I think MoneyBoat could potentially 
rely on the information Mr F provided. Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and 
the loan term, and taking into account all the information MoneyBoat had on record for Mr F, 
including what it appears Mr F told MoneyBoat about his monthly income and what he was 
paying out, this loan looked comfortably affordable for Mr F.  
Im sorry that Mr F had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan was difficult for him. 
I accept that in reality Mr Fs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in 
the information he provided, or the other information MoneyBoat obtained. 
But its reasonable to expect that MoneyBoat couldve only decided Mr Fs lending 
application based on the information it had available at the time. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for MoneyBoat to lend  especially as there wasnt anything 
obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr F wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required MoneyBoat to 
probe any more deeply into Mr Fs finances or ask Mr F to prove what he was declaring or 
check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his 
financial circumstances.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that MoneyBoat did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Mr F. 
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr F. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman