DRN-3135051
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Morses Club PLC (Morses) provided loans he couldnt afford to 
repay because he was in a debt cycle and these loans were unaffordable for him. 
What happened
Mr H took three loans from Morses between January and August 2019. A summary of his 
borrowing based on information provided to this Service by Morses can be found below; 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly repayment
1 £500.00 19/01/2019 07/08/2019 29 £25.00
2 £1,000.00 19/01/2019 07/08/2019 29 £50.00
3 £1,500.00 07/08/2019 outstanding 33 £75.00
Loans 1 and 2 were approved on the same day, so Mr Hs total weekly repayments he was 
due to make to Morses was £75 per week. 
Mr H has had some problems repaying his final loan. Based on the statement of account, up 
to July 2021 a balance of £380 remained due.  
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Hs complaint and she didnt uphold it. She said the 
checks Morses carried out were proportionate and she didnt think it had got to the point 
where Morses needed to verify the information Mr H had provided. Finally, she didnt think 
the lending history suggested these loans were unsustainable for Mr H. 
Morses appears to have agreed with our adjudicators opinion. 
Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators findings. In response he said;
No checks were carried before loan one was granted and therefore this contributed 
to his debt cycle. 
Loan 3 was for three times the amount of the first loan, this increase ought to have 
alerted Morses to the fact this loan was irresponsibly provided. 
At the point of each application Mr H was self-employed with no steady income and 
when taxes were paid, Mr H actually had more outgoings than income. 
Mr Hs credit file had a lot of adverse credit file data.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all mean for Mr Hs complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
Its worth noting that loans 1 and 2 werent provided by Morses. They were in fact provided 
by another company who is no longer trading. It is my understanding Morses purchased the 
loan book of the company and it has agreed to take responsibility for the sale of these loans. 
These loans were approved on the same day, and so as Morses has agreed to take on 
responsibility for these loans, it needed to satisfy itself that Mr H could afford the combined 
weekly repayment of £75. For 29 weeks. 
As part of the application process its likely that Mr H was asked about his income and 
expenditure. However, the information that Morses wouldve likely collected is not available 
due to Morses data cleansing. This means I cant be sure what information Mr H may or 
may not have declared at the time these loans were approved. But, we do know that when Mr H applied for a loan three, seven months later, he declared 
he had an income of £600 with outgoings of £375, leaving disposable income of £225. 
Which wouldve been enough to afford the weekly repayment he was committed to making. 
Ive looked at the bank statements Mr H has provided, and I would agree with Mr H that his 
income seems irregular. However, this pattern carries on throughout the time he was taking 
loans from Morses, so its likely, that the figures he provided for loans 1 and 2 may have 
been similar to what was declared in August 2019 when loan 3 was advanced. 
Even if it wasnt given the information Mr H declared in August 2019, I dont think its likely 
that he declared information to Morses that may have showed it that these loans were likely 
to be unaffordable for him. 
When this loan was approved Morses also carried out a credit search. Its provided this 
Service with a copy of the results and Ive considered this. But it is worth noting that Morses 
wasnt required by the regulations to do a credit search before granting the loans or indeed 
carry out a credit search to a specific standard. But what Morses had to do was carry out a 
proportionate check. 
Again, the results of the checks for around the time when the first loan was approved arent 
available. But I do have the information from a check carried out in July 2019. So, some of 
the information that wouldve been available to Morses in the January 2019 would still show 
on the credit file by the July 2019.  
Looking at the results, Morses wouldve been aware of a CCJ recorded, over two years 
before loans 1 and 2 were granted. Which may have been of a concern, but given it was 
recorded about two years prior, I dont think that wouldve alerted Morses of any current 
financial difficulties.  
And Morses was aware that Mr H didnt have any other defaulted or gone into arrears on any 
account within the last three years. Which wouldve indicated to Morses that he was likely 
not having current financial difficulties. 
The credit report results also told that Mr H had a total of five active accounts of which 4 had 
been opened within the last six months. This isnt a particularly high number and doesnt 
suggest that Mr H was reliant on other forms of high cost credit. I also dont think that the 
total balances on Mr Hs debt that Morses was aware of, wouldve prompted it to have done 
more. 
Overall, there wasnt anything in my view to have given Morses cause for concern. I also 
dont think there was enough negative information to have suggested that Morses should 
either decline the application or to have prompted it to carry out further checks. 
So, while I accept that what Mr H has told us about his total outgoings exceeded his monthly 
income this wasnt apparent in the information that Morses gathered (or was likely to have 
gathered) from him. And it is of course possible that had Morses carried out further checks, 
such as asking for evidence of Mr Hs outgoings it may have discovered he couldnt afford 
this loan. 
But as it was early on in the lending relationship, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate 
for Morses to have gathered the level of information needed to show it that these two loans 
were unaffordable. So, for Mr Hs first two loans I think Morses carried out proportionate 
checks which showed Mr H was likely to be able to afford the repayments he was committing 
to making.I also havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of 
any financial problems Mr H mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on the 
information it obtained and approve these loans. 
Loan 3
This was the largest capital loan to date, however because of the combined borrowing for 
loans 1 and 2, Mr H wasnt actually borrowing a larger total capital sum than hed previously 
taken. This is reflected by the fact that his weekly repayment remained the same at £75.
For this loan, we do have the income and expenditure information which Mr H declared to 
Morses. These amounts have been mentioned in relation to loan 1 and 2. So, Morses 
believed Mr H to have had £225 in order to meet his payment of £75. So, based on this 
information Morses wouldve thought the loan looked affordable for Mr H. 
It once again, carried out a credit check. The results from the August check show similar 
information to the one mentioned above that was carried out in July 2019. Morses was 
aware of the CCJ, at this point though it had been recorded nearly three years prior. And like 
at loan 1 and 2 there wasnt any indication of current financial difficulties, such as recent 
missed payments or recent defaults. Neither, was there any evidence in the report Morses 
received to suggest that Mr H had a recent history of rapid update of new lending from other 
high cost credit providers. 
Based on the information Mr H provided and the credit check results, Morses wouldve 
thought hed be able to afford the repayments he was committed to paying. 
The question here, is whether Morses needed to go further with the checks before this loan 
was granted. Ive weighted up the information Mr H gave, and what Morses found out in the 
credit search. 
This was in effect, only the second time a new lending decision was being taken, Mr H 
hadnt spent that long in time, relevant to the length of time of the product. He had come 
back for the same amount, and the loan looked affordable. 
Taking all of these factors together and for the same reasons as loan 1 and 2. I dont think 
Morses needed to do further, more in-depth checks such as verifying the information Mr H 
had provided. In my view, the checks for this loan were proportionate and reasonable. 
It is of course possible that had Mr H taken further loans, than Morses may have needed to 
have done further checks before granting any future loans. But at loan 3, I dont yet think it 
had reached the point whether Morses either needed to do further checks, or that the 
lending history in of itself showed it that the loan was now unsustainable for Mr H.
Im therefore not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by this 
outcome, but I hope my explanation has been useful in explaining why Ive reached the 
outcome that I have.  
Finally, Im, sorry to see that repaying this loan has proved difficult for Mr H but Id remind 
Morses of its obligation to treat Mr H fairly and with forbearance when working with him to 
repay the balance. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman