DRN-2334989
The complaint
Mr N has complained about the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc on a phone 
call and the decision made to close his account.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr N made a number of calls to Bank of Scotland to raise a dispute about 
calls being cut off, being called impolite and subsequently being accused of asking a staff 
member whether English was her first language.
After this set of calls, Bank of Scotland decided to close Mr Ns accounts and gave him 60 
days notice. As Mr N couldnt get his bank to change their mind, he brought his complaint to 
the ombudsman service.
Our investigator explained to Mr N we couldnt consider the issues around complaints 
handling as we had no jurisdiction to do so. She also told him as Bank of Scotland had given 
him the appropriate notice, she wouldnt be asking them to re-open his accounts.
Mr N has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint. He believed hed been 
discriminated against which he believed was a separate issue to complaining about how his 
complaint had been handled. By closing all of his accounts, Mr N could no longer make use 
of the closed help to buy ISA scheme. He also believed the letter confirming his accounts 
were to be closed was unclear about the accounts specified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Our investigator is correct we dont have the power to consider complaints when the main 
issue at stake is the complaints handling itself.  
However that doesnt stop me considering the issues Mr N raised about whether he was 
discriminated against. Ive listened to a call between Mr N and Bank of Scotland. Its clear 
that things soon start to go downhill. This isnt helped by Mr N taking time to talk and pause 
on occasion and the staff member having a tendency to interrupt. As someone who talks 
quickly myself and who often interrupts others, I can absolutely see what happened here. I 
appreciate what riled Mr N. However I dont think theres any evidence Mr N was treated 
unfairly.
Ive looked at the account closure aspects. In their final response of 11 December 2019, 
Bank of Scotland confirmed they were only closing Mr Ns current account and the letter 
specifically says Please note, the Help to Buy ISA ending 6164 and MasterCard ending 
0885 will remain open.
Banks are able to close customer accounts. As long as they provide the required notice, they 
dont need to give a specific reason. Our service can still consider whether a customer has 
been treated unfairly and Ive done that here. From what I can see of Bank of Scotlands 
customer notes, Mr N raised about 10 different complaints in 2019. Although I dont know for 
sure, its not a stretch to suggest Bank of Scotland decided they didnt want to retain Mr N as 
a customer because of this. The logic in similar cases is generally if someone is raising so 
many complaints, they possibly dont like being that banks customer much and the 
relationship has broken down. I cant see that Bank of Scotland has treated Mr N unfairly.
Mr N brought his complaint to our service about account closure in December 2019. This 
was well in advance of subsequent correspondence from Bank of Scotland about closing his 
help to buy ISA and credit card. Ive clarified this with Bank of Scotland. Its clear Mr Ns help 
to buy ISA and credit card remain open to date so I dont believe he has anything to 
complain about here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ns complaint against Bank 
of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman