DRN-3436793
The complaint
Mr Rs representative, his daughter Miss R, complains on his behalf about the service 
provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
In short, Miss R is unhappy about the handling of her fathers Smart Investor account.  
What happened
In August 2020, Miss R was appointed as a Financial Deputy for her father, by the Court of 
Protection. 
On 26 October 2020, Miss R visited a local branch of Barclays with a stamped copy of the 
Court of Protection Order (referred to as the court order), ID documents and details of Mr 
Rs Smart Investor account. In due course her new position was registered, or so she 
thought, and she received the passcode to access Mr Rs account. 
On 9 November 2020, Miss R discovered that she hadnt been granted online access. Also, 
upon discovering a significant drop in the value of the investment, she asked for the shares 
to be sold. Barclays asked Miss R to provide Mr Rs bank statement  which was with a 
third-party bank  because he didnt have an account with Barclays, which she duly 
provided. 
 
On 25 January 2021, Miss R chased Barclays as the funds still hadnt appeared in Mr Rs 
account. Miss R was told that Barclays hadnt received the bank statement she sent, even 
though it was returned to her, suggesting that what Barclays told her was incorrect. 
On 28 January 2021, Miss R was told that the bank statement had been rejected because it 
didnt match its records. Miss R made clear that the address should match as Barclays had 
already been informed of the court order. Barclays later admitted that it had made an error in 
setting up the order correctly. 
In due course Miss R complained to Barclays, but the acknowledgement was sent to Mr Rs 
old address, even though she had pointed out that the old address was empty.   
On 8 February 2021, Barclays confirmed that Mr Rs address had been updated, it also 
asked for a copy of the previous (rejected) bank statement to see if it was possible to get the 
accounts linked up.
 
On 23 March 2021, Miss R tried to withdraw the money from the Smart Investor account but 
was unsuccessful, even though she was told that the accounts had linked up and there was 
no reason for money not to be released. Barclays said Mr R would receive the money by 26 
March 2020.
In due course, Miss R referred the complaint to our service. I note the money was eventually 
paid into Mr Rs account on 31 March 2021. 
Theres been much correspondence between Miss R and the investigator. Below Ive set 
outlined a summary of this exchange. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
 
In short, Barclays accepts the following: 
oIt hasnt provided a level of service that it would wish to provide.
oIt failed to register/update the court order.  
oIt sent correspondence to Mr Rs old address. 
oIt failed to link Mr Rs bank account. 
oIt made errors in its correspondence  in particular, on 28 January 2021. 
Barclays offer to; refund the fees charged (including £2.58 it had retained) whilst 
Miss R was trying to close Mr Rs account; £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused; an additional £150 for the additional delays in releasing the (£691) funds; is 
broadly fair and reasonable.  
Whilst Miss R feels that the compensation should be increased to £500  with £150 
being paid directly to her in recognition of her experience  the investigator cant 
agree that a separate additional award should be paid to her.  
Whilst Miss R may have received £150 compensation from another business for the 
delays in setting up the court order, she is not a direct client of Barclays and 
therefore isnt entitled to any compensation. This complaint is made on behalf of her 
father. 
The compensation was all paid to Mr Rs account as it was a verified account. 
Our service isnt the regulator therefore it isnt for us to tell Barclays how to run its 
business and who it should pay the compensation to.   
In this instance the offer made by Barclays is fair and reasonable. 
Miss R disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, she said:
Barclays made its opening offer in August 2021, some four and a half months after 
she approached our service for assistance. 
Although she was told her complaint could take around four months to reach an 
investigator, the fact that she didnt hear back until after seven and a half months 
suggests that our service has intentionally allowed Barclays to play its hand and 
make a £350 offer, which has subsequently influenced our position to accept this as 
reasonable. 
She doesnt deem it a coincidence that Barclays made the offer a week after she 
threatened court action. 
Shes not asking for separate compensation relating to her phone conversation with 
Barclays (on 28 January 2021) but much more broadly. None of the issues wouldve 
been raised in this complaint without her involvement in the case. And had her father 
not had a stroke resulting in brain damage, thered be no need for her to be set up on 
the account. 
The compensation offered was based on the status of the complaint as of March 
2021. But Barclays didnt respond within eight weeks, it provided her with referral 
rights, so, the amount of compensation should be higher. 
She cant be sure that the investigator has considered all her points. 
Its the first shes heard of why the money was paid into her fathers account. 
Barclays used ambiguous language suggesting that the compensation was for her 
inconvenience but didnt make clear who it was for. Barclays is duty bound to be 
open and transparent but wasnt in this case.  
Our service and Barclays are happy to gloss over the fact that it took Barclays over six months to respond to her complaint. Although Barclays mentions the pandemic, 
most companies had already adapted their processes. Barclays using this as an 
excuse shows just how it regards its customers. 
The investigator referred to Mr R accepting/rejecting the decision knowing full well 
that he cant answer for himself. This comment is redundant and hurtful. 
As a lay deputy, she does the job because she must, in order to try and do the best 
for her father who isnt capable of managing his own financial affairs. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
Miss Rs role as lay deputy isnt an easy one, and shes aware that Miss Rs faced 
many challenges in dealing with Mr Rs complaint. 
Our service isnt the regulator therefore we dont have the power to punish a 
business. 
If a business cant investigate a complaint within eight weeks, the complaint can be 
referred to our service without a final response. Thats why she was given referral 
rights. 
Our service has received around 60,000 more complaints than we envisaged, and 
this has overall meant complaints are taking longer to allocate and deal with. 
Were only able to consider this complaint from Miss R because its made on behalf 
of her father.   
In this instance the complaint was listed in Mr Rs name  even though he cant 
provide instructions  and thats why the investigator referred to Mr R, and why 
letters refer to his right rather than anyone elses. Shes sorry if this has caused 
Miss R upset. 
Its not in dispute that Barclays made numerous errors, including, but not limited to, 
the phone call on 28 January 2021. 
Normally, shed expect a business to pay interest from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement, less any tax. However, in this case the interest payment wouldve 
been minimal and is more likely (than not) covered by the additional £150 paid.
Miss R makes a valid point about Barclays not making clear who the compensation 
payment was for. But despite what Miss R says, the investigator is unable to say that 
Barclays should pay compensation to her. 
Miss R feels that the issues regarding the delays still havent been considered properly. 
Apart from the letters, sent from Barclays once a month, to say that Barclays was still 
considering the complaint, it failed to acknowledge the excessive delays. Shes not 
persuaded that Barclays has taken account of her points.  
Despite what the investigator says, shes not satisfied that the oldest cases are being dealt 
with first. In this instance shes still minded thinking that our service waited to see if Barclays 
would make an offer after the complaint was referred to our service. 
Whilst the investigator mentioned our service receiving a lot more complaints, the complaints 
that shes seen dont mention the amount of time it has taken for the business to respond. 
The above notwithstanding, she still feels that Barclays shouldve been clearer as to who 
should benefit from the compensation. She also feels that she should receive something for 
the disproportionate amount of time trying to resolve this complaint. 
Shes open for Barclays to pay additional compensation into her fathers account on the 
basis that Barclays make clear who the money is for.  As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
Theres no dispute that Barclays made several errors in relation to Mr Rs Smart Investor 
account, as set out above. But because Barclays has upheld the complaint the key issue for 
me to consider is redress and whether its fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite what Miss R says, I think the £350 
compensation paid by Barclays, along with a refund of the fees paid since November 2020, 
is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Im upholding this complaint because the higher offer was made after the complaint was 
referred to our service. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Miss Rs strength of feeling about this matter. She has, on behalf of her father, 
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Miss R and Barclays, and reach what I think is 
an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I should make clear from the outset that whilst Ive no doubt that Miss R has been caused 
distress and inconvenience by this whole process, and Im under no illusion as to how 
important her role is in helping to sort out her fathers financial affairs, Ive still no power to 
ask Barclays to pay Miss R compensation. 
As a Financial Deputy and representative of her fathers complaint, Im unable to ask the 
business to pay Miss R any compensation. Even if she had her own account with Barclays 
for example, as representative of her fathers complaint shes not acting in a personal 
capacity, and therefore isnt entitled, so far as our service is concerned, to any 
compensation.
The rules set out in the Handbook of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, 
state that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant or a deceased 
person who would have been an eligible complainant. The former is the basis on which Miss 
R, as representative, has brought this complaint. 
I appreciate Miss R says that without her this complaint wouldnt be made, which I accept. 
However, that doesnt make her an eligible complainant in her own right, regardless of her status as Financial Deputy/representative. Therefore, she isnt personally entitled to an 
award for distress and inconvenience. 
Having said that, whilst I cant award Miss R anything for distress and inconvenience a 
business can choose to make such an award to a representative  although doesnt have to 
do so. Based on what the business says, it seems that it has taken note of Miss Rs 
inconvenience, in the payment to Mr R, its client, and this is partly why it increased the 
payment from £200 to £350. I note that Barclays also maintains that £350 compensation in 
respect of an investment worth £691 is generous.  
In conclusion, for the reasons set out above, despite what Miss R says, I cant ask Barclays 
to pay her £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused and I think the £350 
compensation paid to Mr R is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I apologise for the time it has taken to deal with Mr Rs complaint. But as the investigator 
explained, weve received a substantially higher number of complaints than expected and 
this has affected our decision queue. Our service hasnt deliberately waited for Barclays to 
make an offer so that we can just conclude that the offer is reasonable. 
Resolving complaints is a dynamic process, and sometimes because of additional enquires 
or entrenched views, some older and more complex complaints can take longer to resolve. 
But this isnt of itself as reason why Barclays should pay Mr R any more compensation, or a 
separate sum to Miss R directly. 
I appreciate that Miss R will be unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator and that I havent given her what she wants. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, 
Im not persuaded to require Barclays to do anything other than pay Mr R £350 
compensation. 
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr R £350 compensation, plus refund all fees paid since 
November 2020, unless it has already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman