DRN-4083904
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK declined his request to increase his credit limit. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for 
these reasons: 
Santander have explained that all lending is subject to status, regular account 
reviews, affordability, information they receive from credit reference agencies, along 
with a multitude of other factors. 
At the time of application, an automatic limit increase wasnt available. Because of 
this, an appeal was raised for Santanders underwriters to review, however that 
wasnt successful either.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs credit card account state We may not offer you 
an increased Credit Limit if we have concerns about the risk of you not repaying us. 
A higher Credit Limit may offer greater flexibility and convenience to meet your 
financial needs. However, it may also increase the risk of taking on too much debt, 
which may be costly, or take a long time to pay off. You should carefully consider 
whether you need a higher limit. 
These terms were accepted when Mr B took out the card. 
Mr B said he has more than enough to repay what he borrows as his outgoings are 
less than his income and he pays the outstanding amount each month. He also said 
he doesnt have any loans or outstanding debt and that he also holds savings.
 While this may be the case, and while I understand Mr Bs frustration, declining a 
credit increase application is a business decision and isnt something we can ask 
Santander to change. They havent provided a specific reason for the decline, and 
they dont have to. 
Mr B is also unhappy as Santander have contacted him, asking if he would like to do 
a balance transfer from another card onto the one he would like an increase on. 
While I understand Mr Bs annoyance at this, transferring an outstanding debt from 
another card doesnt increase the overall debt, as he would still owe the same 
amount in total. However, increasing his limit would add to the overall amount owed. 
I do understand Mr Bs frustrations around not being a reason for the decline, 
especially with what hes said about his financial status. But overall, Santander have 
acted in line with the terms of the account and so I cant say they have done anything 
wrong in declining his request for a credit limit increase. 
While I know this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for, I hope I have clearly 
explained my reasoning on why Im not able to ask Santander to increase his credit 
limit. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman