DRN-3853655
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly declined to cover their legal 
expenses insurance (LEI) claim. 
Any reference to Amtrust includes the actions and comments of its agents. Because the 
legal claim concerns Mr N, Ive referred to him throughout my decision.
 
What happened
The events of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised whats 
happened. 
Mr N has a LEI policy which is underwritten by Amtrust. In 2019, Mr N submitted a 
claim to Amtrust for legal expenses cover to pursue an employment discrimination 
case. Hed already appointed his own solicitor  who Ill refer to as Y. 
Amtrust informed Mr N and Y that prior to it being necessary to start court 
proceedings there was only cover for costs incurred by one of its approved solicitors. 
It added that the policy would only cover Ys fees at the point of issuing proceedings. 
Amtrust explained that for it to consider whether to accept the claim and appoint Y it 
would need to undertake a legal assessment of the claim to determine if it had 
prospects of success and was proportionate to pursue. It said the assessment would 
be completed by an independent specialist barrister instructed by its panel firm of 
solicitors. 
Amtrust says it next heard from Mr N and Y in June 2021. It asked Y if it had 
obtained a counsels opinion on the prospects of success and proportionality. Y said 
Mr N had received an offer to settle out of court, so Counsels opinion wasnt 
required.
Amtrust obtained its own counsels opinion which said Mr Ns legal claim didnt enjoy 
prospects of success. On this advice, Amtrust said it couldnt cover Mr Ns legal 
costs.
Counsels opinion was shared with Y and it was advised it could challenge the 
assessment by providing new information for the barrister to review, or it could 
provide a legal challenge from a suitably qualified barrister. 
In February 2022, Mr N said Y had said the claim enjoyed 80% prospects of success 
and that this had been proven by the respondent settling out of court. Mr N wanted 
to know why it had to be a barristers opinion and said he couldnt afford to pay for 
one.
In its final response, Amtrust explained it needed a counsels opinion as Mr Ns 
solicitors assessment of prospects differed from the counsel opinion it had obtained. 
Unhappy, Mr N brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it and 
said Amtrust had treated him fairly, so he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Because Mr N disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The issue is whether it was reasonable for Amtrust to decline Mr Ns claim. The 
starting point in determining this is the policy document which explains that a 
condition of the policy, amongst other things, is that there must be more than a 50% 
chance of winning the case and achieving a positive outcome.  
Because Amtrust isnt a legal expert, a prospects of success assessment should be 
completed by a qualified lawyer with the legal knowledge and expertise to advise on 
whether the case is likely to succeed in court. 
Here, Amtrust arranged for an independent barrister  who is suitably qualified to 
advise on the legal matter - to provide a legal assessment as to whether the legal 
claim enjoyed prospects of success. Ive read the legal opinion which confirms the 
barrister considered Mr Ns claim to have less than 50% chance of success.
Following this, Amtrust wrote to Mr N explaining what he could do should he disagree 
with the barristers opinion  which is what Id expect it to do. Mr N hasnt done this.
In the absence of a counsel opinion confirming prospects of greater than 50% 
success, I consider it reasonable for Amtrust to rely on the barristers opinion it 
obtained to decline cover.
I understand Mr N considers the fact his claim was settled out of court to be evidence 
of it having greater than 50% chance of success, but Im not persuaded by this. I say 
this because claims can and do settle out of court for other reasons  including to 
avoid litigation which is costly for both sides. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr N, but I hope he understands for the reasons 
above why Im not upholding it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2023. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman