DRN-3434374
The complaint
Mr C says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, irresponsibly lent to 
him.
What happened
This complaint is about an 18-month instalment loan for £3,000 that ELL provided to
Mr C on 26 June 2018. The monthly repayments were £256.64 and the total repayable was
£4,619.52.
Mr C says the loan was unaffordable and he got into further debt and suffered financial 
hardship as a result.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Cs complaint and thought ELL shouldnt have given the
loan. ELL didnt respond to the assessment, and so the complaint was passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Cs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would be 
able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required ELL to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr C. In practice this meant that
business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr C undue
difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
ELL has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr C. It asked for his monthly income, his employment status and his residential status.
It reviewed copies of recent bank statements to verify his salary and to understand the 
extent of his payday loan use. It used national statistics to estimate his living expenses. It 
carried out a credit check to understand his credit history and his existing credit 
commitments. It asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. Based 
on these checks ELL thought it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont think the lender made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
Mr C applied for this loan to break his reliance on payday loans. He planned to repay 10 
loans at a cost of £2,893.91 which would leave him with just one outstanding payday loan. 
He would still have other credit card and loan debt, as well as an overdraft. ELL calculated 
this meant he would be left with monthly credit commitments of £399.42. I think was slightly 
understated as it assumed only a minimum monthly repayment of 3% on his credit card, 
rather than allowing for a sustainable repayment of 5%. It also did not allow for any 
repayment of his overdraft facility which was over its limit at the time. 
But that aside, by giving this loan, even after settling the 10 payday loans, ELL was placing 
Mr C in the position where he would need to spend over 40% of his monthly income on 
servicing his debt. At this level I think it ought to have realised there was a risk Mr C would 
not be able to repay this loan without suffering adverse financial consequences. And to meet 
its regulatory obligations it needed to consider this, not just the pounds and pence 
affordability. 
ELL could see from Mr Cs bank statements that he was persistently reliant on his £3,000 
overdraft facility. This loan was not being used to repay that and so ELL was aware Mr C 
would most likely be using that debt to make its loan repayments. Whilst I acknowledge Mr C was trying to break the payday loan cycle he had become 
trapped in, I am not persuaded his broader financial situation allowed him to take on this 
loan without there being a significant risk of him being unable to sustainably repay it. And 
ELL ought to have realised this from the checks it carried out. Indeed, I can see from ELLs 
contact notes that Mr C asked about a top-up loan just a few months later explaining he was 
still stuck in a payday loan cycle. 
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give this loan to Mr C and ELL needs to put things right.
Ive also thought about whether ELL acted unfairly in some other way and I havent
seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the capital amount that he borrowed,
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should not
have been provided to him so ELL needs to put that right.
It should:
refund all interest and charges Mr C paid on the loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Cs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr C a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Cs complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman