DRN-3384344
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as P has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly turned 
down a claim on its business interruption insurance policy. 
Mr C, a director or P, has brought the complaint on Ps behalf. P is also represented in this 
complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as being those of P. 
What happened
P held a business interruption insurance policy with AXA. P claimed on its policy after its
business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic.
AXA turned down Ps claim as it said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. They
added that while the policy covered a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of the
illnesses covered.
Unhappy with AXAs response, P brought its complaint to us. It thought its claim should be
covered under different sections of the policy.
Damage
P said the core business interruption section of the policy covers damage and that the
definition of damage is wide enough to cover a loss of property even where there hasnt
been physical damage. P referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance
Company (2020) to support its view that the policy should cover losses flowing from the
interruption of its business due to Covid-19. 
P said that Covid-19 wasnt excluded by the policy and that where the policy is ambiguous it 
should be read in the favour of the insured
Denial of access
P said the Regulations put in place to prevent the spread of Covid-19 resulted in a denial of 
access and amounted to damage as they caused loss of use.
Specified disease
P said the list of illnesses set out in this extension of the policy arent an exhaustive list and
theres nothing in the policy to say that new illnesses cant be added. P said the list of
illnesses are very similar to the Governments list of Notifiable Diseases and therefore its
reasonable to conclude that Covid-19 should be added. P said that as there had been cases 
of Covid-19 within one mile of its premises, this extension should cover its claim.
Sanitary arrangements
P said the actions taken in closing the business were due to a defect in sanitary 
arrangements because it wasnt safe for people in be in close proximity to each other.  
Other factors
P also said that it had expected to be covered following a statement made by the
Government towards the start of the pandemic and had a reasonable expectation that its
policy would provide cover in these circumstances.
Initial investigation
Our investigator looked into Ps claim but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt think
the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It referred to the judges comments in 
Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & AXA Insurance 
Designated Activity Company [2021] IEHC 263 (Brushfield) in support of why its claim 
should be covered under the clause regarding sanitary arrangements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
P has made a number of detailed points. Im not going to address them all but will instead
focus on what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ps business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AXA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ps claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of the policy says:
If any property used by you at your premises for the purpose of the business suffers 
damage During the period of insurance, and as a result your business is interrupted or 
interfered with then we will pay you for loss of profit by paying
The policy defines damage as:
Accidental loss or destruction or damage caused by
1 an insured Cause under the Buildings or Contents section
2 damage to fixed glass or damage to the shop front where shown as covered in 
your schedule.
Therefore, for cover to apply under the core business interruption section, Ps business 
interruption would need to be as a result of accidental loss, destruction or damage to property used by P at its business premises. I dont think this would provide cover for Ps 
claim, because I dont think the business interruption was as a result of damage.
P has referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020). 
However, I understand this has been overturned by the Court of Appeal. Ive considered this,
but Ive also considered other cases which I think are more relevant to Ps claim, including
TKC London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British
Nuclear Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development
Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 348.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to Ps property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible damage 
could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the cause of 
potential damage.
Its possible that SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) was present in Ps premises. 
However, the Governments guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings1 doesnt 
recommend any cleaning by a specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive amount of 
SARS-CoV-2 on Ps property. And the presence of any particular virus doesnt automatically 
amount to damage.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy would be considered ambiguous and 
I dont think it matters that Covid-19 isnt excluded as there isnt a clause in the policy that 
provides cover. 
Denial of access
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. This extension covers 
interruption or interference with Ps business as a result of damage to property within a one 
mile radius of its premises which prevents or hinders the use of or access to Ps premises.
While access to Ps premises might have been prevented or hindered, I dont think this was 
due to damage to property within one mile of its premises for the reasons set out above. So 
this extension doesnt provide cover.
Specified disease
This extension covers interruption or interference with Ps business due to any of the 
following specified human infectious or human contagious diseases suffered by any person 
at your premises or within a one mile radius of it. The policy goes on to specify a list of 
covered diseases which doesnt include Covid-19.
As Covid-19 isnt in that list, its not covered by the policy. When reaching this finding Im 
mindful that Covid-19 wasnt something AXA might have known about when the policy was 
drafted. However, there were policies that provided cover for all notifiable diseases. While I 
accept that the list in Ps policy reflects some of the Governments list of notifiable diseases, 
many other notifiable diseases also arent included. Ps policy does not say that it covers 
notifiable diseases and instead sets out a specified list of diseases which are covered by the 
policy.
While there is nothing in the extension that specifically says any new diseases are excluded,
there is also nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for diseases not 
included, including any new diseases which emerge. I dont think this extension can fairly be
read to cover any and all diseases, so even if there were cases of Covid-19 within one mile
of Ps premises, this doesnt cover its claim.Sanitary arrangements
The extension for specified disease also covers business interruption or interference 
following:
the closing of the whole or part of your premises by order of a competent public 
authority as a result of a defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at 
your premises.
P said that there was defective sanitation at its premises because safe social distancing 
could not be maintained and, as a result, regulations were imposed on Ps business. I 
therefore consider a key question here is whether or not an inability to enforce social 
distancing could be said to qualify as a defect in the sanitary arrangements at Ps premises. 
To reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, the case of 
Brushfield given that P has specifically referred to it. This case took place in the Irish courts, 
so as Ps representative says this is not binding on English courts. However, I dont think the 
judges comments in Brushfield mean that Ps claim should be paid.
I understand that P considers that an inability to maintain social distancing is a sanitary 
defect in its premises. The judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently 
involves some element of deficiency or fault. No evidence has been provided to suggest 
there was any deficiency or fault in Ps sanitary arrangements. Im not persuaded that the 
normal operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a defect specific to 
Ps premises which led to its closure. 
P said that the public order to close was to specifically limit the spread of disease and virus 
at Ps premises and these circumstances are covered by the term other sanitary 
arrangements. However, I havent been provided with any evidence to suggest it was the 
circumstances at Ps premises in particular that led to the Governments decision to 
introduce the restrictions it did. For these reasons, I consider AXAs decision to not to meet 
Ps claim under this subclause was fair and reasonable.
Other factors
Although P might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood
the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Ps policy provides cover
for its claim.
I understand this isnt the outcome P was hoping for but, having considered the matter very
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AXA to pay Ps claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman