DRN-2353718
The complaint
This complaint is about a Jasper-branded buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Mrs L holds with Topaz 
Finance Limited. Shes unhappy that Jasper appointed Law of Property Act (LPA) Receivers 
to manager her BTL property instead of agreeing a plan for her to repay arrears.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding some of the figures involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention 
something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn. Another reason I have left 
out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my decision is 
published.
The circumstances of this complaint, briefly, are that Mrs Ls mortgage started in 2007; the 
original amount borrowed was £425,000. She had some early arrears, and for a time was 
paying extra each month by arrangement to reduce them. In 2010, the arrears (around 
£16,000) were capitalised; that is, merged into the overall mortgage balance to be repaid 
over the remaining term.
In early 2019, Mrs L again fell into arrears. Her rental income had been disrupted due to a 
dispute with her local authority over structural changes shed made to the property to 
increase the number of potential tenants. As the arrears grew, Mrs L had various 
conversations with Jasper, one of which was to agree a reduced payment concession for 
October 2019. Before Jasper could agree anything further, it told Mrs L it needed evidence 
of a mediation exercise she had told it she was due to participate in to try and resolve the 
dispute with the local authority.
Mrs L wrote a letter to say the mediation was due to take place, but Jasper didnt consider 
this to be sufficient corroboration, as it had come from Mrs L herself. It decided to appoint 
LPA Receivers to take over and manage the BTL property. Mrs L found this out in a call 
during which she told Jasper the mediation had taken place, and she was confident she 
could resume tenancies, and begin paying off the arrears. 
Mrs L complained, saying shed complied with its demand for evidence of the mediation and 
instead of agreeing a new arrangement, Jasper had appointed the LPA Receivers. Jasper 
issued a final response in January 2020 and Mrs L referred the complaint to us in 
February 2020. 
Meanwhile, Jasper said that the arrears must be repaid in full in order for the LPA Receivers 
to be dis-instructed. It then set the bar higher still by saying that it would only dis-instruct the 
Receivers if Mrs L, in addition to repaying the current arrears in full, also reduced the 
mortgage balance back to its original £425,000. In effect, she was being asked to repay the 
historic capitalised arrears from 2010.
Mrs L tried to take out a loan with a third-party lender to pay the money Jasper said was 
required in order for LPA Receivers to be dis-instructed. She complained again when Jasper 
apparently wouldnt give the third-party lender the assurance it wanted that Receivers would 
be dis-instructed on receipt of the loan proceeds. As a result, Mrs L says the loan didnt go 
ahead; she believes Jasper sabotaged it.  She was unhappy with the conditions Jasper had 
imposed for dis-instruction (especially having to clear the historic arrears from 2010) and 
disputed the figures involved.
Jasper answered this complaint in a final response in March 2020, but it seems Mrs L never 
received the letter. It only came to light several months later when one of our managers was 
dealing with Mrs Ls dissatisfaction with how we were handling her first complaint. By then, 
one of our investigators had assessed the first complaint and concluded Jasper hadnt acted 
unfairly in the appointment of the Receivers.
The manager arranged for the first complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, and set up 
a second complaint to deal with the issues covered in the March 2020 final response. A 
different investigator has looked at the second complaint, but hasnt recommend it be 
upheld. That case is currently awaiting allocation to an ombudsman to review, whilst the first 
complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair 
in the round. And I reiterate that I have to be mindful that I dont include anything in this 
decision that might identify Mrs L.
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority.  We deal 
with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions 
on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough information on file to decide it.
Mrs L has said that many telephone calls have taken place and its essential that recordings 
of them are listened to as part of the review of the complaint. Weve explained to Mrs L that it 
is for the reviewing ombudsman to decide if we have enough information (from both parties) 
to determine the complaint fairly. The ombudsman reviewing the second complaint will make 
his or her own judgement on whether the call recordings are essential to a fair outcome. 
Here, Im satisfied I can decide the complaint about the appointment of the LPA Receivers 
(and to be clear, thats all I deal with here) on the basis of the information before me now.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position here is that under the mortgage agreement with Mrs L, Jasper has the 
power to appoint Receivers. How and in what circumstances it exercises that power is a 
matter for Jaspers commercial judgement, and generally speaking we wont interfere with 
how a business has exercised its discretion. Wed only do so in circumstances where we thought that judgement had resulted in the 
business treating its customer unfairly. Ive looked long and hard at Mrs Ls case, and Ive 
seen nothing that would make me think that test had been met here. 
I dont think that the case turns on whether Jasper should have accepted Mrs Ls own letter 
as being enough corroboration of the imminent mediation. Rather, it seems to me that the 
crux of the problem was that Jasper didnt share Mrs Ls faith that she could resolve her 
difficulties with the local authority (whether through mediation or any other means) in a timely 
enough fashion so that she could restore her rental income stream and make serious 
inroads into the current arrears. 
I know Mrs L had high hopes for the mediation and indeed is of the view that it went her way, 
such that she has now been vindicated. Thats not a judgement for me to make; what 
happened during and after the mediation goes more to the merits of the second complaint 
(insofar as its about whether the LPA Receivers should have been dis-instructed) than this 
one. All I can consider is whether Jaspers lack of confidence in the likelihood of a positive 
outcome, that informed the decision to appoint Receivers in the first place rather than 
negotiate a fresh arrangement, was unfair or not. In all the circumstances, I cant find that it 
was.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman