DRN-2281609
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC caused a delay to a payment he was making, which
meant he had to pay a late payment fee.
What happened
Mr C set up a future-dated payment to his credit card provider. The payment was dated for
10 April, but that was the start of a long bank holiday weekend. So Mr Cs payment was
made on the next working day, Tuesday 14 April, instead. Mr Cs payment arrived on 15
April, which meant it was late, and he was charged £12 by his credit card provider.
Mr C said there was no indication on the payments page that 10 April wasnt a working day,
and there was no good reason to expect that a payment set for a date 3 days in advance of
when it was due, would end up being 2 days late. Mr C said that Lloyds has now told him
this payment is classed as a bill payment, not a faster payment, so will only be processed on
a working day.
Mr C thinks Lloyds should design its system to protect customers from making simple
mistakes, like forgetting the date of a future bank holiday. And he said it was very unclear
when he was setting up this payment, what sort of payment was going to be made.
Mr C has now checked Lloyds website, and that says payments will be sent as faster
payments if they can be, regardless of whether they are immediate or future dated. Hes
checked, and the account he paid can accept faster payments. But he says Lloyds tells him
this is a bill payment. He thinks that means that even if he chose to make this payment
immediately, on a non-working day, it would not be sent until days later.
Mr C said hed only been affected to a small extent financially, with a payment of £12, but
hed also taken time to complain to Lloyds, then to bring that complaint to us. He really
wanted Lloyds to sort this out, so he knew what was going to happen the next time he made
a payment.
When Lloyds replied to Mr Cs complaint, it said when someone is setting up a future-dated
payment, only faster payments, transfers between Lloyds bank personal accounts, and
certain card payments were processed every day. Other payments would only be processed
on working days. Lloyds didnt say how someone could set up a future-dated faster payment.
And it sent us internal documentation which says that if someones making a future-dated
payment, that will always be paid on the next working day.
Lloyds wrote to us and said that all payments are sent through the Faster Payment System,
if possible. But it then distinguished between immediate payments, which are sent within 2
hours, and future dated payments, which wont always be sent on the actual date chosen.
Those are sent either on the date nominated or the next working day, if the nominated day is
a weekend or bank holiday. It also sent us a screenshot of its payment screen for future-
dated payments. That includes a warning which says Payments that fall on a weekend or
public holiday will be taken on the next working day.
Mr C confirmed he had seen this warning, but he said that this appears whenever he makes
a future-dated payment, not only when that payment is due on a weekend or bank holiday.
He thought it should only appear when it was relevant.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said its beyond our remit
to ask a bank to alter its procedures or make it improve the level of service it provides to
customers. And Mr C had confirmed that, when going through the process of setting up a
payment, he did see the warning regarding payments not being sent on non-working days.
So our investigator couldnt say that Lloyds hadnt warned Mr C.
Our investigator said Mr C had told us he almost always makes this payment for his credit
card bill as a future-dated payment. And she could see they had almost all been categorised
as bill payments. So information on how payments were categorised was also available on
Mr Cs statements. Our investigator couldnt say Lloyds had made a mistake.
Mr C ran through what he could see on the payment page, and said it was vague, confusing,
and misleading. Customers were led to believe that a payment would be made on a
particular date, but also presented with a warning that it might not take place. It was up to
them to figure out if the warning is relevant, but without any of the relevant information to
make that decision. Mr C said Lloyds had all the relevant information, but was choosing to
hide it from customers at exactly the point when it agreed to perform the service.
Mr C said that Lloyds had a responsibility to make this clear, and he said that was what he
really wanted to resolve this complaint. Because no agreement had been reached, this
complaint was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Before I set out my findings, Id like to start by trying to make clear something that I 
think has caused a great deal of confusion in this case. Lloyds says all of its 
payments are sent by faster payment, where possible. The Faster Payments System 
is a system for transferring money between banks, and it usually only takes a couple 
of hours at most for payments to go through this system.
But Lloyds has also now told us that if someone makes a future dated payment, it will 
only action that payment on a working day. So, if Lloyds is given an instruction today 
to send a payment next Saturday, the payment will actually be sent, by Lloyds, on the 
following Monday.
The payment will still be routed through the Faster Payments System. So the 
payment will still get there within a couple of hours. The delay is caused by when 
Lloyds chooses to make the transfer.
I think that Lloyds can choose to have a system that does this if it wants to. I dont 
think its under an obligation to provide a system for making future-dated payments, 
which will make sure those payments are sent on non-working days.
I also think if Lloyds does this, it should warn its customers that when they are 
choosing a date in the future for their payment to be made, any payment scheduled 
for a non-working day wont go on that day. It will be delayed. And I can see that 
Lloyds does this whenever someone makes a future dated payment. I understand 
why Mr C thinks it would be better if Lloyds only showed this warning for non-working days or bank holidays, but our investigator explained that its not the role of our 
service to ask Lloyds to make service improvements. And I dont think its unfair or 
unreasonable for Lloyds to include this warning all the time. 
So I dont think Lloyds has made a mistake, in how it sets up its online payments 
system for future dated payments, or the warnings it provides about how that works.
But there is something that I do think Lloyds has got wrong. Its website doesnt make 
clear that future dated payments will be sent on the next working day. It says that all 
payments are sent as faster payments. But then Lloyds shows some of these, on 
customer statements, as bill payments, and some as faster payments.
I think the language Lloyds uses on its website and in its reply to Mr Cs complaint, 
has been confusing. Its not shown our service anything from its website which would 
explain the differing ways in which it makes immediate and future-dated payments. 
And that means that, once something went wrong, Mr C wasnt able to find a clear 
explanation on Lloyds website, or get a clear explanation in response to his 
complaint.
What Lloyds said in response to Mr Cs complaint was this Please be aware when 
making future payments, that only faster payments, transfers between Lloyds bank 
personal account and Debit and Cashpoint card payment are processed every day.
Mr C has spent time and effort trying to figure out how he can make one of the future-
dated payments that are also faster payments, so it will be made on the exact day he 
chooses, not the next working day. And the answer appears to be that he cant,  
Lloyds had just set this out incorrectly.
So Mr C then spent more time and effort bringing his complaint to us. I dont think he 
should have to do this, in order to be able to understand how his banking works.
I cant require Lloyds to change its website wording for the future. But I can award 
compensation to Mr C for the effect its confusing explanation had on him.
I think Lloyds should pay Mr C £50 for its failure to explain how future-dated 
payments work. I think that balances out that Mr C was warned in advance that his 
payment wouldnt be sent on a working day, and that Mr C doesnt appear to have 
looked into this on Lloyds website until after this payment was made, but also that 
Lloyds then failed to provide Mr C with a clear and straightforward explanation of its 
own policy.
I think that payment provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C said he would accept my decision. He understood that our service couldnt make 
Lloyds change how it operates its business. But he said that making this decision final may 
prove a small incentive to Lloyds to update its customer interface, and possibly save other 
customers from much more dire financial consequences than he had incurred.Lloyds made a number of further points. For clarity, I will set those out in italics below, then 
Ill respond to each of Lloyds points as I set them down.
Lloyds said Mr C had made a number of faster payments, both immediate and future dated, 
over the past months and years. So it asked if he hadnt confirmed an understanding of 
when bill payment or FPO (for Faster Payment) will be shown on his statement? Did he not 
confirm he saw the warning and understood his payment would not be sent on a non-
working day? 
Mr C accepted that he saw the warning about payments not being made on non-working 
days before he set up this payment. His argument was that this warning ought not to appear 
every time a future dated payment is made, but only when that future dated payment actually 
falls on a non-working day. I havent accepted that argument, or upheld his complaint on this 
point. 
Mr C doesnt appear to have noticed the very short annotation next to his credit card 
payments, which shows as either FPO (for faster payment) or BP (for bill payment). Our 
service drew this to his attention.
Lloyds said Mr Cs concern in this case was he didnt realise the date he chose was a bank 
holiday and the system did not notify him of this. But Lloyds said I was concentrating mainly 
on the term bill payment as this is what is stated on a customer statement and information 
available. So it said it was therefore worth highlighting a payment like a standing order. If a 
standing order was going to an external payee, that would also be sent via faster payment, 
but it does not require the bank statement to state as such. Statements are historical in 
respect of showing an event in the past. And Lloyds wanted to know if Mr C had explained 
he knew when he was setting up a further payment (bill payment) or making an immediate 
FPO. 
Im unclear as to the point Lloyds is endeavouring to make here. Mr Cs complaint wasnt 
about what showed on his statements. And my provisional decision, set out above, doesnt 
concentrate on the term bill payment. It highlights the inconsistent way in which Lloyds has 
used the term Faster Payment. And because I think that confusion has prolonged this 
complaint, I upheld Mr Cs complaint on this point.
Lloyds said its website does confirm it sends payments through the Faster Payment System. 
Thats subject to a daily limit, and any standing orders or future dated payments count 
towards the limit on the day that Mr C sets them up. 
I dont think that helps to deal with the confusion Lloyds created in this case.
Lloyds also said that a further section of its terms and conditions explained when payments 
would be made. That states expressly that Standing orders and future dated payments can 
be made on working days only. Lloyds said I hadnt considered this. 
I accept that if Mr C had read through the terms of his account, he wouldve seen a provision 
saying that future dated payments could only be made on working days. But I dont think this 
would resolve the confusion that Lloyds caused.
Ive already explained that Lloyds can decide only to make such payments on working days 
if it wants. And that isnt unfair. If it does that, it has to warn its customers about this. I 
decided that it had done enough to do this, and Mr Cs complaint on this wasnt upheld. 
I upheld Mr Cs complaint on one point only, and that was the confusion about how future-
dated payments worked. Ive quoted from the letter Lloyds wrote him above Please be aware when making future payments, that only faster payments, transfers between Lloyds 
bank personal account and Debit and Cashpoint card payment are processed every day. 
I still think that was unclear and unhelpful, particularly taken with web pages which confirmed 
that future dated payments would be sent through the Faster Payments System. 
The problem is that Lloyds hasnt clearly set out for Mr C the two ways in which it uses the 
term faster payments. It apparently uses this term to refer both to -
- payments which are sent through the Faster Payments System (which is almost all 
the domestic payments it makes, whether immediate or future-dated), and 
- payments which are sent the same day (as distinguished from future-dated 
payments). 
I do think its confusing, that Lloyds uses the same term to refer to two very different things. 
And I understand that, when it was writing to Mr C, Lloyds may not have meant to imply that 
there was a way to make a future-dated faster payment, which would be sent on the same 
day, but I think it did so. 
Ive considered these additional submissions carefully, but I havent changed my mind. Ill 
now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr C £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman