DRN-3771269
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly turned 
down a claim under a pet insurance policy for his dog.
What happened
Mr H first took out a policy with RSA for his dog in September 2020. The policy was renewed 
in September 2021.He made a claim for a cruciate ligament operation in his dogs right hind 
leg in January 2022. The operation cost over £3,000.
RSA reviewed the dogs medical history and refused to pay the claim. It said in August 2019 
before the policy was taken out the dog had had cruciate ligament surgery on his left leg. 
RSA said his policy didnt cover pre-existing conditions. It referred Mr H to the policy wording 
which said that treatment of cruciate ligaments in one leg would be treated as a pre-existing 
condition if another leg had been diagnosed or treated for cruciate ligaments before the 
policy was taken out.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Our Investigator didnt think RSA had treated 
him fairly as there was nothing in the medical history to suggest a link between the 
conditions in the left and right legs. She recommended RSA should reimburse Mr H for his 
vets costs plus interest at 8%.
RSA asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term in Mr Hs policy is very clear. It says that the policy doesnt cover pre-existing 
conditions. It lists some pre-existing conditions and goes on to say:
we consider the following to also be pre-existing conditions: 
treatment of cruciate ligaments in the second leg if one leg has shown signs, been 
diagnosed or been treated for cruciate ligaments before you took out the policy.
However, I need to consider whether it was fair for RSA to apply that exclusion to Mr Hs 
claim.
The vet to whom the dog was referred for surgery in August 2019 noted:
3 week history of left pelvic limb stiffness on rising. Went acutely lame after exercise.
Referring vet has diagnosed CCL [cranial cruciate ligament] failure.
No other health problems.
There was no reference at the time to any potential problems in future for the right hind leg. 
Over two years later the dog was referred for surgical correction of a right cranial cruciate 
ligament rupture. The vet took x-rays of the left leg and thought it had healed well after the 
earlier operation.
I think on the balance of probabilities the second injury should be treated as unrelated to the 
first. Thats because there was no mention of any problem with the other cruciate ligaments 
at the time the dog was being treated for the first or indeed at any time before December 
2021. Also the two injuries were more than two years apart, which would be consistent with 
the conclusion that the two incidents werent related to the same reoccurring condition. 
Based on this, I dont think RSA treated Mr H fairly in declining the claim on the ground that 
the second injury was a pre-existing condition.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should settle Mr Hs 
claim subject to the other terms and conditions of his policy. In addition as the vets fees 
have been paid by Mr H, I think Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited should also pay 
Mr H simple interest at the rate of 8% on the sum so paid from the date of payment to the 
date that payment is made to him.
If Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest payment, it should tell Mr H how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so that he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Royal and Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman