DRN-2846469
The complaint
This complaint is about an application Mr B made to transfer his mortgage with Barclays 
Bank UK Plc from his existing home to a new one. Barclays initially offered the full 
amount, but then withdrew the offer without warning or notice. After a long delay, Barclays 
eventually made another offer, albeit for a much smaller amount.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties. so I wont be 
repeating all the details here. Our decisions are published and its important that I dont 
include any information that might result in Mr B being identified. Instead Ill give a brief 
summary in my own words (and rounding the figures) and then focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision. 
Mr B already had a mortgage with Barclays on his current home. Between 2016 and 2018, 
Mr B and Barclays were in detailed discussions about Mr Bs plans to finance the building of 
a new home on land he had acquired. In December 2018 Barclays issued a mortgage offer 
of around £452,000, to be secured on the new property. 
This offer carried over the existing product terms from Mr Bs existing mortgage. This 
process, known as porting, allows a borrower to move to a new house and repay the existing 
mortgage without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC).  If the old mortgage is repaid 
before the new mortgage starts, the ERC is payable and then refunded once the new 
mortgage completes.
Mr B was expecting to complete the transaction in early 2019; he sold his house and repaid 
the existing mortgage, but instead of releasing the funds for the new mortgage, Barclays 
withdrew the offer. The reason Barclays gave for this was that its policy doesnt allow porting 
where the destination property is already owned. After a protracted exchange of dialogue, 
Barclays issued another mortgage offer in March 2019; this time, however, it was for 
£265,000. Mr B felt compelled to accept this offer, not least because it allowed him a partial 
refund of the ERC hed paid on redemption in January 2019. The mortgage completed in 
May 2019.
When Mr B complained, Barclays reimbursed Mr B a little over £950 for solicitors fees, and 
£144 to cover some bank charges. It also offered Mr B a total of £650 compensation for his 
time, trouble and upset. Mr B didnt accept the latter and referred his complaint to this 
service. In doing so, Mr B said he required £6,000 compensation for the distress and anxiety 
caused to him and his wife by Barclays not releasing the full mortgage, plus the following 
from Barclays:
additional funds of around £187,000 to be released, to fulfill the original offer from 
December 2018;
Barclays CEO to apologise in person to Mr B for failing to reply to him directly and 
instead allowing the matter to be so badly handed;
a full disclosure of the underwriting process, including calculations and internal 
communications;
redress for damages and financial losses; around £229,000 and £18,000 respectively in 
January 2020; and 
further compensation of £250 each for him and his wife every month after January 2020 
that the dispute remained unresolved.
Our investigator considered Barclays settlement offer to be fair and reasonable and didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr B asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it affects the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory (or simply disputed, as here) we 
reach our findings on what we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of 
probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and deciding how much weight should be 
attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual documents in isolation. We 
consider everything together to form a broader opinion on the whole picture. 
The starting point here is that borrowing money isnt a right; no ones entitled to borrow 
money, and lenders arent obliged to lend, even where theyve lent before. Lending 
decisions are matters of lenders commercial judgement, and generally speaking we wont 
interfere with how they exercise that judgement. What we will do is ensure lenders apply 
their lending policy and criteria fairly and accurately when reaching a decision. 
The first point for me to consider is whether the initial decision to offer Mr B £452,000 in 
December 2018 was the result of a fair and accurate application of Barclays lending policy. 
Lenders dont generally publish their full lending criteria as the information is commercially 
sensitive. However, Barclays has disclosed the relevant extract to us in confidence (thats 
allowed under our rules). Having studied it carefully, Im satisfied that porting to a property 
thats already owned isnt permitted. That being the case, the December 2018 offer wasnt 
the result of a fair and accurate application of Barclays lending policy. Put simply Barclays should not have issued that offer, and having reached that conclusion; I 
dont need to consider why it did so. All I need consider next is how Barclays behaved once 
it concluded, on further reflection, that the offer had been wrongly issued.
New rules came into force in March 2017 that make it much harder for a lender to withdraw a 
mortgage offer once its been issued. But the new rules dont mean lenders cant withdraw 
an offer after it has been made. They can still do so, if information comes to light that wasnt 
available before the offer was issued but which would have affected the decision to lend if it 
had been.
I dont think Barclays acted reasonably when it withdrew the offer. I cant see that the change 
of decision was prompted by new information that wasnt already available before the offer 
was issued. Rather, it looks like a re-assessment of the information already at Barclays 
disposal when it initially indicated its willingness to lend.
Barclays mistake was to issue an offer that should never have been issued; withdrawing 
that offer was a technical breach of the rules of mortgage regulation. We dont enforce such 
breaches, and the rules themselves dont specify redress, so it comes down what I consider 
fair and reasonable. In that context, rather than hold Barclays to its mistake (by ordering it to 
lend the full amount), I consider a fairer approach is to think in terms of the position Mr B 
would have been in if the mistake hadnt been made in the first place. Thats broadly 
consistent with our general approach.
Here, that would have meant Mr B not being able to get a porting mortgage from Barclays at 
all; put simply, he could never have had what he wanted. So he would have had get a 
completely different mortgage from the one he already had, whether with Barclays or 
through another lender. But in either case, it would have been a new application for a new 
mortgage on new terms, and that would have required affordability to be assessed. It also 
means Mr B would have had to pay the full ERC when the existing mortgage was repaid.
I dont know, on wont speculate on, what size of affordability-assessed mortgage Mr B might 
have been able to secure if hed approached another lender; nor do I need to. But I can say 
with some degree of certainty what he would have been offered by Barclays; the £265,000 it 
offered him in May 2019 as a way of mitigating the effect of its mistake. That enabled Mr B to 
recover some of the ERC hed paid; so in that context, Mr B is better off than he would have 
been if Barclays hadnt made the mistake of issuing a porting offer in the first place.
Taking in order the elements of compensation Mr Bs seeking, Ive already explained why it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to second guess Barclays judgement on how much it was 
willing to lend; it follows from this that I wont be ordering Barclays to lend Mr B the £187,000 
hes seeking.
On the question of an apology, Barclays certainly had good reason to apologise; it issued a 
mortgage offer that should never have seen the light of day. Both of the final responses 
Barclays sent Mr B contained apologies, but Mr B wants a personal apology from the CEO; 
in essence, for not dealing with the complaint himself. 
Subject to observing rules issued by the regulator, its up to a business to decide how 
complaints, including those received by the CEO, are handled. If the CEO chooses to 
delegate matters, thats not grounds for an apology. But even if I thought it was, I wouldnt 
order the CEO to do so; it would be completely pointless because an apology given under 
duress has no value.
As far as the disclosure of the underwriting process is concerned, Ive explained earlier that 
lending policy is confidential. If Mr B believes hes entitled to see information that Barclays hasnt provided under a data subject access request he made last year, hes welcome to 
raise that with the Information Commissioners Office if he wishes to. Its not something that 
has impacted my capacity to determine his complaint.
That brings me to compensation for time, trouble and upset. Barclays error here was to 
issue a porting offer that should never have been issued. If it hadnt done so, but instead 
gone directly to the affordability-assessed offer of £265,000, Mr Bs position wouldnt have 
been significantly different. He would still have needed to borrow the extra money 
elsewhere. Alternatively, he could have abandoned things with Barclays and gone elsewhere 
for all of his funding requirements. In the latter case, as Ive already said, hed then have 
remained liable for the full ERC when he redeemed his original mortgage. 
The main thrust of Mr Bs claim for damages and financial loss is that hes not been able to 
pursue further opportunities that would have been funded by the missing £187,000. But 
Mr B has known since May 2019 that this money wasnt available from Barclays; so hes had 
since then to mitigate his position by sourcing the money to pursue his venture from 
elsewhere. Viewed in that wider context, Mr Bs claim for damages and financial losses has 
to fail. 
That said, Mr B (not Mrs B, shes not a party to the mortgage or an eligible complainant 
under our rules) is due fair compensation for having had his expectations wrongly raised. He 
would have been saved a great deal of the distress and inconvenience he experienced. Hed 
have better placed to arrange things in his own time rather than under the pressure of having 
sold his home and repaid the mortgage (with an ERC). 
This is very much a subjective area; everyone reacts to and perceives things differently, 
especially in the moment, when subject to the stresses that are inherent in moving to a new 
house. But I have to take a step back and assess things objectively. When I do that, and 
take into account the ERC partial refund that Mr B wouldnt have received if Barclays had 
done the right thing at the outset, I find Barclays offer of £650 compensation to be fair in all 
the circumstances. 
Mr B doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor Barclays 
will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mr Bs right to take legal action against Barclays over the subject matter of 
this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill simply leave it to Mr B to decide 
whether, on further reflection, he wishes to accept Barclays offer of £650 compensation. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman