DRN-2266048
The complaint 
Mr M complains that Newcastle Building Society (NBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1992 alongside his mortgage.
What happened
Mr M took out a mortgage in September 1992. At the same time, he bought a PPI policy.
This policy covered Mr M if he was off work through an accident, sickness or if he lost his 
job. It cost him £4.80 per £100 of the monthly benefit and the initial cost was £14.68. If Mr M 
had made a successful claim the PPI would have provided an initial monthly benefit of 
£320.47. The monthly cost and benefit changed over the term of the mortgage. The policy 
was cancelled when the mortgage account was repaid in June 2010. 
In his complaint to this service Mr M told us the policy was presented to him as compulsory 
and he had to have it in order to get his mortgage.
 
Our adjudicator didnt think this policy had been mis-sold. He did say however, that because 
NBS had received a high level of commission and NBS didnt tell Mr M about that, NBS had 
offered to give back half of the cost of the PPI. Our adjudicator thought that was a fair way to 
resolve the matter. Mr M disagreed with this view and asked that his matter be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I issued my provisional decision in September 2020 in which I explained in some more detail 
than our adjudicator why I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint. 
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before I made my final decision.
An extract of my provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.
I want to assure Mr M that I have considered at length what he told us about the PPI sale. I 
am very sorry to disappoint him, but as things stand, Im afraid Im not intending to uphold 
this complaint, but Id like to explain why in some more detail.
Not all the information is now available from the time of the sale. That isnt surprising or 
unusual as businesses arent required to keep records for an indefinite period. But where the 
evidence is incomplete, I will make my decision based on the balance of probabilities. That 
means that I will decide this case based on whats more likely to have happened, 
considering the evidence that is available, what the parties have told me and bearing in mind 
what we know about these types of sales at that time.
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr M had a fair choice about buying the policy. This 
is the crux of Mr Ms complaint  hes told us that he was informed that NBS would only give 
him the mortgage if he took out the PPI.
NBS has been able to provide a copy of the mortgage application form completed at the 
time. NBS can see that the mortgage application form was received via an introducer, but it 
has said it will take responsibility for the sale of the PPI. In any event it would make no 
difference to my decision for the reasons I will set out below. 
Looking first at whether the PPI was compulsory I cant say whether Mr M was told he had to 
have this policy in order to get the mortgage or not as not all the paperwork is available. I 
dont think at the time of this sale PPI was compulsory with all NBS mortgages but NBS has 
said Mr M took a fixed rate product where it is a possibility that the PPI was compulsory.
I have no doubt Mr M has given me his honest recollection of the sale and he is adamant 
that the PPI was necessary to get his mortgage. I have considered what Mr M has said. NBS 
has also given me contradictory information. In its final response letter, it told Mr M the policy 
was presented as optional. On the other hand, in its response form to this service NBS later 
said it did not have a copy of the scheme condition for the fixed rate, however, it believes the 
insurances were compulsory.
 
As so much time has gone by, Ive thought about both scenarios  that is, that Mr M was told 
he had to have the PPI to get the mortgage and, in the alternative, if it wasnt compulsory 
whether he was given an option to buy the insurance.
I cant say what was said to Mr M before he bought the PPI. Sometimes PPI policies were 
sold as compulsory in order to get a particular rate or a specific mortgage deal. I need to 
decide if the product was compulsory whether NBS were entitled to make it compulsory. In 
my view, the lender can make a policy compulsory as it can decide the terms on which it is 
prepared to lend. There was nothing wrong in that, as Mr M could have chosen a different 
mortgage product if he did not want the PPI. And we do sometimes see policies where PPI 
was sold like this as part of an incentive. So, in the event it was compulsory, that was likely 
something Mr M had accepted in order to get the specific mortgage interest rate which I can 
see was fixed for three years. If he hadnt wanted the cover, then he could have chosen an 
alternative mortgage product and declined the cover.
 
NBS has provided a copy of the completed mortgage application form. I have looked at this 
carefully. The form was completed, and several choices were made. On it theres a section 
about PPI which has been ticked to confirm that Mr M wanted to take it out. This section has 
been crossed through, but I think that could have been done later in administering the policy.
Theres also nothing in the offer which specifically states that PPI was compulsory - it does 
refer to the fact that the offer has been issued on the understanding that the insurance 
requirements were maintained. NBS reserved the right to amend the interest rate charges if 
not. But I dont think this condition referred to PPI - it could have referred to the endowment 
policies which Mr M had to have in place. This might be what Mr M is remembering as there 
were some insurance conditions (not for PPI) attached to getting this mortgage product.
So, if it wasnt compulsory, Ive thought about whether Mr M was given an option about 
buying it. The separate section on the application form says: We recommend that you cover 
your mortgage repayments for a specified period in the event of accident, sickness and 
unemployment. If Mr M hadnt wanted the cover (if it wasnt compulsory), then Mr M could 
have left this section blank. Mr M has signed and dated the application form. I think its more 
likely as he was taking on a new financial commitment that he read the forms he was 
signing.The mortgage offer set out the cost of the PPI and the completion advice also set out the 
various costs. In 1995, I can also see a letter was sent to Mr M confirming the end of the 
original fixed rate and listing the revised monthly repayment  including the PPI. All in all, I 
think its more likely (if it wasnt compulsory) that he was given a choice. If Mr M hadnt 
wanted the cover or had wanted to question it, he could have done so with NBS before he 
has done - I havent seen evidence he did this.
Mr M says the PPI was sold at a meeting and that he was advised to take out the policy. 
NBS says it didnt advise Mr M to take out the PPI. I dont think it makes any difference to my 
decision as to whether this was an advised sale or not as I still think the policy was suitable 
for Mr M.
I say this because Mr M was eligible for the policy. He was working and didnt have any 
unusual employment terms. He also had no pre-existing health problems. So, I dont think Mr 
M would have been affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions which might have 
made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim.
Mr M says he would have been entitled to six months sick pay but less than 12 months from 
his employer and hes told us he had some savings worth less than 3 months of his pay. Mr 
M has also told us he had redundancy pay and life cover.
This policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay he received and likely for longer 
than it lasted. If he was unable to work through an accident or sickness, any savings he had 
could have been useful for everyday living expenses. If Mr M lost his job, any redundancy 
pay he received, could have been used for essential expenditure at what no doubt could 
have been a stressful time financially. 
Mr M says his job was secure and I can understand why he feels this way as he had been 
working in his employment for a long time. But insurance is there to protect an unexpected 
event and circumstances can change. The PPI offered Mr M protection for his home which 
was a valuable asset. The consequences of being unable to repay his mortgage if he 
couldnt work were serious. I would also add that PPI is different to life cover which would 
only pay out on death.
 
The cost of the policy was set out in the paperwork and theres is nothing to make me think 
the PPI was unaffordable.
Its possible that not all the information NBS gave to Mr M was as clear as it could have 
been. But for much the same reasons as set above as to why I think the policy was suitable, 
I dont think its likely clearer or better information would have changed Mr Ms mind about 
buying the cover.
As things stand, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Which means NBS doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But NBS has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
 
 NBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr M about that. Because NBS didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
 To put that right, NBS has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.But Newcastle Building Society does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I am uncertain whether this has 
already been paid to Mr M and cashed - if not this should be paid.
NBS responded to my provisional decision and said it didnt have anything more it wished to 
add. Mr M also replied and told me he wasnt in agreement with what I said. In summary he 
said the following:
He wasnt confused. He knew what he was told  that the insurance was a pre-
requisite for getting the mortgage.
The introducer had something to gain if he took out the insurance- not being an NBS 
employee, he had commissions to gain.
The application form signed was not completed by him but by the financial adviser. 
Whilst he read it he wondered whether the form said the insurance was not 
mandatory?
If he had thought it was compulsory, why would he think to cancel the policy?
Redundancy was the last thing on his mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
I want to thank Mr M for his observations and comments. I have reconsidered everything 
hes said. Im sorry to disappoint him but I have still decided not to uphold this complaint.
Taking each of Mr Ms points:
The insurance was a pre-requisite of getting the mortgage
As I explained in my provisional decision, I looked at both scenarios- that is that this policy 
was a pre-requisite of getting his mortgage i.e. it was compulsory and if it wasnt compulsory 
whether Mr M had been given a fair choice.
If it was compulsory
To clarify - as I said, if the PPI was compulsory this was something NBS was entitled to do 
as it can decide the terms upon which it wishes to lend. And I said we do sometimes see 
policies where PPI was sold like this as part of an incentive. So, in the event it was 
compulsory, that was likely something Mr M had accepted in order to get the specific 
mortgage interest rate which I can see was fixed for three years.
 
Mr M is right that if he was told it was compulsory it was a pre-requisite for getting his 
mortgage, but I think he more likely would have understood at the time that this was 
something he had to have to get the particular mortgage he wanted. And there was nothing 
wrong in NBS telling him it was compulsory in that case. Mr M could have chosen a different 
product or declined the mortgage if he didnt want the PPI.
If it wasnt compulsory  The application form signed was not completed by him but by the 
financial adviser. Whilst he read the forms, he wondered whether the form said the 
insurance was not mandatory?I explained that the paperwork didnt specifically show the PPI was compulsory. I looked at 
the application form carefully and the offer and a later letter confirming the end of the fixed 
rate and which told him about the revised monthly payment including the PPI. So, all in all if 
it wasnt compulsory, I said he was more likely given a choice. 
And the forms might have been completed by the representative but as Mr M was taking on 
a new and important financial commitment, I think he would likely have read them and 
understood what he was applying for.
And in that event, he could have questioned NBS if it was something he was unsure about.
Redundancy was the last thing on his mind
In my provisional decision I also dealt with Mr Ms concern about this point. I said Mr M says 
his job was secure and I can understand why he feels this way as he had been working in 
his employment for a long time. But insurance is there to protect an unexpected event and 
circumstances can change. The PPI offered Mr M protection for his home which was a 
valuable asset. The consequences of being unable to repay his mortgage if he couldnt work 
were serious.
So, I still think the PPI was suitable for him and could have been useful in the case of an 
unexpected event or a change in circumstances.
The introducer had something to gain if he took out the insurance- not being an NBS 
employee, he had commissions to gain.
I explained that NBS had taken responsibility for this complaint. In respect of any 
commissions I said:
NBS has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
 
 NBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mr M about that. Because NBS didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair.
 To put that right, NBS has offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M but I hope the reasons Ive given explain why I dont uphold this 
complaint but NBS does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I am uncertain whether this has already been 
paid to Mr M and cashed - if not this should be paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. Newcastle Building Society should 
pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. I am uncertain whether this has already been paid to Mr M and cashed - if not this 
should be paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman