DRN-2643099
The complaint
Miss A complains that London General Insurance Company Limited damaged her laptop 
when it was being repaired under her laptop insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to London General includes its agents.    
What happened
Miss As laptop was dropped which caused damage to the screen. She contacted London 
General who asked her to take pictures of her laptop, so it could assess the damage. 
London General accepted the claim for the damaged screen and collected her laptop so it 
could be repaired. 
London General repaired the screen on Miss As laptop and sent it back to her. When Miss A 
received her laptop, she noticed the base of it had been dented so complained to London 
General the next day. She said the dent wasnt there before and this was shown by the 
pictures shed sent London General. 
London General looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said when it received the 
laptop it took pictures, and these showed the dent was already there before it started the 
repair. London General also said Miss As picture wasnt clear enough to show the dent 
wasnt there before London General collected the laptop. Miss A didnt agree and brought 
her complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it was upheld. She said she 
didnt think the pictures, Miss A took of her laptop before London General collected it, 
showed the dent. Because of this she recommended London General repair the dent in the 
laptop as it was likely it was damaged in transit, after London General had collected it. 
London General didnt agree, it said as our investigator had adjusted the brightness of the 
picture it didnt think it was fair to rely on them. As London General didnt agree the 
complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
London General accepted Miss As claim and repaired the damage to her laptop. I therefore 
wont consider the claim repair further in this decision. However, Im considering whether 
London General damaged Miss As laptop when it was in for repair.  
Miss A said if the dent had been on her laptop before she would have also claimed for it. I 
cant see from the claim notes that Miss A raised the dent in her original claim and from her 
comments I think its likely she would have. That being said Ive also considered the pictures 
of Miss As laptop before it went in for repair, when it was received at the repairers and also 
when it was returned to Miss A. 
From looking at the pictures Im satisfied the dent is visible in the photos from when it was 
received for repair, and after it was returned to Miss A. However, Im not persuaded the dent 
was in the picture Miss A took of the laptop before it collected for repair. Ive considered 
London Generals comments about this picture not being clear and Im not persuaded by 
them. I understand London General doesnt think it was fair for our investigator to increase 
the brightness of the picture, but I dont think that makes a difference. I say this because Ive 
reviewed the picture without altering the brightness or any other settings and Im satisfied its 
clear and doesnt show the dent. 
When Ive reviewed the picture, Ive zoomed in and been able to read the serial number, so 
as its clear enough to read this, I think it would also be clear enough to see a dent. And as 
Im unable to see a dent in the picture Miss A took before London General collected it, I think 
its most likely her laptop was damaged while in London Generals care. So, as it was in 
London Generals possession at the time, it follows that its only fair and reasonable London 
General repair the damage. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint. London General Insurance 
Company Limited need to repair the dent in Miss As laptop.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman