DRN-2160944
The complaint
Ms W says Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened
Ms W bought the policy during a branch meeting in 2009 to cover her mortgage taken out in 
2007. 
The policy provided cover for Ms W for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £706.35 a month towards Ms Ws mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £26.13 a month. 
At the time, Ms W was employed as an administration assistant. She has told us she was 
entitled to three months sick pay and redundancy. Ms W has said she suffered depression 
and anxiety around 1993 and had around two weeks off work but she hasnt said whether 
these conditions caused any further time off work or ongoing problems.  
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 2007. 
Ms Ws representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ws representative says:
BOS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Ms W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Ms Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means BOS should have told 
Ms W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms W and the impact 
they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Ms W received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated mortgage contract. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable.
This sale took place in 2009 after the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there have for some time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products such as PPI. There is much in common between the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance, I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good industry practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC). It published The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers  the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum standards of good practice for its members to follow 
when selling insurance, including PPI. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BOS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
The sale took place after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules (MCOB) are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage related matters, it also included some insurance-
related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became a regulated activity in January 
2005, so BOS was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Ms Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
- If BOS gave advice, whether it advised Ms W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given her needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether BOS gave Ms W sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Ms W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms W suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms W and BOS, 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms W know she had a choice?
Ms W was sold the policy during a meeting. BOS had to make it clear the policy was optional 
and that Ms W chose to take it. Ms W says this wasnt done but hasnt given much detail 
about why she thought this, which I think is understandable as the policy was sold a while 
ago. So to help me reach my decision Ive also looked at what the documents from the time 
show.
The policy was sold two years after Ms W had her mortgage in place. BOS has given us a 
copy of the pack it says was sent to Ms W about PPI. Within the pack is a letter thanking Ms 
W for choosing PPI, a demands and needs statement and quote outlining the cost for PPI 
as well as an explanation about how to cancel the policy.
The information recorded in these documents suggests that Ms W spent some time 
discussing her circumstances and whether she wished to arrange cover to protect her 
mortgage payments and within the demands and needs document it recommends PPI for 
Ms W. 
I think its likely Ms W wouldve received and read the pack. I think if there hadnt been any 
discussion about PPI and Ms W hadnt agreed to take the policy she wouldve questioned 
why she received a pack for it.
I think the PPI information pack presents PPI as optional and I think given the importance of 
the financial commitment Ms W was making she wouldve read these documents and 
understood she had a choice in taking out PPI especially as she already had her mortgage 
in place. And I think Ms W was covered by PPI because she selected to take it based on 
what was recommended to her.
did BOS provide advice?
The sales documentation shows that BOS recommended PPI to Ms W. This means BOS 
had to advise Ms W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was 
appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests 
that BOS took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Ms W. The adviser had information about some of Ms Ws financial circumstances as 
part of the mortgage application. But although a demands and needs statement was 
completed to try and establish whether Ms W had a need for the policy  by asking 
questions about her wider circumstances such as any health issues and existing means  I 
dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example I cant see that the 
policy exclusions were explained to Ms W. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to 
determine whether the policy was suitable for Ms W given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BOS advised with reasonable care and skill.While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Ms W, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
- Ms W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
- Ms W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Ms Ws ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Ms W was not 
working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits 
and sick pay she says she would have been entitled to.
- The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Ms W. 
- The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable for Ms W. There was 
nothing about Ms Ws employment or occupation which would have made it difficult 
for her to claim. And although shes told us about suffering from depression and 
anxiety in 1993 this was over 10 before the policy was sold and the sales documents 
show that she answered no to consulting a doctor about these conditions when the 
policy was sold.
 
- While the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Ms Ws 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing advice, BOS gave Ms W sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what BOS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms W was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Ms W was 
unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the costs  this was 
shown on the quote pack. And I think its unlikely Ms W would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether BOS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions or limitations before Ms W agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties representations about what happened, while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms W Im not persuaded BOS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BOS gave Ms W all of the information she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Ms Ws representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the 
insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Ms W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her.
Im not persuaded by Ms Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms W has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have on Ms W? To what extent did Ms W suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Ms W 
would have still taken out the policy, had BOS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended was suitable for Ms W, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Ms W has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, Ms 
W would have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Ms W says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before deciding whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms W had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean when BOS advised her that there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she 
wanted that product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what she thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about Ms Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.As Ive also already explained, the information Ms W was given about the cost and benefit 
was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms W thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions and symptoms that Ms W 
knew about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy unless 
she had been symptom free and had not consulted a doctor or received treatment for 
the condition within 24 months before the claim; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Ms W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms W be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have caused 
Ms W pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms W from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Ms Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Ms W was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Ms W wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. So, I still think she had 
some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were more onerous than Ms W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim. And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Ms W 
from taking out the policy, Ms W, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
If Ms W had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about what she would have done. And I 
accept it may have given her pause for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Ms W was unable (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also, in 
all probability, be limited.
BOS may not have told Ms W that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have differed from what she expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months was a long period of time and her statutory redundancy entitlement was also 
significantly less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely Ms W would still have thought a policy that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences should Ms W be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time, ensure her home was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve Ms Ws sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms W would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting and provided benefits that 
would help her manage the consequences if Ms W was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Ms W 
would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms W would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Ws 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Ms W 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same position she would have been in had 
the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Ms W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms W in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BOS should pay Ms W compensation, as that would put her in a better position than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Ms W thinks BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BOS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because the overall information BOS gave Ms W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2009 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ws representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BOS negligently misrepresented the contract to Ms W and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were to find that BOS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Ms W in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman