DRN-4025712
The complaint
Mr J and Mrs J complain about QIC Europe Ltd and the decision to decline the claim they 
made on their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J and Mrs J held a home insurance policy, underwritten by QIC. On 22 April 2022, Mr J 
and Mrs J permanently vacated the insured property and moved abroad. Around the same 
time, the contracts were exchanged for the sale of the property, with a completion date for 
the sale set for 6 May 2022.
On 30 April 2022, Mr J and Mrs Js daughter visited the property to collect some personal 
belongings that were in the house. But when she arrived, she discovered many of these 
items had been stolen. And she found that the pipe work in the house had been removed.
Mr J and Mrs J reported the crime to the police. And on 5 May, they made a claim on the 
insurance policy with QIC for the repair work needed to the property, alongside the costs of 
the contents that had been stolen.
QIC considered the claim and declined it. They explained that, as Mr J and Mrs Js daughter 
didnt live with them in the property, they werent eligible to claim for their belongings that 
had been stolen. And QIC explained they wouldnt cover the repair costs to the pipework and 
any damage caused by its theft, as Mr J and Mrs Js property was unoccupied at the time of 
the theft. QIC also explained their belief that the propertys new owner, who Ill refer to as K 
had alternative insurance in place from the date of exchange. Mr J and Mrs J were unhappy 
with this, so they raised a complaint.
Mr J and Mrs J didnt think QICs decision to decline the claim was fair. They explained the 
property was still furnished when the thefts took place. And they didnt believe K had been 
able to claim on any alternative insurance. So, they thought that, as the theft took place 
when they owned the property and the insurance policy was in place, QIC should cover the 
costs needed to repair the pipe work to the property as well as the costs of the contents that 
were stolen.
QIC responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they had declined both 
aspects of the claim fairly, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy Mr J and Mrs J 
held. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr J and Mrs J remained 
unhappy with this response, so they referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought QIC acted fairly, 
and with the terms of the policy, when declining the contents aspect of the claim. And they 
quoted a specific exclusion relating to the occupancy of the home, which they felt QIC were 
fair to rely on when declining the remainder of the claim. So, they didnt think QIC needed to 
do anything more.
Mr J and Mrs J didnt agree. They explained the property was left furnished and so, was in 
the same state it wouldve been had they decided to go on holiday, rather than move abroad 
full time. And they didnt think it was fair for them to be penalised, when they had footage of 
the theft taking place. Mr J and Mrs J also explained that, at the time they left the property, 
they were undecided about whether they were relocating abroad full time and thought this 
should be considered as they may have decided to return. As Mr J and Mrs J didnt agree, 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr J and Mrs J. I appreciate 
they were victims of a theft, through no fault of their own. And I can understand the upset 
this wouldve caused them and how this is likely to have been made worse due to their 
location and the time zone implications. I also recognise the inconvenience this wouldve 
caused them needing to try and arrange repairs for a house that had since been sold.
But for me to say QIC should overturn their original decision and accept the claim, I first 
need to be satisfied QIC did something wrong when declining it. So, Id need to be satisfied 
they failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy Mr J and Mrs J held when they 
declined the claim. Or, if I think they did act within these, that they acted unfairly when doing 
so. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
how Ive considered the complaint. Its not my role, or the role of our service, to re-underwrite 
the claim as we dont have the expertise to do so. Instead, it is my role to consider the 
actions QIC have taken alongside the policy documents and decide whether I think they 
have acted fairly and reasonably.
In this situation, its been confirmed that the contents stolen from the property were items 
belonging to Mr J and Mrs Js daughter and her husband. And its been confirmed the 
daughter and her husband hadnt lived at the property since December 2020 and that the 
items had been left there to be stored.
Ive seen the term family included within the terms of the policy is defined as your children; 
and other members of your family that permanently live with you in your home during the 
period of insurance.
Its not in dispute that the period of insurance started on 30 August 2021, as shown in the 
policy schedule. As Mr J and Mrs Js daughter and her husband werent living in the property 
at and from this time, I dont think they were eligible to be covered under the family definition.
And I can see under the contents section of the policy, it explains QIC will pay for any 
contents shown in your schedule which belong to you or your family, or which you or your 
family are legally responsible for. So, while I appreciate the items stolen belonged to Mr J 
and Mrs Js daughter, I dont think these items were insured under the policy Mr J and Mrs J 
held as Mr J and Mrs Js daughter and husband didnt live at the property. And because of 
this, I think QIC acted fairly, in line with the terms of the policy, when declining this aspect of 
the claim.Ive then turned to the repairs needed to the property due to the theft of the pipework. QIC 
have declined this claim, referring to the terms and conditions listed under the heading 
Purchasers interest. This section explains the rights the person purchasing their property 
had under the policy after contracts had been exchanged, up to the date of completion.
Within this section, it explains that QIC dont cover the following:
a. any payment if the building being sold is covered under other insurance;
b. loss or damage that would not be covered under the normal terms and conditions of the 
policy; and
c. loss or damage while the building are unoccupied or unfurnished
And I can see QIC have referred to both terms a and c when declining the claim.
From the notes Ive seen, I think Mr J and Mrs Js buyer did take out alternative insurance 
around the date contracts were exchanged. But I dont think its been confirmed exactly 
when this was and so, whether this alternative insurance was in force and able to be claimed 
upon.
But whether or not this was available, I can see in their correspondence to us Mr J and Mrs J 
confirmed they had moved out of the property and flown abroad permanently on 22 April 
2022. So, from this date, I think the property was left unoccupied. And the theft occurred 
during this unoccupancy.
I appreciate Mr J and Mrs J say they only intended to fly abroad as a holiday at that time, 
and that they may have chosen to return. But this contradicts what they initially stated in their 
first correspondence to us. And I dont think its likely Mr J and Mrs J would have returned, 
as the property had been sold subject to completion and so they would have nowhere to live. 
So, Im satisfied that, based on Mr J and Mrs Js initial testimony and the other information 
available to me, they had permanently moved out of the property from 22 April 2022.
Because of this, I think QIC have acted fairly when relying on the exclusion Ive quoted 
above, relating to the property being unoccupied. And so, I dont think I can say theyve done 
anything wrong when declining the claim and it follows that I dont think they need to do 
anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr J and Mrs J were hoping for. And I want to reassure 
them Ive taken their comments regarding the furnishing of the property on board. But the 
exclusion above clearly states unoccupied or unfurnished. So, I dont think the property 
needed to be both unoccupied and unfurnished for the exclusion to apply.
Ive also considered their comments surrounding what wouldve happened had they only 
gone on holiday, with an intention to return to the property if it wasnt being sold. But 
crucially, the property was being sold, and contracts had been exchanged. So, the 
purchasers interest section came into force at this point. Had Mr J and Mrs J not sold their 
property, then the exclusions Ive referred to wouldnt have applied. And because of this, this 
hasnt impacted the decision Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr J and Mrs Js complaint about QIC Europe 
Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman