DRN-2575323
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that, because Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) failed to identify a leak, her 
home was damaged by an ongoing escape of water.
What happened
Miss H had home emergency cover with Aviva. She made a claim under her policy for a bad 
smell coming from her downstairs wash basin. Avivas engineer investigated but didnt find 
anything causing the smell. The water was flowing properly through the pipes and there was 
no indication of a blockage or leak. The engineer advised Miss H to pour bleach into the 
overflow.
Six months later, Miss H claimed again, saying the bad smell was coming from the 
downstairs toilet. Aviva couldnt find the source of the smell on the first visit, but it arranged 
for further investigation. A leak was identified under the floor and Aviva agreed the water had 
been leaking for a long time.
As a result of the leak, Miss Hs floor collapsed in two places and her flooring was damaged. 
This was repaired under a separate claim.
 
Miss H complained to Aviva because she thought if it had investigated further on the original 
visit, the additional damage to her floor might not have happened. Aviva didnt agree 
because it hadnt been made aware that the problem was ongoing.
Our investigator upheld Miss Hs complaint. She agreed with Miss H that Aviva couldve 
done more on the first visit. By not doing so, our investigator thought Aviva had caused Miss 
H the inconvenience of six months living with the bad smell and, later, the holes in her floor. 
Our investigator thought Aviva should pay Miss H £300 in compensation.
Aviva didnt agree. While it accepted that the leak had been ongoing for some time, it wasnt 
aware that the problem had continued after its first visit. It didnt think it was responsible for 
any inconvenience.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2021 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Miss Hs complaint. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this will be disappointing for Miss H, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. 
Ill explain why.
The issue is that Miss H thinks Aviva shouldve done more when it first attended her home to 
investigate a bad smell originating from her downstairs bathroom. Its failure to do so meant 
the leak continued and caused further damage to her home. Aviva doesnt think it did 
anything wrong.
Ive looked at the policy and its clear that Miss H was covered for the problem she reported. 
This isnt disputed. So Ive thought about whether Avivas response to her initial claim was 
reasonable. 
Miss H reported a bad smell from her basin. Aviva couldnt find any evidence of a blockage 
and reported that the water was running through without any evidence of leaks. The 
engineer suggested pouring bleach in to clean the overflow pipe. Given that Miss Hs claim 
was for the smell, rather than signs of a blockage or leak, I wouldnt necessarily have 
expected Aviva to carry out a more extensive investigation at that point. Doing so couldve 
caused unnecessary damage to Miss Hs property when bleach may have resolved the bad 
smell. So, I think Avivas more conservative approach as a first course of action was 
reasonable. 
Miss H didnt contact Aviva again until six months later when she reported a bad smell from 
her toilet. I understand shed lost faith in Aviva and tried to find another plumber before 
making this second claim. Aviva identified the leak after investigating further, by which point 
Miss Hs floor was damaged. 
But I dont think its fair to suggest Aviva provided a poor service because it didnt 
immediately identify the leak, which was under the floor, on the first visit. If Miss H had told 
Aviva sooner that using bleach hadnt resolved the problem, I have no reason to doubt that it 
wouldve arranged another visit. I also have no reason to doubt that it wouldve carried out 
more in depth investigations at that point, because thats what it did six months later. So I 
cant reasonably say Aviva did anything wrong, because it wasnt aware that there was an 
ongoing problem.
While Miss H may have been distressed by the bad smell coming from her downstairs 
bathroom, I dont think its fair to hold Aviva responsible for not fixing it on the first visit. I can 
understand that Miss H thought Aviva shouldve identified the problem straight away, but I 
wouldnt necessarily expect Aviva to progress straight to a more in depth investigation in the 
absence of evidence of a blockage. It provided advice for Miss H and I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to assume Miss H would contact it again if following its advice hadnt 
solved the problem. 
Ive thought about whether some of Miss Hs dissatisfaction couldve been with the overall 
circumstances of the leak and damage to her home, which she now feels Aviva is 
responsible for. I understand that Miss Hs home insurance claim was initially declined but 
later accepted. That meant, for a while, she didnt think she would be covered for the 
damage to her floors (a matter which was later resolved and isnt addressed here). I can 
understand why she wouldve wanted someone to be responsible for that, but I dont think 
its fair to hold Aviva responsible, under the circumstances, for not identifying the leak on the 
first occasion. Because Miss Hs floor repairs were covered, I dont think anything Aviva did, 
or didnt do, has caused her any significant material loss for which it needs to compensate 
her. 
Overall, I dont think Aviva had a fair chance to resolve the problem Miss H reported, which 
was later identified as a leak, because it wasnt told that the initial advice it gave hadnt 
worked. For that reason I see no reason to ask it to pay compensation for any upset caused 
by linked events during the six month gap between appointments.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Aviva responded to say it had nothing further to add. Miss H didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any further comment for me to consider, I see no reason to change 
my provisional findings. So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for 
the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman