DRN-3788735
The complaint
Mr L and Ms P complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt do enough to protect 
them when they fell victim to a scam and that it hasnt reimbursed them for their losses.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Its not in dispute that the funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute 
that Ms P authorised the payments using her Santander joint account debit card, 
albeit not realising she was being scammed. So, the starting position  in line with 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017  is that Mr L and Ms P would be liable for 
the transactions.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id 
expect Santander to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In 
some circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional 
checks before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a 
fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold Santander liable.
Ive considered whether Santander ought to have made additional checks on the 
disputed payments. And I dont think it ought to have. Each of the payments were 
made to the same recipient  a legitimate cryptocurrency provider. I appreciate that, 
overall, Mr L and Ms P lost almost £8,000 which is a significant amount of money. 
But this amount wasnt paid in one large single payment or out of character 
transaction  there were three separate transactions. 
The first transaction, which looks to have been made at the end of March 2021, was 
for around £4,200. I acknowledge how significant this amount is to Mr L and Ms P  
and I recognise the impact of this loss, and the overall loss, on them. However, I 
dont consider this sum to have been such a large amount that it would have 
appeared unusual or out of character to Santander to the extent that it ought to have 
been regarded as suspicious or indicating they might have been at risk of falling for a 
scam. 
The remaining two transactions were for lower sums  of around £2,600 and around 
£1,000. Again, I dont consider that these ought to have triggered Santanders fraud 
alert systems as being particularly unusual or out of character. And I note that the 
three payments spanned a period of just over three weeks, so were relatively spaced 
out. 
Mr L and Ms P have raised the point that they funded the account with £10,000 to 
keep the account at an even level. And the suggestion here was that this was what 
prevented the account from suddenly appearing drained. Ive considered this but it 
doesnt make a difference to my decision. The £10,000 was paid in after the final 
payment had been made to the cryptocurrency exchange and, with or without this 
payment, a healthy sum remained in the account. So, I dont find it to be of particular 
relevance here. 
So, I dont think Santander should have intervened with these payments. It follows 
that I dont think it can fairly be held liable for Mr L and Ms Ps losses here. 
Ive then considered whether Santander acted reasonably in terms of its attempts to 
recover the funds. Based on what Ive seen, it doesnt appear that Santander was 
made aware of the issue in time to raise a chargeback. However, had it done so, its 
unlikely that a chargeback would have been successful. I say this because Mr L and 
Ms Ps payments went to a legitimate cryptocurrency provider which then provided 
the service it was required to  the exchange of cryptocurrency. So, there wouldnt 
have been a valid chargeback reason. 
In summary, I wouldnt have expected Santander to have intervened with any of the 
payments - and I dont hold it liable for Mr L and Ms Ps losses. I also dont think any 
further action in terms of recovery would have resulted in a different outcome  i.e. it 
couldnt have recovered the funds. 
I know how disappointing this will be for Mr L and Ms P, and Im sorry they fell victim to such 
a cruel scam. But I dont think it would be fair to ask Santander to reimburse the funds lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman