DRN-2228238
The complaint
Mr N complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on his 
commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr N was involved in an accident and decided to claim for his repairs though the other 
drivers insurer. Two months later, he changed his mind as the other insurer said Mr N was 
at fault, based on CCTV evidence. Haven also reviewed this and held Mr N at fault. 
Mr N had already had an estimate for repairs from his own garage. Haven reviewed this and 
offered Mr N a cash settlement based on what its approved garage would charge. Mr N 
accepted this but later complained that it didnt cover all the repair costs at his own garage. 
Mr N was also unhappy that his policy wasnt cancelled whilst his car was undriveable, and 
then that it was cancelled when he missed a payment. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
delay in the claim had been caused by Mr N first claiming through the other insurer. She 
thought Haven had reasonably reviewed the evidence before deciding to hold Mr N at fault. 
She thought Mr N had agreed to Havens settlement and it was his choice to use his own 
garage. She thought it was fair for Haven to offer Mr N what it would have been charged by 
its approved garage. She didnt think Mr N had told Haven he wanted to cancel his policy. 
Mr N replied that he wanted his complaint reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N was unhappy that hes been held at fault for the accident. I can see that there were 
conflicting accounts of what happened. I havent seen that hes complained to Haven first 
about this. But I can see that our investigator has considered this in her view, and I agree 
with her conclusions. 
It isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy? And has it treated Mr N the same as someone else in his 
position. 
Haven is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr N to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr N has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. 
I can see from its file that Haven considered both drivers versions of events, the engineering 
reports and the CCTV footage provided by the other insurer. It thought the latter showed that 
Mr N was at fault and it accepted liability on his behalf. So I think Haven reasonably 
investigated the claim and considered the evidence available before making its decision. I 
think its entitled to do this by the policy terms and conditions. So I cant say it made an error. 
Mr N provided his garages engineering report and photographs of his car to Haven. Havens 
engineer reviewed these and calculated what its approved garage would charge to make the 
repairs. It then offered this amount to Mr N, less his policy excess and the VAT element, in 
settlement of his claim. Mr N accepted this offer. I cant see that there were any excessive 
delays in Havens handling of the claim and making its payment to Mr N. 
Mr N later said his garage said this amount wouldnt cover the repair costs. But I cant hold 
Haven responsible for this. I think it was reasonable for Haven to apply its approved 
repairers rates and discounts in calculating the repair costs. I wouldnt expect it to pay Mr N 
more than it would be charged by its approved garage. Mr N accepted its offer. And it was 
Mr Ns choice to use his own garage rather than an approved repairer. So I cant say that 
Haven acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Haven told Mr N that it would refund the VAT element on production of a VAT invoice for the 
repairs. I cant see that Mr N did this even though his repairs were made long before the 
current situation. However, if Mr N is able to provide a VAT invoice, then I expect Haven to 
honour its offer. 
Ive read Havens file and I cant see that Mr N told it he wanted to cancel his policy. So I 
cant say that Haven was responsible for further payments being taken from his account 
whilst his car was undriveable. In any case, I think that, in keeping with the policy terms and 
conditions, as a fault claim had been made, then the full premium was payable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman