DRN-3518582
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland (BOI) falsely 
represented to him that he was liable for mortgage repayments after his bankruptcy. To 
settle the complaint, Mr H wants BOI to reimburse the mortgage repayments he made over a 
nine-year period, approximately £184,000, plus interest and legal costs.
Mr H is represented in the complaint by solicitors, but for the sake of clarity I will refer to 
Mr H throughout.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
The history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence so theres no need for me to 
repeat the details here. In addition our decisions are published, so its important that I dont 
include here any information that might lead Mr H to be identified. Im also required to 
determine the complaint in a way that is informal, so I wont be setting out detailed legal 
arguments  although Ive taken note of all the detailed arguments put forward by Mr H.
Briefly, in 2005 Mr H purchased a leasehold property with the assistance of a mortgage from 
BOI. Subsequently Mr H was made bankrupt twice, in 2009 and 2010. Mr Hs interest in the 
property was transferred to the Official Receiver in his first bankruptcy. In his second 
bankruptcy, the Trustee in Bankruptcy disclaimed the lease (in other words, declined to 
include it in the bankruptcy estate, the most likely reason being that the property was at that 
time in negative equity and so was a liability, rather than an asset).
Mr H remained in occupation of the property and continued to pay the mortgage instalments 
to BOI. The bank had a possession order on the property, which the court granted leave to 
enforce in 2014. However, possession wasnt taken and Mr H remained in occupation of the 
property. BOI also paid arrears of ground rent and service charges and added the cost of 
this (over £50,000) to the mortgage debt.
Mr H says that it was only in 2020 when he consulted solicitors that he was first told that he 
hadnt been liable for the mortgage since his first bankruptcy. Mr H asked BOI to reimburse 
all the payments hed made under the mortgage for the previous nine years. The bank didnt 
uphold the complaint, so it was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He found that, 
although the lease had been disclaimed, this didnt extinguish the mortgage. The investigator 
noted Mr H had enjoyed occupation of the property for the previous nine years and so 
ultimately had received a benefit. It was therefore unreasonable to expect the bank to 
reimburse the mortgage payments.
Mr H disagreed, arguing the bank had acted unlawfully and in breach of regulations. He 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Provisional decision of 11 May 2022
I issued a provisional decision in which I reached the following conclusions:
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a court, so we 
dont decide things in the same way a court would do. Although we are required to 
take account of the law, the over-arching principle that governs our decisions  as 
laid down by the Financial Service and Markets Act 2000  is to determine what is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and with a minimum of formality. We are 
also not a regulator, and so have no power to enforce regulatory compliance on BOI; 
that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Ive noted all the points Mr H has made and given careful consideration to his 
contention that BOI has acted in breach of insolvency rules and FCA regulations by 
continuing to accept mortgage repayments from him when (he says) the bank knew it 
had no right to ask him to make repayments. I have no power to determine whether 
or not the bank has acted unlawfully or contrary to legislation, rules or regulations  
only a court or the regulator can determine this. 
My role is to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. 
Mr Hs argument is that, notwithstanding he has been in occupation of the property 
for nine years, he shouldnt have to make any payment for this, and so it is only fair 
that he should be reimbursed for the payments hes made towards the mortgage. 
However, I dont think it would be either fair or reasonable for Mr H to have had 
continuous occupation of the property without payment. 
Therefore, I think that in any claim for reimbursement by Mr H, there is a reasonable 
argument that any mortgage repayment that he thinks might have been paid in error 
should be off-set against the rent Mr H would have had to have paid over the same 
period to occupy the property, pursuant to the common law principle of equitable 
accounting. I dont think there is any reasonable argument that a formerly bankrupt 
person isnt required to pay for the property in which they live. Ive looked at rental 
figures for the development in which Mr Hs property is situated going back several 
years. At the lower end, the rent is £1,500 per month, up to £2,600 per month, for 
two-bedroomed properties. 
Furthermore, BOI isnt under any obligation to offer unsolicited advice to Mr H. Bank 
staff dealing with the administration of mortgage accounts would not be required 
either to have knowledge of the Insolvency Rules or to give Mr H advice about them. 
In conclusion, Ive taken note of the arguments Mr H has made about why BOI wasnt 
entitled to claim mortgage payments from him. However, on any interpretation of 
what is fair and reasonable, the corollary to Mr Hs argument is that if he wasnt required to pay the mortgage, he would then have been required either to move out 
and pay rent somewhere else, or to pay rent to live in the property from 2011. 
In this context, it is unclear whether Mr H actually lives in the property. In submitting 
his complaint, Mr H also included an email exchange with the local authority about 
council tax payments, but this relates to a different property and a different 
mortgagee is mentioned. Therefore it appears Mr H owns at least one other property, 
and on his mortgage application Mr H told BOI he was going to use yet another 
property as a buy-to-let. However, if Mr B was renting out the property mortgaged to 
BOI, then it could be also argued that it would be fair and reasonable for him to 
account to BOI for all rents he received if, as he states, he wasnt liable for paying the 
mortgage.
Given this, taking into account all the circumstances and thinking about what is fair 
and reasonable, Im not persuaded that the complaint should be upheld.
Responses to the provisional decision
BOI had nothing further to add. Mr H has responded, reiterating his previous arguments, 
which I summarise below:
although Mr H accepts that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator, the key 
to determining what is fair and reasonable is the banks lack of regulatory compliance;
when Mr H continued to make mortgage payments, BOI should have offered Mr H advice 
about his previous bankruptcy;
by passively accepting payments, the bank didnt act fairly or reasonably;
BOI deliberately acted without integrity because it withheld information from Mr H about 
the property being in negative equity when Mr H was made bankrupt; otherwise BOI 
would have sold the property in 2010;
whilst Mr H accepts that he was in occupation of the property, BOI abused its position by 
continuing to accept mortgage payments; any benefit he has received from 11 years of 
occupation of the property is therefore minimal compared with the wrongdoing of BOI;
consequently, it would be fair and reasonable for him be paid £186,000 by BOI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the case again from the start, Ive revisited my provisional decision and Ive 
looked at what Mr H has said in response. Having done so, I am not persuaded I should 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I will reiterate that the Financial Ombudsman Service has no regulatory function. So whilst 
Ive noted the points made about BOIs alleged failure to comply with regulations, that is a 
matter for the regulator, the FCA.
The information available to BOIs mortgage administration staff when accessing the 
mortgage account would not have suggested anything unusual about the account. 
Administrative staff are not legal or insolvency experts and they are under no obligation to 
offer unsolicited advice to customers, and if asked to give advice, they cannot give advice 
about areas of law that are outside their knowledge or expertise. So even if Mr H had raised 
the issue of his prior bankruptcy with the administrative staff, it would not have resulted in 
him being offered advice about his legal or insolvency status.As far as the allegation about BOI withholding information about the property being in 
negative equity in 2010 is concerned, Mr H could easily have found out for himself the value 
of the property in 2010 and how much was owing on the mortgage. This wasnt information 
that was, as Mr H suggests, withheld from him.
Mr H continues to maintain that, not only should he have been allowed to live in the property 
free of charge since 2010, he should also be paid £186,000 by BOI. This would not, in my 
opinion, be fair or reasonable. If Mr H rejects my decision he will, of course, be free to 
pursue his grievances against BOI in court. Should Mr H decide to do this, the court would 
be able to consider whether an equitable set-off of market rent for his occupation of the 
property against any mortgage payments Mr H is claiming BOI owes him would be 
appropriate. 
I dont have any power to make any such determination. But overall, I find Mr Hs position 
that he believes he was entitled to free accommodation from 2010 at the expense of BOI 
plus a refund of all mortgage payments he made from that date is not a reasonable stance 
for him to take. Given this, I find no basis upon which I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman