DRN-3087174
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Newline Insurance Company Limited declined her pet insurance claim. 
My references to Newline include its agents.
What happened
Mrs P took out pet insurance for her puppy, insured by Newline. The policy started 
24 February 2020 and covered vet fees up to £4,000 each policy year subject to the policy 
terms.
Mrs P says in the early hours of 10 March 2020 her puppy had a fight with her adult dog 
which resulted in her puppy falling off the bed and the older dog falling on her puppy. She 
says after a few hours the puppy had problems with her legs so she called the vets and was 
given an appointment the same morning.
On 10 March the vet noted the puppy had developed partial paralysis, took x-rays and gave 
the puppy an anti-inflammatory injection. A follow up vet appointment was arranged for two 
weeks later for further injections. When Mrs P took her puppy back to the vets the previous 
vet had left. The vet she then saw referred the puppy to a specialist vet practice for 
neurological tests. Mrs P says she phoned Newline to check the costs would be covered and 
was told they would be. After the tests the specialist vet said very sadly it would be best for 
the puppy to be put to sleep. Mrs P claimed for the vet costs, she paid the specialist vet 
about £5,000 and about £500 to her regular vet.
Newline declined the claim. The claim form completed by the vet said the puppys condition 
was first noticed by Mrs P on 3 March 2020. Newline said that meant the puppys condition 
had been noticed within the first 15 days of the policy start date so under the policy terms 
there was no cover.
Mrs P complained to us. She said the vet had made a mistake with the date and before the 
10 March incident her puppy had been healthy. The vet told her the wrong date was a 
misunderstanding but wouldnt change the document. She wants Newline to pay the claim to 
the policy limit.
Ultimately our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She didnt think it fair for 
Newline to rely on the 3 March 2020 date in the claim form when the date hadnt been 
mentioned anywhere else by the vets.
Newline disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said as well as the claim form 
the puppys clinical notes also showed Mrs P described the dogs symptoms as starting 
before 10 March 2020.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. I said:
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P. I know her claim is for a large amount. But on the evidence 
I have at present Im intending to not uphold the complaint.
I have to decide whether Newline fairly and reasonably declined the claim and I think it did. 
Ill explain why.
The policy excludes:
Vet fees to treat illnesses, injuries or accidents that occur within the first 15 days of 
the original cover start date of your policy.
The policy documents are clear about the exclusion. The policy schedule says cover for vet 
fees for illnesses and accidents starts on 10 March 2020.
Newline doesnt dispute that Mrs Ps puppy was first seen by the vet for the condition on 
10 March. But the important issue is whether the puppys symptoms were first noticed within 
the first 15 days of the start of the policy which was 24 February 2020.
The claim form which gave the 3 March 2020 date as being when the symptoms were first 
noticed by Mrs P was completed by Mrs Ps regular vet for their costs. It wasnt completed 
by the specialist vet which has been said in correspondence.
Ive seen the letter from the regular vet practices operations manager who said she was 
present with the vet when Mrs P bought in the puppy on 10 March. She recalled Mrs P said 
the puppy had been playing roughly with another dog in early hours on 10 March, the larger 
dog jumped onto the puppy who seemed fine but a few hours later the puppy was lame 
showing full reluctance to walk and Mrs P called to make an appointment immediately. The 
operations manager said it was clear the puppy couldnt walk and she had an x-ray which 
was unremarkable.
So the operations manager at the regular vet practise can give first hand evidence that 
Mrs P told its vet the puppys symptoms started on 10 March. If the claim form date of 
3 March was the only evidence that the symptoms were earlier I would be likely to think the 
claim form date was probably an error.
However, Newline has also raised that there is other evidence to support the symptoms 
appeared earlier than 10 March. The clinical notes from the specialist vet dated 26 March 
2020 say:
CURRENT PROBLEM
O noticed this start of March
Unsteady on her legs- occasionally fell over
Would get back up again- walking normally
HAD SEEMED MORE STIFF IN THE MORNING
10 March  not able to get up or walk. Alert but not got strength to get
Steroids
No improvement
O feels has deteriorated
Nor been able to walk at all since 10 MarchI think Newline can reasonably understand that the evidence from the clinical notes shows 
the puppys symptoms started earlier than 10 March. The notes sadly say that the puppy 
went from being unsteady on her feet and occasionally falling in early March to her not being 
able to get up or walk by 10 March.
The specialist vet clinical notes also say that after the tests the findings were consistent with 
a congenital/developmental leukoencephalopathy. Thats a progressive neurological 
disorder that effects the central nervous system so the symptoms would get progressively 
worse, as described in the clinical notes.
Mrs P says her puppys problems were caused by a trauma to her spin on 10 March but Ive 
seen no vet evidence to support that. The regular vet notes for 10 March say the x-rays 
show no obvious trauma and the operations manager says the x-rays were unremarkable.
Given the overall evidence I think Newline reasonably understood the puppys symptoms 
started before 10 March 2020, so within the first 15 days from the policy start date. That 
means theres no cover under the policy.
Mrs P says that in calls to Newline it said her claim would be covered. But at that stage 
Newline didnt know there would be evidence the symptoms had started within the first 
15 days of the policy.
I think Newline fairly declined the claim.
Responses to my provisional decision and further information
Newline didnt respond. Mrs P didnt agree to my provisional decision. In summary she said:
shed never mentioned that her puppys condition started on 3 March 2020. She sent 
an email from the operations manager at her regular vet practice from June 2020 
which said they first saw the puppy on 10 March 2020 and was told shed developed 
symptoms that day after playfighting with another dog
the vet who did the first appointment is no longer at her regular vet practice to 
confirm what was said but she was told her puppy had trauma 
Newline changed its reason to decline the claim which wasnt fair
she had photos and video to show her puppy was well and not showing symptoms 
before 10 March 2020 which she could provide.
Our investigator on my behalf told Mrs P that, as Id explained in my provisional decision, the 
issue was that as well as the 3 March date being given in the claim form by her regular vet 
the specialist vet clinical notes also gave details about how her puppys symptoms started 
before the 10 March. We asked Mrs P if the specialist vet could tell us the source of the 
information in its clinical notes. We also said Mrs P could provide the photos and video if she 
wished, which she sent.
Mrs P then sent us an email from her specialist vet practice. It said its clinical notes reflected 
what Mrs P told the specialist vet in a phone call on 26 March 2020. Mrs P had later told 
them the dates were incorrect. It had told Mrs P that under its regulators rules it cannot 
amend clinical notes and its clinical notes are a true representation of the phone call. 
In response to the specialist vet practice letter Mrs P said shed meant her puppy symptoms 
were worse since 10 March 2020, shed been extremely upset when she spoke to the specialist vet practice and there could have been miscommunication.
Mrs P (and her husband who was also on the call) consented to the specialist vet practice 
releasing a copy of the call recording of 26 March 2020 to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The new evidence Ive received hasnt changed my mind and I still think Newline fairly and 
reasonably declined the claim. 
Ive seen the video and photo of Mrs Ps puppy. The video is when the puppy was still with 
her litter. As Mrs P told the specialist vet she had the puppy just before Christmas the video 
is likely to be from around that time. While the video doesnt show any obvious problems 
with the puppys movement its not evidence that shows the puppys symptoms started on 
10 March. Its not clear when the photo of Mrs Ps puppy was taken. But even if it was in 
early March 2020 as Mrs P told the specialist vet that in early March her puppy sometimes 
fell over and then walked normally again the photo isnt evidence that the symptoms only 
started on 10 March.
Ive listened to the 26 March 2020 call between the specialist vet and Mrs P. At the start of 
the call the vet asked Mrs P what was the first thing she noticed that wasnt quite right with 
her puppy. Mrs P said her puppy seemed to fall over and was unsteady but Mrs P thought 
shed been a bit boisterous with her other dog. The vet asked when that was, Mrs P said the 
first time she noticed her puppy fall over was a week before she went to the vet. She said 
she went to the vet on 10 March as that morning her puppy went out to the toilet and her 
legs went. Mrs P confirmed the puppys problems started at the start of March and she 
occasionally fell over and was then walking normally. The vet asked whether on 10 March 
the problem was worse and Mrs P said that it seemed overnight that her puppy couldnt 
walk. She went on to say her puppy hadnt been able to walk at all since 10 March. Later in 
the call the vet explained the examination hed done on the puppy and what tests he would 
be doing. 
Having listened to the call Im satisfied that the specialist vet clinical notes are a true 
representation of what Mrs P told the vet. While I understand Mrs P would have been 
worried about her puppy she sounds calm and the vet asked her a clear question about 
when she first noticed problems and Mrs P was clear in saying she first noticed the problems 
a week before 10 March. Im not persuaded by Mrs Ps suggestion that she 
miscommunicated the information about dates to the specialist vet.
Im satisfied that Newline can reasonably understand that the evidence from the specialist 
vet notes shows the puppys symptoms started earlier than 10 March and that information 
came from Mrs P.
The vet from the regular vet practice put the start date for the symptoms as 3 March 2020. 
Although Mrs P says she never gave that date to either vet it is further evidence that the 
symptoms started within the first 15 days of the policy and ties in with the timescale of a 
week before the 10 March that she gave the specialist vet. Ive seen the email from the 
regular vet practices operations manager saying Mrs P told them her puppys symptoms 
started on 10 March. But given the overall evidence about when the symptoms started in 
these circumstances I think Newline fairly declined the claim on the basis that the symptoms 
were more likely than not to have started within the first 15 days of the policy. That means 
the claim fell within the policy exclusion and theres no cover for Mrs Ps claim.Mrs P says Newline was unfair to change the reason for its decline. But Newlines reason for 
declining the claim in its final response letter to Mrs Ps complaint was that her puppys 
symptoms had been noticed within the first 15 days of the policy start date. I think Newline 
acted fairly in relying on that reason.
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont uphold the 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman