DRN-4236426
The complaint
Miss P complains that the time taken by Scottish Equitable Plc, trading as Aegon, to 
exercise its discretion in the payment of some pension death benefits was excessive. As a 
result she says that her share of the benefits was subject to income tax.
What happened
Miss P was a minor at the time of her fathers death. She has been assisted in making this 
complaint by her mother. But in this decision, for ease, I will generally refer to all 
communication as having been with, and from, Miss P herself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2023. In that decision I explained 
why I thought that the complaint should be upheld, and what Aegon needed to do to put 
things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
The father of Miss P, who I will call Mr X, sadly passed away in March 2020. He had 
a valid will that had been completed in August 2000, before the birth of Miss P. The 
will left the entire estate of Mr X to his mother. The will was administered by Mr Xs 
sister. At the time of Mr Xs death, the executor informed Aegon that he had two 
dependent children, Miss P and her half-sister who I will call Miss Y. Miss Y was also 
a minor.
Mr X held pension benefits with Aegon. Under the terms of his plan Aegon was 
responsible for determining to whom any death benefits should be paid. It doesnt 
seem that Mr X had provided Aegon with any expression of his wishes in that regard 
before his death. Aegon received Mr Xs death certificate in May 2020 and sold his 
pension investments the following week in line with the plan rules. It then started its 
investigations to inform its decision about the allocation of any death benefits.
Aegon wrote to Miss P, and Miss Y, in June 2020. Around that time Aegon was made 
aware that Mr X was also the father to a third adult daughter, who I will call Ms Z. So 
Aegon wrote to Ms Z asking for further details of her claim on the death benefits. But 
Aegon didnt receive the requested information until December 2020. Aegon has told 
us that from that time it had all the information it needed from the potential 
beneficiaries.
Previously, in September 2020, the executor of Mr Xs estate had told Aegon that 
Mr Xs mother intended to obtain a Deed of Variation to the will that would provide for 
each of his daughters to receive an inheritance instead. Aegon asked for a copy of 
the Deed once it had been completed.
There was then an extended period of time between September 2020 and 
March 2022 before the Deed of Variation was provided. Initially an unsigned copy 
was sent to Aegon in March 2022, before a signed copy was received by the firm on 
5 April. But Aegon accepts that it then failed to complete its decision process for 
some time. It didnt issue settlement forms to Miss P until August 2022, and received 
the completed forms back early the following month. Payment of the benefits was 
made to Miss P on 27 October 2022, but given more than two years had passed 
since Mr Xs death, that payment was subject to the deduction of income tax.
Miss P complained to Aegon about the delays, and that they had caused the 
payment to become subject to income tax. Aegon accepted that it had caused some 
delays after the receipt of the Deed of Variation. But it said that the Deed was only 
received after the two-year period had expired. So it said its delays hadnt been the 
cause of the income tax liability. Aegon paid Miss P £400 for the inconvenience she 
had been caused and some interest for the delayed payment. Miss P didnt accept 
that offer so brought her complaint to us.
As I have explained earlier in this decision, there are a number of different parties 
that have been involved in the matters of this complaint. But this complaint only 
relates to the benefits that Aegon paid to Miss P. It isnt right that I should make 
findings about delays caused by the other parties. So here I will only look at the 
actions Miss P took, or needed to take, and those similarly taken by Aegon in relation 
to the payment of her benefits.
When Mr X sadly died, he left pension benefits with Aegon that it needed to 
distribute. Under the relevant terms of Mr Xs pension plan it was for Aegon to decide 
how, and to whom, those benefits should be paid. And Aegon confirmed that in an 
email to the executor of Mr Xs estate in September 2020 when it confirmed a phone 
call it had by saying;
 
It is Aegon as the scheme administrator to decide who will be the 
beneficiary(ies), we discussed who can be considered a potential beneficiary 
under our scheme rules and what individuals we class a dependant.
And Aegon provided the executor with some further information about how it would 
reach its decision in an email sent in April 2021 that said;
Although the pension does not usually form part of an estate, we'd like to 
have a copy of will and any associated deeds of variations as we factor these 
in when we make our decision.
From the evidence I have seen, Aegon appears to have concluded, by 
December 2020 at the latest, that there were three beneficiaries to whom it should 
pay the benefits  Mr Xs three daughters. It saw banking evidence that Mr X was 
making regular monthly payments to the mothers of his two youngest daughters. And 
it had, what seems to me to be, plausible testimony from Ms Z that he was making 
regular cash payments to her to assist with her day to day living expenses.
It seems to me entirely reasonable, in the exercise of its discretion, that Aegon would 
want to gather sufficient information about the family circumstances of Mr X to inform 
its decision. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Aegon to request copies of 
Mr Xs will, and to seek more information about the proposed Deed of Variation.
It seems that the completion of the Deed was protracted. My understanding is that 
Mr Xs mother sought to link the completion of the Deed with an agreement to 
provide her with formal access arrangements to one of his daughters. So Aegon 
wasnt provided with the signed Deed until more than two years after it had been 
notified of Mr Xs death.But I think there is a very important distinction between the documentation that 
Aegon might prefer to receive, and that it must receive, before exercising its 
discretion. As I have noted above the pension benefits do not form part of Mr Xs 
estate, and so do not need to be distributed in the same manner. If they did form part 
of the estate, Aegon could not have paid them until the Deed was complete.
It seems to me that, from the outset, the information that Aegon was given indicated 
that Mr Xs mother wished to use his estate to provide for his three daughters. 
I havent seen anything that makes me think there was any suggestion that there 
would be additional family members, or dependents, identified at a later date. And it 
seems that the terms of the Deed were relatively straightforward, in passing benefits 
to the three daughters. Although there might have been a lack of clarity at the start 
about the proportions in which the inheritance might be divided, I dont think that 
prevented Aegon from reaching its own, discretionary, decision.
At the end of the day, the way in which the inheritance was divided by the Deed of 
Variation was only a representation of the wishes of Mr Xs mother. It would be 
improper to say that distribution must be followed by Aegon. It was entirely for Aegon 
to make its own assessment of how the death benefits should be divided between 
the parties it identified as being appropriate recipients.
So I dont think Aegon treated Miss P fairly by delaying its decision about the 
payment of the benefits arising from Mr Xs pension plan. I havent seen anything that 
makes me think Aegon had any reasonable expectation that the final completion of 
the Deed of Variation would provide material new evidence to influence its decision-
making process. I think Mr Xs mothers intentions were clear from the outset, and it 
was entirely for Aegon to decide to what extent her proposals should influence its 
decision. But I think that Aegon had sufficient information to make its decision by the 
end of 2020.
And I have noted that benefits from two other pension providers, and an occupational 
death in service payment, were made to Miss P and her half siblings much earlier 
than the payment from Aegon. Whist it is natural that each provider should have its 
own processes and evidence requirements, I think the earlier payments from three 
other parties might suggest that Aegon fell outside what might be considered normal 
industry practice.
It is reasonable that, after acquiring sufficient information, Aegon should be allowed a 
period of time for its decision to be made. And then there is the process of issuing 
claim letters and receiving a reply. So I think it reasonable, based on the timeline that 
Aegon has suggested would be applicable in 2022, that Miss P should have received 
her payment two months later  that is by 1 March 2021. And receiving the payment 
at that time would have meant no income tax would be deducted.
As I said earlier, Aegon has already paid some interest to Miss P. I will take account 
of that in the redress I propose below. And Aegon has paid Miss P £400 for the 
inconvenience she was caused. I think that award is in line with what I would 
normally expect in circumstances such as these, so I am not making any further 
award in respect of the inconvenience caused to Miss P.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Miss P said that she agreed with my provisional findings. Aegon did not 
agree and provided us with some further comments. Although I am only summarising here 
what Aegon has said, I want to confirm that I have read, and carefully considered, the entire 
response.Aegon says that it has reviewed its processes in relation to what happened here. It says that 
it still thinks that its approach of waiting for the completed Deed of Variation was the correct 
thing to do. Since it held no Expression of Wish for Mr X it needed to consider all the 
available information to allow it to exercise its discretion.
Aegon says that when it first received information about potential beneficiaries from Mr Xs 
executor there was no mention of a third daughter, Ms Z. So it says the Deed of Variation 
then became a key piece of evidence within its death recording process. It says that without 
the Deed it couldnt make a fair decision. And that meant payment could not be made to 
Miss P before the two-year mark, meaning that it had no choice but to deduct income tax 
from the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also 
carefully considered the submissions that have been made by Miss P and by Aegon. Where 
the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
And again I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to 
regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Having thought carefully about the additional comments made by Aegon I am not persuaded 
that I should change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. But I would like to 
take this opportunity to provide some further explanations on the points that were raised.
As I said in my provisional decision, it is entirely right that Aegon should gather whatever 
information it thinks is necessary to inform its discretionary decision making process. In 
making its decision Aegon isnt bound by the Will of Mr X, by any expression of wish that he 
might have completed, or in fact by any other documentation. Aegon is entirely free to 
assess any information it obtains, and reach its own assessment of who should benefit from 
Mr Xs pension savings.
I understand that the completion of the Deed of Variation was protracted. But as was 
explained to Aegon at the time, that delay wasnt due to any suggestion that Miss P, Miss Y, 
and Ms Z, werent the daughters of Mr X. I accept that in the initial information sent to 
Aegon, Ms Z wasnt identified as a potential beneficiary. But I think that is simply a reflection 
of the complexities of modern-day relationships, rather than any suggestion of a dispute over 
the authenticity of Ms Zs claim. And the existence of Ms Zs claim, and the acceptance of its 
validity by the executor of Mr X, followed relatively shortly afterwards.
In my provisional decision I made the distinction between the information that Aegon might 
like to hold before making a decision, and the information I think that it needed to hold. In 
cases such as these it could be argued that there might be reasons to wait for an indefinite amount of time before making a decision on the beneficiaries, and the proportions of any 
payment that should be made. That is clearly an untenable situation.
I dont think that, by December 2020, Aegon had any reasonable expectation that it would 
receive further information about other possible beneficiaries of Mr Xs pension savings. 
I think that by that time Aegon had a clear understanding of the complex family relationships, 
and that Mr Xs mother, who was the sole beneficiary of his will, wished to make provision 
instead for Mr Xs daughters. So I still think it would have been proper for Aegon to exercise 
its discretion at that point.
So the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision remain unchanged. I think that 
Aegon should have paid the benefits to Miss P by 1 March 2021. And receiving the payment 
at that time would have meant no income tax would be deducted. So Aegon needs to pay 
Miss P some compensation.
Putting things right
I think that Aegon should have paid the share of the pension benefits it determined were due 
to Miss P by 1 March 2021. That would mean that no income tax would have been deducted 
from the payment. So, to put things right, Aegon should;
Pay compensation to Miss P equivalent to the income tax that was deducted from the 
payment made to her on 27 October 2022.
Pay simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum on the total amount that should have 
been paid to Miss P for the period between 1 March 2021 and 27 October 2022. 
Aegon may deduct from this amount the total interest it has already paid to Miss P for 
the period between May and October 2022.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Aegon to take off tax from this interest. Aegon must give 
Miss P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ps complaint and direct Scottish Equitable Plc, trading 
as Aegon, to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman