DRN-2310346
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In 2018, four bank transfers were paid into Mr Os account, then sent on shortly afterwards.
Barclays then received notifications from the sending banks that the four transfers into 
Mr Os account had been reported as fraudulent. The people whod sent the money said 
they were buying goods, but that the seller had instead blocked them and never delivered 
the goods.
Barclays closed Mr Os account and registered a misuse of facility marker against him with 
CIFAS. It didnt ask Mr O about what happened, nor tell him about the marker.
Mr O says that following this, he had other accounts closed and had trouble opening a new 
one. In 2020, he found out about the CIFAS marker and complained.
Mr O explained that hed made friends with someone he met at his place of education. They 
had later asked Mr O to receive money on their behalf and send it on, saying they didnt 
have their own account and needed his help. Mr O explained that he saw this person as a 
friend, and it didnt occur to him that he could be helping them to do something wrong. He 
explained that after his account was closed, this person distanced themselves from Mr O 
and then blocked him.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. He said that 
since Barclays didnt investigate the matter at the time, he couldnt be satisfied that Mr O had 
deliberately committed fraud here. He found Mr Os testimony to be plausible, especially 
given his circumstances, and he couldnt see any good reason to doubt him. He asked 
Barclays to remove the CIFAS marker.
Barclays didnt agree. It reiterated that the other banks had confirmed the transfers were 
fraudulent. It questioned why Mr O had waited two years to complain. It did offer to return the 
27 pence left over in his account.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
In order to register this CIFAS marker, Barclays needed to have more than just a suspicion 
or concern. It needed to have reasonable grounds to believe that Mr O had intentionally 
attempted or committed fraud, and that the evidence was rigorous enough to support this 
being reported to the authorities.
Both sides accept that Mr O consented to the transfers, and both sides now understand that 
the transfers were fraudulent. The question is whether Mr O knew they were fraudulent at 
the time.
At the time of the incident, it does not look like Barclays made any significant investigation 
into whether Mr O knew that he was receiving fraudulent funds. For example, it didnt speak 
to Mr O back in 2018 to get his side of the story. This is a point of concern. It is difficult for 
me to see how Barclays could be satisfied that Mr O intentionally tried to commit fraud 
without really looking into the matter or trying to clarify the situation. It also means that I have 
no previous testimony to compare Mr Os current testimony to, since Barclays just reported 
him instead of speaking to him. I dont think that fulfils the criteria of the evidence being so 
rigorous that Barclays could confidently report Mr O to the authorities.
Barclays says it relied on the reports from the sending banks. But I dont think thats good 
enough in this case. Barclays registered this CIFAS marker, not the other banks. So 
Barclays needed to be satisfied of its own accord that Mr O had intentionally tried to commit 
fraud. Barclays should be well aware that sometimes people have been tricked into 
unwittingly forwarding on fraudulent funds  not least people of Mr Os young age. Here, 
I dont think that the sending banks reports were sufficient to conclude that Mr O definitely 
knew he was passing on fraudulent money.
Mr Os testimony has been plausible and consistent throughout this complaint. Hes been 
open about what happened and about his naivety at the time. I dont think I have any good 
reason to disbelieve what hes told us. And while of course Mr O should have been more 
suspicious about what he was being asked to do, it seems very plausible that someone of 
his age and inexperience could have trusted someone they thought was a friend.  
I understand Barclays may find it disappointing that Mr O no longer has a history of his 
messages with the former friend. But they messaged using a common and popular app that 
automatically deletes messages very quickly. So its unsurprising that the record of the 
messages no longer exists. Again, I think this really comes down to Barclays not 
investigating things with Mr O at the time. 
Lastly, Barclays questioned why Mr O didnt complain earlier. But it looks like Barclays didnt 
actually tell Mr O about the CIFAS marker in 2018. It seems that the first time he discovered 
it was in 2020, at which point he complained. I find it unsurprising that Mr O didnt complain 
about the marker until he actually knew about it.I am, of course, conscious that it is also a plausible possibility that Mr O intentionally tried to 
commit fraud here. But that alone is not a good enough basis on which to register this CIFAS 
marker. Barclays needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern about the possibility 
of fraud. It needed to be able to reasonably show that this was fraud, and not merely a case 
of Mr O being used or misled. But because of its lacking investigation at the time, I dont 
think its able to show that now. So I am not persuaded that Barclays had sufficient grounds 
to apply this CIFAS marker, nor can I safely conclude that the marker is fair.
Putting things right
I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to remove the CIFAS marker in dispute.
I also direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to return what was left of Mr Os own funds, adding 
simple interest at the rate of 8% simple a year to make up for the time he was without his 
money. I understand the amount left over was 27p.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Os complaint, and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC 
to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman