DRN-3307311
The complaint
Mr G, through a representative, says Loans 2 Go Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr G took out an 18-month instalment loan for £570 from Loans 2 Go on 1 June 2019. The
monthly repayment was £130.28 and the total repayable was £2345.04.
He says he was in financial difficulty when he applied and had Loans 2 Go carried out
proportionate checks it would have seen he couldnt afford the loan.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said from the lenders
affordability checks it ought to have realised Mr G wouldnt be left with enough money to
cover any seasonal and unplanned costs over the 18-month term. So there was a risk the
loan would not be sustainably affordable for Mr G.
Loans 2 Go disagreed. It said its assessment showed Mr G would be left with a monthly
disposable income of £337.88 which was enough to meet the loan repayments  and it had
added a 10% buffer to allow for any unexpected bills.
As an agreement wasnt reached, the case was passed to me to make a decision. I reached 
the same conclusion as the adjudicator, but I relied on different evidence and made different 
findings. So I issued a provisional decision - an extract follows and forms part of this final 
decision. I asked for any comments or new evidence by 7 February 2022.
Extract from my provisional decision 
I can see Loans 2 Go asked for some information from Mr G before it approved the loan. It
asked for his monthly income and expenditure. It completed an income verification
check. It increased his declared expenditure and added a buffer for unplanned costs. It
checked Mr Gs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit
history. From these checks combined Loans 2 Go concluded the loan was affordable for
Mr G.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont think Loans 2 Go made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
From the credit check it completed Loans 2 Go could see that Mr G had at least seven active
credit accounts and was making monthly repayments of around £626 (assuming a minimum
payment of 3% on his credit card balances). This was already a significant percentage of his
income. He had declared this to be £1,875 and Loans 2 Go says its system defined the
minimum income needed for the loan to be affordable to be £1,866.46.
Giving the loan put Mr G in the position where he would need to commit around 40% of his
net income to credit repayments. I think the lender ought to have realised that this meant
there was a high risk Mr G would be unable to sustainably repay the loan over an 18-month
time period. And it was most likely he would need to borrow to repay it or suffer some other
kind of financial harm.
There was already evidence from the credit check that Mr G was having problems managing
his money. His existing credit accounts were up-to-date, but he had taken out at least 31
short-term loans since the start of 2016, as well as a number of longer-term loans. So I think
it should have been clear to Loans 2 Go that Mr G was in a harmful cycle of borrowing to
repay. He had settled his most recent short-term loan less than two months before this
application so I can see no grounds for the lender to think his financial instability was
historic.
I have thought about the lenders response to the adjudicators assessment. But it seems to
have only considered the pounds and pence affordability, and not whether there was a risk
Mr G would be unable to repay this loan without borrowing to repay, or suffering other
adverse financial consequences. And to meet its regulatory obligations under CONC it had
to do this. CONC 5.2A.12(R) sets out:
The firm must consider the customers ability to make repayments under the agreement:
(1) as they fall due over the life of the agreement and, where the agreement is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period;
(2) out of, or using, one or more of the following:
(a) the customers income;
(b) income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income
received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person in
so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make
repayments under the agreement; and/or
(c) savings or other assets where the customer has indicated clearly an intention to repay
(wholly or partly) using them;
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to
make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation.
It follows I think Loans 2 Go was wrong to give the loan to Mr G.
I have not found any evidence that Loans 2 Go acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other
way.
I then set out what Loans 2 Go would need to do if I went on to uphold the complaint.
Mr G responded to my provisional decision before the deadline, accepting the findings and 
conclusion. Loans 2 Go did not respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
As neither party provided any new information or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision, it follows I have no reason to change the findings or outcome I set out in it. 
I find Loans 2 Go was wrong to give the loan to Mr G.Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt
have been provided to him.
So Loans 2 Go should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr G
made as payments towards the capital.
As reworking Mr Gs loan account will result in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then Loans 2 Go should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go should
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Gs complaint and Loans 2 Go Limited must put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman