DRN-3277678
The complaint
Mr E, through his representative, complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant), lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr E was approved for a £2,800 loan on 5 December 2016 repayable over 36 months at just 
over £118 each month. The total charge for credit was £1,453.32 and the loan was repaid in 
December 2019. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Avant had got it wrong. 
Mr E had declared an income of £1,283 (later verified by Avant to be that) and that his 
outgoings were £500 for a mortgage and bills and not other outgoings. 
Our adjudicator reviewed the credit search results Avant had obtained before lending to 
Mr E, copies of which have been sent to us, and she thought that as Mr E had taken around 
eight short term loans within three months of the Avant loan application, and all of his credit 
cards were at or near their credit limits, and had been at that level consistently for some 
time, then it was a concern. Added to which our adjudicator thought that as Mr E had given 
loan consolidation as the reason for the loan from Avant, she would have expected to see 
that Avant had ensured he was using its loan to reduce his monthly outgoings by repaying 
some of the other loans he had. But Avant was not able to do that. 
Our adjudicator thought that there was a significant risk Mr E would have had to borrow 
again to meet his existing and Avant commitment and that Avant needed to put things right 
for Mr E. 
Mr E accepted the outcome. Avant did not. Recently Avant has sent to us a table of all of the 
outstanding loans Mr E had at the time of his application to it, together with a list of all the 
credit cards (limits and balances and estimated minimum repayment figures) and made the 
following points. For Mr E to use the Avant loan to consolidate the loans (highlighted in 
green on its table) then Mr E would have replaced his monthly repayments of £364  28% of 
his income  to £118  9.2% of his income. Avant went on to say that would have released 
additional money each month for Mr E to be able to paydown and manage his credit card 
balances and repayments. Avant thought that by doing that Mr E would have had around 
£664 of disposable income to do that.  
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Avant completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr E  
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Mr E  wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Avant did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr E and that 
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Avant to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Es ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Avant had to think about whether repaying 
the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr E. In 
practice this meant that Avant had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Mr E undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Avant to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr E. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
Reviewing the credit search results Avant had sent us, Mr Es personal credit file which 
covers this period, Mr Es representatives compilation of Mr Es debt for the period, and 
Avants recent table of Mr Es debts for December 2016 it had compiled, I can see that the 
details are broadly similar. 
The first point is that Avants debt table compiled using the information it had about Mr Es 
credit commitments reveals a lot of debt and several loans. Mr E was not a person Id 
describe as being a high income earner. And so immediately I think that Avant understood Mr E had debt issues. 
Added to which, Mr E had made it clear that he wanted the Avant loan for debt consolidation 
and so its relatively clear Mr E knew he had debt issues and needed to reduce his outgoings 
each month in some way. For him that was applying for a further loan which I anticipate he 
considered a solution. And for Avant it was to lend to him responsibly. And I dont think it did 
that. 
I say this because on Avants own recent submissions demonstrate to me that even if the 
theory was correct, that with the Avant loan only, Mr E would have been able to address his 
credit card debt situation more successfully, then it has not demonstrated in the 
contemporaneous account notes it ever ensured that Mr E achieved that aim. Alternatively, 
satisfied itself that Mr E had in place the plans to achieve that outcome. One way, for 
instance, may have been to pay down some of the outstanding loans to which it has referred 
and are listed in that debt table. 
And without doing that, I think it left Mr E in this position: his verified income was £1,283, his 
declared outgoings (mortgage and utilities only) was £500. Avant had calculated he was 
spending around £364 a month on the other loans and knew Mr E had credit cards to repay 
too. The estimated minimum repayments on all those credit cards were (Avants 
calculations) around £85 each month. Then there would have been the £118 to pay to Avant. 
So that would have left Mr E with around £216 a month which a) does not account for food, 
transport to work and other inevitable outgoings likely faced by Mr E and b) does not actually 
leave Mr E with much (if anything) to use to tackle the credit card debt balances. 
I think that Avant knew of Mr Es situation in detail and ought not to have added to his 
indebtedness with a further large loan for a further 3 years.
I uphold Mr Es complaint.  
Putting things right
I think its fair that Mr E should only have to repay the money he borrowed and had the use 
of. So, I think Avant should refund all the interest and charges Mr E has paid on this loan. 
I note that Mr E repaid the loan some time ago.
While I think its fair that Mr Es credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
I dont think its fair that he should be disadvantaged by the business decision to lend to him 
irresponsibly. Therefore, under the circumstances, I think the business should also remove 
any negative payment information recorded on Mr Es credit file.To settle Mr Es complaint, Avant needs to do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr E received because of having been given the 
loan. The repayments Mr E made should be deducted from this amount. If this results 
in Mr E having paid more than he received, any overpayments should be refunded 
along with 8% simple interest (calculated from the date the overpayments were made 
until the date of settlement). 
remove any negative information recorded on Mr E credit file relating to this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint and I direct that AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
does as I have directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman