DRN-2619051
The complaint
Mr S complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card 
(Argos) unfairly closed his credit card account. 
What happened
Mr S held an Argos card for around five years. In May 2020, he received an email from 
Argos to say the account would be closed in two months as he hadnt been using it. The 
email said Mr S didnt need to do anything, and he could apply for a new account should he 
wish to do so. 
Mr S said he tried to use the card to make a purchase within the two-month period from 
receiving the email, but the card didnt work. So, he contacted Argos to ask why. 
Argos said the account had already been closed and they were unable to reactivate it. So, 
Mr S raised a complaint. He didnt think Argos acted fairly by closing the account before the 
two-month period ended. He also felt this had a negative impact on his credit file, as it was 
his oldest line of credit and he was planning on using it to make a future purchase. 
Argos said theyd acted reasonably by closing the account as it wasnt being used. They felt 
their email clearly stated Mr S would need to apply for a new account. And they hadnt said 
to Mr S that trying to use the card within the two-month period would reactivate the account. 
Mr S remained unhappy. He felt Argos shouldve compensated him for closing the account 
before they said they would, and because of the impact this had on him. As he remained 
unhappy, he brought a complaint to our service. 
An investigator here looked into the matter. He felt Argos applied the terms and conditions of 
the account reasonably given Mr S hadnt used the account. So, he didnt recommend the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mr S didnt agree. He responded to say Argos had mis-informed him about when the 
account would be closed, and hed tried to make a purchase during this time. He maintains 
Argos should compensate him for this. As no resolution could be agreed, the case has now 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point here is the terms and conditions of Mr Ss Argos card. This says Argos is 
entitled to close an account if its not being used. Mr S last used the card in 2017 so I think 
Argos acted fairly when deciding to close it under the terms and conditions. 
Ive considered the communication sent to Mr S in May 2020 about the account closure. 
Having done so, I agree this couldve been clearer as it says the account would be closed in 
two months, but Mr S was told it had been closed before then. And during this time, Mr S 
had tried to use the card for a purchase which he was unable to do, which I understand 
wouldve caused some frustration. 
But to give some balance to this dispute, the May 2020 email says what Mr S needed to do 
should he wish to hold an Argos card. The email didnt say that Mr S could use the card 
within the two-month period to reactivate the account. 
So overall, I agree the communication from Argos couldve been better about the account 
closure. But I dont agree the level of service Mr S received means hes due compensation. 
Mr S hadnt made a purchase on the account since 2017, so on balance I dont think he 
relied on this line of credit, so I dont think the early closure of the account impacted him. 
Had Argos done what they said theyd do, the account wouldve still closed meaning Mr S 
wouldve needed to apply for a new account with Argos should he have wanted to. 
Mr S also felt the account closure impacted his credit file. But, its important to explain the 
account was going to be closed in any event due to Mr S not using it  which Argos was 
entitled to do. So, whilst I accept Mr Ss frustration as I agree the communication couldve 
been better, I dont agree Argos should compensate him, for the reasons Ive set out above. 
I appreciate my decision will come to disappoint Mr S. But my decision ends what we  in 
attempting to resolve his dispute with Argos  can do for him. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman