DRN-3077317
The complaint
Mrs L complains that her bank, Lloyds Bank Plc failed to protect her from financial harm 
caused by a binary options scammer Xtraderfx.
  
What happened
Mrs L fell victim to an investment scam and disputes five payments made to Xtraderfx 
totalling £20,800 (taken between 15 October 2018 to 19 October 2018).
Mrs L feels that Lloyds bank ought to have done more to protect vulnerable people like her 
from falling victim to an investment scam. 
Lloyds say Mrs L contacted it in November 2018 to report that Xtraderfx were not allowing 
her to withdraw money from her trading account and requested assistance with chargeback 
claims. It agreed to attempt chargeback claims for Mrs L but the claims were defended by 
Xtraderfxs bank and it concluded it couldnt take the claims any further.
 
Unhappy with its response, Mrs L contacted this service.
 
One of our investigators concluded that Lloyds ought to have had concerns from Mrs Ls 
initial payment and ought to have done more to warn her that she had potentially fallen 
victim to a scam. He suggested that Lloyds return her disputed payments.
 
Lloyds didnt agree and in summary said:
The thought process of todays Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) appears to 
be used but the transactions occurred in 2018 and were made using a debit card so 
the CRM would not apply.
The bank can request a chargeback in some circumstances and binary options were 
potentially not covered by Visa when Mrs L completed her debit card payments to 
Xtraderfx.
In the 12 months leading up to the first payment to Xtraderfx, Mrs L made similar 
value transactions and is a high volume user of her debit card including online 
purchases often multiple per day. It concluded the transactions were not unusual. 
It would question whether Mrs L should be to blame for what happened. It doesnt 
think Mrs Ls acceptance of assurances her funds would not be at risk would be 
reasonable without any evidence of a guarantee or independent advice. It is not for 
the bank to provide investment advice. 
Binary options is a high risk investment. Mrs L does not appear to have a low 
appetite for risk and had she simply searched for low risk investment opportunities 
and looked at the average gains over a year, she would have quickly found out that 
what she was expecting was too good to be true and should have been a red flag. 
There were also warnings about Xtraderfx in the public domain. 
The fact that Mrs L was told it was a risk-free investment, not only goes against the 
general nature of investments but also the nature of binary options specifically. Mrs L 
appears to have believed this was genuine without any evidence from Xtraderfx in 
support of this, which appears unreasonable on her part. 
Lloyds could not have known the transactions related to binary options or that 
Xtraderfx was involved in fraudulent activity at the time the transactions took place. 
In light of Lloyds disagreement, the complaint has now been passed to me for 
determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as a binary-options scam is in fact a 
scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investment bets on the performance of (e.g.) 
commodities, cryptocurrency or stocks that resulted in very disappointing returns or losses. 
Some binary-options traders promoted these productswhich were not regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or its predecessor at the timeusing sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have duties to protect customers 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering (see below). But when simply executing 
authorised payments, they do not have to protect customers against the risk of bad bargains 
or give investment advice  and the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
constitute unauthorised investment advice (see its predecessors 2012 consultation paper on 
investment fraud, below). So, the first question to resolve is whether this particular 
retailer/trader was actually a fraudster.
I am satisfied that Xtraderfx were not carrying out legitimate binary options trades but were 
instead dishonestly defrauding customers, e.g. by not actually making trades/bets with the 
money received from clients but simply manipulating their online trading platform to show 
purported gains in order to induce further investments from victims such as Mrs L. In the 
absence of evidence to the contrary, I have concluded this because:
a) In January 2018, binary-options traders operating in the UK were required to be 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  whereas Xtraderfx were not. 
Nor were they regulated in any other jurisdiction so far as I am reasonably aware. 
This indicates they were operating illegally, probably with dishonest intentions. 
Legitimate firms tend to comply with regulatory requirements.
b) On 14 May 2018, an alert about Xtraderfx was published by the FCA warning that 
they were offering financial services in its jurisdiction without authorisation. This is a 
potential indicator of dishonest intentions.
c) On 6 July 2018, a further alert about Xtraderfx was published by the FCA warning 
that they were offering financial services in its jurisdiction without authorisation. 
d) On 23 June 2020, the High Court of England and Wales wound up Xtraderfx citing it 
was in the publics interest to do so. In considering the petition for winding up, the 
Insolvency Service presented evidence that Xtraderfx targeted customers in the UK 
and abroad advertising its services online via social media channels and used false 
celebrity endorsements to do so. It was noted that if clients attempted to remove 
funds from their trading accounts, they were advised that no withdrawals could be 
made until personal identification was supplied, yet this information was not 
requested upon them accepting client deposits. It noted in some cases, clients lost money despite paying insurance which was meant to retrospectively cover their 
losses. It was further noted that they failed to file statutory accounts and had no 
legitimate presence at their registered office. A Chief Investigator for the Insolvency 
Service said: This was nothing but a scam as (Xtraderfx) tricked their clients to 
use their online platform under false pretences and no customer has benefited as 
their investments have been lost. In my judgement, the High Court has determined 
Xtraderfx were operating fraudulently and I am satisfied this was the case. Ive also 
noted that the deceptive tactics reported by the Insolvency Service match Mrs Ls 
experience and that of common binary options investment scam victims. Whilst this 
information was not available at the time of Mrs Ls payments, it helps build an 
overall picture of scammers dishonestly seeking gains at the expense of others.
Having concluded that this was a scam rather than just a bad bargain or poor investment 
advice, I must now go on to consider four more issues in order to determine the outcome of 
the complaint:
a) Did Lloyds deal with Mrs Ls chargeback claim fairly?
b) Were any of the disputed transactions so unusual or uncharacteristic for Mrs L and/or 
her account that Lloyds fraud alerts ought reasonably to have triggered some sort of 
intervention?
c) If triggered, would Lloyds intervention have made a difference and prevented or 
reduced the loss?
d) And if so, was Mrs L partly to blame for what happened such that it would be fair and 
reasonable to reduce compensation proportionately?
chargeback 
Whilst this is not material to the outcome, I thought I would clarify the options available to 
Lloyds in relation to a chargeback claim as it appears to have attempted chargebacks in Mrs 
Ls case but were unable to recover the disputed payments. Chargeback is a voluntary 
scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant 
and cardholder if it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such 
arbitration is subject to the rules of each scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a 
chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration 
decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Lloyds) 
acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on 
behalf of its cardholder.
Lloyds did attempt chargeback claims for Mrs L under reason code 13.3 (services not as 
described). In my judgment, it was not unreasonable of Lloyds to not have taken these 
claims further than it did using this reason code. For claims under this reason code to have 
succeeded at Visas final stage of arbitration, Lloyds would have needed to provide evidence 
that Xtraderfx made written representations to Mrs L guaranteeing an amount of profit/return 
she was due to receive. Its clear this evidence was not available. But I am mindful that the 
Visa chargeback rules did cover binary-options (or investment) trading from 14 October 
2017, i.e. prior to the disputed transactions: see Visa Business News, 26 October 2017:
Effective 14 October 2017, issuers may use Reason Code 53 to address cases whereby a 
binary options (or forex) merchant has imposed obstacles to prevent cardholders from 
withdrawing funds. This chargeback right is limited to the amount available in the binary 
option account at the time funds are requested. Issuers cannot charge back more than the 
original transaction amount, so capital gains from binary options trades cannot be paid out via 
the chargeback process.However, Reason Code 53 (later re-coded by Visa to 13.5) required Lloyds to present dated 
evidence that Mrs L had an available balance (in the form of a screenshot or confirmation 
from the merchant) and that she tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, her available 
balances on the same day.
Though not material to the circumstances of this case, it is worth adding for completeness 
that, from 1 December 2018, Visas rules changed again to require binary-options merchants 
(and other high-brand risk merchants) to be coded under Merchant Category Code 
(MCC) 7995Betting, including Lottery Tickets, Casino Gaming Chips, Off-Track Betting, 
and Wagers at Race Tracks. Visa Business News dated 6 September 2018 stated:
Visa has discovered that certain binary options, rolling spot forex trading, financial spread 
betting and contracts for difference merchants are being acquired in markets that do not 
require licensing or regulate merchant trading platforms. In addition, some of these merchants 
are selling into countries where local laws prohibit such transactions or require licensing by 
the relevant financial services authority.
This change gave a further chargeback right available to the card issuer  reason code 12.7 
(invalid data). This is where a merchant used an invalid MCC; but it has a much shorter 
timescale of 75 days from the transaction date for a claim to be processed. This reason 
code would not have been applicable at the time Mrs L requested a chargeback as 
merchants like Xtraderfx were not yet required by Visa to re-code. 
Whilst I think a chargeback claim would have been more suitable using reason code 13.5 
(rather than reason code 13.3), Ive not seen that Mrs L had the required evidence for a 
claim to have succeeded under reason code 13.5, so I dont think her prospect of success 
through the chargeback scheme was possible.  
unusual or uncharacteristic activity
Lloyds is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail. Though to be clear, Im 
not referencing any requirements under the CRM as I dont think it applies to Mrs Ls case. 
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mrs L for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mrs L using the legitimate security credentials provided to her 
by Lloyds. These must be regarded as authorised payments even though Mrs L was the 
victim of a sophisticated scam. So, although she did not intend the money to go to 
scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of her bank account, 
Mrs L is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; andIn some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as Lloyds that Mrs Ls account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and 
therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning her in order to ask discreet questions about 
the nature and purpose of the payments).
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims
that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of 
scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment 
being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
In Mrs Ls case, there was a warning about Xtraderfx on the FCAs published warning list 
and IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal over six months prior to her initial payment. It is not 
unreasonable to expect a large international bank that regularly updates its internal alerts to 
include information about payees who had tried to carry out regulated activities without 
permission. I accept the warning would not have identified what type of investment was 
being sold; and it did not necessarily follow from the nature of the warning in isolation that 
these were fraudsters. But given the timing of the alert relative to the first payment, I do think 
Lloyds ought to have blocked it; and it had several months to update and communicate its 
watch-list. The bank had constructive if not actual notice that the payee might not be a 
legitimate merchant  therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have properly 
questioned Mrs L before processing all the payments in order to satisfy itself that all was 
well.
If Lloyds had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mrs L would have explained what she was doing. In such circumstances, whilst 
the bank had no duty to protect her from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could 
have explained to her that there was a regulatory warning and invited her to look more 
closely into this trader. It could have also explained its own customer experiences with 
unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be 
prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at that time, there was information 
in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not
about the very high risks associated with binary options trading, including many warnings of 
potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets 
Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of 
December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an 
unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City of London Polices October 2017 report 
noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options fraud; Visas Business News publication 
of October 2017 where it expanded its chargeback scheme rules to cover binary options and 
investment disputes arising from merchants often unlicensed and unregulated deploying 
deceptive practices; and so forth). After all, Xtraderfx isnt new to regulated firms and weve 
seen several Lloyds customer complaints about this particular dealer. It seems likely that Lloyds wouldve seen a number of consumer complaints prior to and following the FCAs 
warnings to have been familiar enough with this scammers deceptive trading practices. 
There is no evidence that Lloyds provided Mrs L with any meaningful warnings or gave her 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments she was making. 
causation
If Lloyds had asked Mrs L what the payments were for and the basic surrounding context, it 
is likely she would have fully explained what she was doing and that everything had been 
done over the phone and online with her broker. Lloyds did not need to know for certain 
whether Mrs L was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing in a 
legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are enough 
to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good practice. I 
consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that Lloyds ought reasonably to have 
provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to financial professionals 
about the risks associated with unregulated binary options. 
If Lloyds had given a warning, I believe that Mrs L would have paused and looked more 
closely into Xtraderfx before proceeding. There is no evidence that she was willing to take 
high risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more probable 
that she would have made further enquiries into whether or not Xtraderfx were regulated in 
the UK or abroad. She could have discovered they were not and the various regulatory 
warnings about the risk of unregulated investment scams (see above). In other words, I am 
satisfied that a warning from her trusted bank would probably have exposed Xtraderfxs 
smoke and mirrors, causing her not to invest and preventing any losses.
Even if she had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted her to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind her supposed 
brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK investments but 
highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if she is to win. So 
before Mrs Ls payments were actually processed, she would probably have stopped in her 
tracks. But for Lloyds failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mrs 
L would probably have not lost any money. 
contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do not think that Mrs L was to blame for what 
happened; that she did not foresee the risk of this sort of harm or any harm. At the time of 
her trading, Xtraderfx was subject to an FCA warning but Mrs L would have needed to know 
how to search for a regulators warning. Having reviewed what information would have been 
available on a web search at the time of Mrs Ls payments, the FCAs warning did not 
appear with any level of prominence unless you included FCA in your search. I do not place 
too much weight on general but arcane information in the public domain for reasons 
previously alluded to about the information imbalance between financial professionals and 
ordinary consumers.
Mrs L began with a small investment, so she was cautious. Once her trades apparently 
started to perform, she increased her deposits. Mrs L trusted who she believed to be 
experienced traders and had no cause to doubt their assurances. Unaware of the common 
deceptive tactics of scammers, as communicated by Visa to its acquirers and issuers in 
2017, she made further payments. When Xtraderfx placed obstacles in the way of her withdrawing those funds, she contacted Lloyds for assistance. This was a sophisticated 
scam and whilst Lloyds suggest it was too good to be true, it hasnt acknowledged that Mrs L 
saw her trading account performing well and was being managed by a broker who she 
thought was a professional. I do not think she could earlier have foreseen the risk that the 
company she was dealing with was a scam and the trading account she was viewing was 
likely to be no more than a simulation.
In the circumstances, I do not think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that 
Mrs L should share blame for what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. I therefore require:
Lloyds Bank Plc to refund Mrs L all of her disputed transactions paid to Xtraderfx 
(totaling £20,800); 
The funds were paid from Mrs Ls current account but Ive noted they were 
transferred into her account from a different source. Should the funds have 
originated from a current account Lloyds should add interest to the above sum (less 
any tax properly deductible) at our usual rate of 8% simple per year from the 
respective dates of loss, but 
Should the funds have originated from a savings account Lloyds is entitled to add 
interest to the sum at bullet point one (less any tax properly deductible) at the 
interest rate of the savings pot (account) the funds originated from per year (instead 
of 8% simple interest per year), from the respective dates of loss. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman