DRN-3579516
The complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) closed his credit 
card without giving him proper notice.
What happened
Mr S had held a credit card with AESEL since at least 2018. On 14 February 2022, AESEL 
says that it wrote to Mr S telling him that his account would be terminated on 18 April 2022, 
and that it would be suspended immediately. It says that this gave him the notice that he was 
entitled to, and that its terms and conditions mean that it does not have to give him a reason 
for the account closure.
Mr S says that he did not receive any notice at all that his account was to be closed.
Our investigator looked at AESELs file and could see that there was a letter, properly 
addressed, sent on 14 February 2022, advising Mr S of the decision. In the circumstances, 
they thought that the bank had not done anything wrong. Mr S did not agree and so this has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which applied to Mr Ss card. I can see that both Mr S 
and AESEL were entitled to end the agreement without giving a reason. If AESEL wanted to 
do this, it had to give Mr S two months written notice.
Ive looked at the letter that AESEL says that it sent, and I am satisfied that they sent it. Their 
record of a letter gives the correct address for Mr S, and his complaint to them came very 
soon after it was sent.  When Mr S raised his complaint with us, he made references to that 
letter, giving the date on that letter as the relevant one. But I think that this is where there 
was a little confusion.
Mr S says that his account was closed by that letter. But that is not quite right. AESEL said 
that it was going to close his account in a little over two months, but that it was also 
suspending the account immediately. I have looked at the terms and conditions which 
applied to the card, and can see that they were entitled to suspend his account when telling 
him that they intended to close it.
AESEL has explained to this service why it took the decision to suspend and close Mr Ss 
account. Ive considered these reasons and, in the circumstances, Im satisfied that AESEL 
was entitled to take the actions it did here. AESEL has asked us to keep this information 
confidential as its commercially sensitive, as it is entitled to do. In these circumstances, I 
cant share AESELs reasons with Mr S, but I hope hell be reassured that someone impartial 
has reviewed this.
While I can understand Mr S feeling like his account was closed without notice, I am satisfied 
that proper notice was given and that the immediate suspension was fair and in line with the 
terms and conditions on the account. In the circumstances, I dont think that the bank got 
anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman