DRN-3027118
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) have added 
charges at the end of his agreement even though he returned the car with a much lower 
mileage than allowed.
What happened
Mr B entered into a personal contract plan with MBFS in 2019. At the end of the agreement 
the car was collected and inspected. Three areas of damage were noted, and Mr B says the 
car was returned with only half of the allowed mileage allowance utilised. He says the car 
was sold at auction and he was asked to pay £263.31 for the damage to the car. Mr B 
discussed the issue with MBFS as he says the cars value hadnt been reduced as the lower 
mileage meant the car had a higher value. He says he wasnt asking for a payment for the 
reduce mileage but thought the damage charges should be waived. 
MBFS issued a final response letter dated July 2021. It said the inspection carried out 
confirmed £263.31 worth of charges for damage that fell outside of its vehicle return 
conditions. It said it had provided Mr B with the information about the return conditions at the 
start of the agreement and six months prior to the end as well as these being available 
online. It said that at the beginning of the agreement it got a residual quote for the vehicle 
being returned having used the full mileage allowance and that if the vehicle is returned with 
a lower mileage it still received that quote and so didnt see any benefit from this.
Mr B didnt accept MBFS response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He explained that there was industry guidance 
set out by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) about what can be 
considered fair wear and tear when returning a vehicle. He said that having reviewed the 
damage to Mr Bs car against these guidelines and MBFS vehicle return standards the 
damage fell outside of these. Therefore, he didnt think it wrong the charges were applied. In 
terms of taking the lower mileage into account he said the agreement didnt offer a refund or 
reduced charges for this. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that MBFS terms and conditions state 
that charges are applied if the damage lessens the value of the car but the car he returned 
had a higher value due to the lower mileage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B has challenged the additional charges after returning his car. 
However, for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that MBFS did 
something wrong or treated Mr B unfairly. 
I have looked at the inspection report and the photographs of the damage for which charges 
have been made. As our investigator set out we consider the damage both against the 
business vehicle return conditions but also in light of what is considered fair wear and tear as 
set out in the industry guidelines. Having considered the damage I can see that this falls 
outside of the acceptable wear and tear and vehicle return conditions and so I do not find I 
can say that MBFS did anything wrong by applying the charges.
Mr Bs complaint is that the overall value of the car was increased beyond the cost of 
damage because he only used part of his mileage allowance. I understand the argument he 
is making but as there is nothing in the agreement to say that a refund or reduction will be 
applied in the event of lower mileage usage I do not find I can say MBFS has treated Mr B 
unfairly by not removing the damage charges because of this. I also note MBFS comments 
that it doesnt benefit from the reduced mileage.
So, while I understand why Mr B has raised the issue he has and why he is upset as he 
believes MBFS received back a higher value car due to the lower mileage, I do not find I can 
say that MBFS has done anything wrong. As it has applied the charges in line with the terms 
and conditions and Mr B was informed of the return conditions as part of the agreement, and 
the mileage allowance was there for him to use I do not find I can say he has been treated 
unfairly.
Based on the above I do not find I can say this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman