DRN-3110445
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2003. Mr 
and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold Mr W the PPI.
Mr W bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2003. TMPP can be split into
sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and critical
illness cover. Mr and Mrs W has complained about the PPI so Ive looked at the sale of the 
PPI cover only
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
The PPI covered Mr W only, so I have mainly considered his circumstances at the time of 
the sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs W aware that the PPI policy was optional and gain Mr Ws 
consent before adding the PPI to their mortgage. There isnt much paperwork available from 
the sale of the policy, but from what we know about how Halifax sold this type of policy at the 
time I think its likely Halifax would have presented the PPI as optional and gained Mr Ws 
consent before adding it to the mortgage. So, I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs W 
didnt have to take out the PPI and Mr W chose to take it out.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI policy to Mr W, so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him. Mr W has told us he was entitled to sick pay when he took the PPI, he also had 
savings, and other insurances. So, he didnt need the PPI. But the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to Mr Ws sick pay, and for longer than he would have received full pay. It would 
also have protected Mr Ws savings and paid out in different circumstances to that of his 
other insurances.
In addition to these benefits Mr W has told us he could have relied on his partner, who was 
also employed to help make repayments. But circumstances can change, and I dont think 
this type of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ws circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I think Mr W chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So, I think the policy was right for him, and I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W have told us including that their needs were not 
reviewed as their circumstances changed. But Halifax didnt have a responsibility to do this 
and I am looking at whether the policy was mis-sold. So, this doesnt change my decision. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman