DRN-4098208
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint is about the service they received from Connells Limited in 2022 in 
relation to an application for a new interest rate product for their mortgage. The application 
wasnt processed properly, and they couldnt have the product attached to their mortgage. 
By the time the mistake was discovered, there wasnt an equivalent product available and 
they had to opt for a tracker product and pay a £995 fee. They want to be compensated for 
the loss they will suffer on the mortgage over the five years the interest rate product would 
have run for.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K arranged a mortgage via Connells in 2017 with Lender T. Attached to the 
mortgage was a five-year fixed interest rate product which was due to end in November 
2022. At the same time, Mr and Mrs K paid for a service arrangement with Connells, 
whereby it would provide ongoing advice in relation to the mortgage at a limited cost.
As such, in July 2022 Mr and Mrs K were contacted by Connells when the existing product 
was approaching the end of its term. They were also considering increasing their borrowing 
to complete some home improvements. Connells recommended a remortgage to a different 
lender with a five-year fixed interest rate product. Mr and Mrs K told Connells that they would 
look to source the money they wanted for home improvements at some point over the 
following years and that they had decided to stay with their existing mortgage and attach a 
new five-year product of 3.44% fixed to it. Connells confirmed the product would be applied 
to the mortgage as of 1 October 2022.  
Connells made a mistake when submitting the product switch on Lender Ts systems and the 
rate was not attached to Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage. This came to light in October 2022, by 
which time the fixed rate products available involved significantly higher rates. Connells 
recommended Mr and Mrs K take a 1.54% above Bank of England Base Rate tracker 
product, which had no early repayment charges, and so would allow them to change to a 
fixed rate product when a more beneficial one became available. They followed the advice 
and paid a £995 product fee. 
Mr and Mrs K complained about the mistake that had been made and the financial 
consequences it would have on them.
In December 2022 Mr and Mrs K again discussed their mortgage arrangements with 
Connells. They were told by email on 20 December 2022 the only option available to them 
was a potential product transfer with the existing lender. The adviser commented at that time 
Having discussed the options available on fixed rates, you were keen for a 2 year period to 
keep payments stable whilst you reviewed your options in an ever changing financial 
climate. The advisers notes explained that Mr and Mrs K were aiming for a possible 
two-year product while the market remained unstable. 
It was also confirmed in the email that the adviser was on holiday for the festive period from 
the end of that day and so couldnt process a rate change for them until January 2023. He 
suggested that they could in the meantime organise the discussed rate direct with their 
lender. Mr and Mrs K have told us that the product they were offered was a two-year fixed at 
4.99% with a £995 product fee. The adviser told them that if they went direct to the lender, 
Connells would take no responsibility for the suitability of the product as it would be 
considered they had made their own decision in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs K also questioned in an email of the same day what effect going to the lender 
directly would have on their service arrangement with Connells. They have said they were 
told that it would no longer be valid. However, the adviser said that hed told them that the 
arrangement would remain valid if it was because Connells didnt have availability to assist 
them. Whatever the answer was at the time, it does not appear that it was confirmed in 
writing. In addition, Mr and Mrs K asked Connells what its reconciliation plan was, so that 
they could understand what options were available to them. They highlighted that agreeing 
to a new product would incur costs in at least the form of a product fee. Connells didnt 
provide any details about what it was planning to redress the situation until its complaint 
response almost a month later. 
Mr and Mrs K continued to speak to Connells about the options available to them. Its notes 
made on 5 January 2023 said that it had looked at the options available for them and they 
again preferred a two-year fixed product because they wanted payment stability for a few 
years while they were paying off other commitments. It was confirmed there were no rates 
available that day.
On 9 January 2023 Mr and Mrs K were told that the rate available for them to transfer onto 
was a two-year fixed product of 4.99% with a £995 fee. Without a fee the rate would be 
5.39%. Mr and Mrs K responded and asked whether there were any other products available 
for them at that time. The adviser confirmed two days later that the rates detailed were the 
only ones available to Mr and Mrs K. There were further discussions about the products and 
Mr and Mrs Ks preferences.
Mr and Mrs K told Connells on 13 January 2023 they could not agree to the recommended 
product. This was because they couldnt afford to pay the product fee, or the higher monthly 
costs of the mortgage on either of the products proposed. They asked Connells to continue 
to monitor the available rates in the hope that more options became available.
Connells responded to the complaint in a letter of 18 January 2023. It offered to refund the 
£995 tracker product fee as this would not have needed to be paid, but for its mistake. In 
addition, it offered a partial refund of the service arrangement fee - £250  with the 
arrangement remaining in place. Connells also offered Mr and Mrs K £600 for the distress 
and inconvenience they had suffered. It was also explained that in order to establish if 
further redress was due to Mr and Mrs K, they would need to complete a new product 
application and Connells asked that they conclude their recent discussions with its mortgage 
adviser. 
Mr and Mrs K werent happy with the response and asked us to look into their complaint. 
When they did, they told us they had taken, in September 2022, a loan to complete the 
home improvements. This was in reliance on the amount they would be paying on their 
mortgage. They also questioned why they were not being compensated for the additional 
interest they would be paying over the period of the five years they would have had the fixed 
rate product. 
Following questions from our investigator, Mr and Mrs K said their preference for the term of 
any recommended product hadnt changed. They had opted for the five-year fixed rate in 
August 2022 because it offered the best rate to suit their needs. However, in January 2023 a 
five-year rate had not been available  the only rate available had been the two-year 
products. Connells also confirmed that it would only consider compensating Mr and Mrs K for 
additional interest over a two-year period. This was because when they spoke to its adviser 
in December 2022, they said they wanted a two-year product, in the hope that at the end of 
that period, new products would offer better interest rates.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He thought that the redress offered at the 
time of the final response was acceptable for the issues it covered, but he concluded that 
Connells hadnt done enough to compensate Mr and Mrs K for their financial loss regarding 
the interest rate product. This was because they had consistently expressed the need for 
stability in mortgage payments, which is why they chose a five-year product in the first place. 
The investigator concluded that had Connells told Mr and Mrs K that it would compensate 
them for the extra interest over the term of whatever new product they took out, it is unlikely 
their preference for the term of the product would have changed.  As such, Connells should 
arrange for new advice to be given to Mr and Mrs K for a new product to be arranged, with 
them having the understanding that Connells would cover the financial losses that resulted.
Connells didnt accept the investigators opinion. It again highlighted that Mr and Mrs K had 
changed their mind and asked for a two-year product in December 2022 and had repeated 
this request in January 2023. It asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman if 
the investigator didnt change his opinion.  Connells, however, proposed a compromise. It 
suggested that Mr and Mrs K go through another review, and it would provide advice on a 
product that fitted their current needs and circumstances. Once it was known what term of 
product was appropriate for Mr and Mrs K, it would then consider what the appropriate 
redress would be. 
The investigator confirmed that redress for the increased interest rate should be calculated 
taking account of the term of the product Mr and Mrs K chose to go ahead with, up to a term 
of five years. This was on the basis that they would be making an informed choice this time 
around. The period the mortgage was on the tracker rate would also be taken into account in 
the redress calculation.
Mr and Mrs K accepted the investigators conclusions. However, as Connells continued to 
disagree that redress should be paid over a period of more than two years, the complaint 
was referred for review by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Connells has accepted that it made an error and that meant that the interest rate product 
Mr and Mrs K were offered and accepted was not attached to their mortgage. Connells has 
already offered to:
Refund the product fee for the tracker product they were advised to take in 
October 2022. 
This is appropriate in the circumstances, as the fixed rate product Mr and Mrs K were 
accepted for and should have been attached to their mortgage didnt involve them paying a 
product fee. 
£600 compensation and £250 as a partial reimbursement of the service arrangement 
fee. Both of these sums would be considered as compensation for the upset and inconvenience 
the service failure caused Mr and Mrs K. In the circumstances, I think it is an appropriate 
sum in total.
The outstanding matter to be decided relates to the financial loss Mr and Mrs K will suffer 
because interest rates have gone up since the error on Connells part. This means rather 
than paying 3.44% interest on their mortgage until October 2027, they have paid a higher 
rate of interest to date and are likely to continue to do so, at least for the foreseeable future. 
Connells accepts that Mr and Mrs K should be compensated for this loss, but it wants the 
term of the loss limited to two years. 
Connells has stated this is because after the tracker product was added to the mortgage, the 
conversations identified that Mr and Mrs K wanted to take a two-year product in the hope 
that by the end of that period, the rates would have dropped, and they could get a lower rate. 
Mr and Mrs K have confirmed this is the gist of the conversations. However, they have also 
explained that they didnt know what Connells was intending or if it was going to be offering 
redress for the mistake. As such, their decisions were made based on them receiving no 
money from Connells to compensate for the increased interest rate, and so they had to 
make decisions based on what they could afford without any assistance from Connells. 
I note that Mr and Mrs K asked Connells to tell them what it was intending to do in the way of 
redress, so that they could factor it into their decisions. Connells didnt answer the question, 
and so I think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs K to have moved forward on the basis of 
what they could afford from their income and on the assumption Connells wouldnt be 
providing any funds to help with the increased costs. Effectively they had to make their 
decisions based on a position of ignorance. I dont consider this should be held against them 
when redress is calculated. 
For clarity, I consider that Connells is liable for the interest above 3.44% Mr and Mrs K have 
paid on their mortgage since 1 November 2022 when the existing interest rate product 
expired. Going forward, if Connells recommends a product that involves a fee being paid to 
the lender, it should pay that fee on behalf of Mr and Mrs K, as their original product didnt 
involve such a fee being paid.
However, as things stand with Mr and Mrs K on a tracker product, it is difficult to establish 
what the loss will be going forward. Throughout they have said that they wanted stability of 
payments, and so I consider that the appropriate way forward would be for Connells to 
review Mr and Mrs Ks situation and establish if there is an appropriate fixed rate product 
available to them from their existing lender. The term of any such product would be 
determined by what their needs and requirements are at the time, but their decision will be 
made from an informed position regarding costs. 
For clarity, redress should be calculated from 1 November 2022 to the end of whatever new 
fixed interest rate product is attached in the summer of 2023. This will be a few months more 
than the original term the mortgage would have been fixed at, but as the delay in something 
being arranged was caused by Connells lack of openness with Mr and Mrs K, like our 
investigator, I consider it should bear the cost of the delay, not Mr and Mrs K. The interest 
rate attached to the mortgage would have changed toward the end of 2027, but its not 
possible to know what interest rates will be in 2027. As such, if a five-year product is 
attached to the mortgage. I think it is reasonable that the 3.44% is used for comparison 
throughout.
I cannot tell Mr and Mrs K what to do, but if they accept this decision, I will request that they 
make sorting out their mortgage a priority. Just as it is not fair for them to pay the cost of the 
delay in the process caused by Connells, equally it would be unfair for them to delay the process and cause additional cost to Connells. As such, I would suggest that the parties 
meet within 30 days of Mr and Mrs K accepting this final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Connells Limited to facilitate a new mortgage advice process for Mr and Mrs K to 
allow a new, suitable fixed interest rate product to be arranged for their mortgage. Once that 
has been done, Connells should compare the cost of the mortgage between 1 November 
2022 and the end of the term of the new product against what the cost of the mortgage 
would have been if the interest was charged at 3.44%. Connells Limited should also pay any 
product fee that is charged for the interest rate product it recommends. This redress should 
be calculated and paid to Mr and Mrs K within 28 days of the product being attached to the 
mortgage.
In addition, if Connells has not already paid the redress and compensation it offered in its 
final response letter, it should do so now. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman