DRN-3106190
The complaint
Mrs R (through a representative) has complained that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending
Stream didnt carry out affordability checks. If it had done so, it wouldve seen she was in a
debt spiral and not lent to her.
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Mrs R didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Rs complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mrs R took five instalment loans from Lending Stream between April and June 2019. A
summary of her borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Lending Stream
can be found below:
loan number loan amount received date actual repayment 
date
1 £400.00 28-04-2019 03-05-2019
2 £540.00 08-05-2019 17-05-2019
3 £70.00 14-05-2019 17-05-2019
4 £500.00 15-06-2019 outstanding
5 £150.00 28-06-2019 outstanding
Mrs R has had some problems repaying her final two loans, and at the point Lending 
Stream provided this service with its business file an outstanding balance remains on loans 
4 and 5.
Following Mrs Rs complaint, Lending Stream agreed in its final response letter that it 
shouldnt have granted Mrs Rs fifth and final loan. In order to put things right it agreed to do 
the following;
Refund the interest and fees Mrs R had paid towards loan 5
Pay 8% simple interest on this sum (minus tax of 20%)
Will use this refund to offset any outstanding balances and
Remove any adverse markers recorded on Mrs Rs credit file for this loan.
Mrs R didnt accept this offer and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Rs complaint. She didnt uphold her complaint. She
said, Lending Stream had carried out proportionate checks but for the later loans it ought to
have built up a more detailed picture of Mrs Rs circumstances. But she wasnt able to say
that Lending Stream wouldve thought the loan wouldve been unsustainable.
Lending Stream agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Later on, it told this service that the
offer that it made in the final response letter in respect to loan 5 was still available to Mrs R.
Mrs R disagreed and in summary she said the number of loans she took in a short space of
time was a problem. The fact, that loan 4 was more expenditure then loan 5, she doesnt
understand why this loan hasnt been upheld.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the time the loan was provided.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mrs R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs R. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to
establish whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further.Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.
I would start by saying, that Lending Stream accepts something went wrong when it
approved loan 5. And the offer it has made to resolve this loan is broadly in line with what
this service wouldve recommended had the adjudicator upheld this loan. Therefore, this
loan appears to be longer in dispute, and I wont make a finding on this loan.
Instead this decision will focus on loans 1  4.
Loan 1
When this loan was approved, Lending Stream asked Mrs R about her income and she
declared she had an income of £1,700 per month. Lending Stream also made some
enquires with Mrs R about her living costs. She declared these to be £700 per month.
This left Mrs R with £1,000 disposable income to afford the largest monthly repayment of
£134.48.
A credit check was also carried out but the results of these are no longer available, so I cant
say for sure what Lending Stream saw. But I would say that the credit checks Lending
Stream carried out were limited, and so wouldnt have seen all the information contained
with Mrs Rs full credit file. For example, it wouldve likely have known the number of active
credit accounts  but not what those accounts were.
For Mrs Rs first loan I think Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks which showed
Mrs R was likely to be able to afford the repayments she was committing to making. I also
havent seen any further information that shows its likely Lending Stream was made aware
of any financial problems Mrs R mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it
to investigate her circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Lending Stream to
rely on the information it obtained and approve this loan.
Loan 2
Mrs R repaid loan 1 much quicker than expected. Lending Stream wouldve expected the
repayments to last six months, but she repaid the loan within a matter of days. But there
doesnt appear to have been any obvious repayment problems.
Mrs R then returned for a larger loan, this time her largest contractual repayment was
£169.99. It is this amount Lending Stream needed to consider when it carried out its checks.
Lending Stream carried out the same sort of checks for this loan as it did for loan 1. It was
told Mrs Rs income was £1,350 with £675 declared by Mrs R as her expenditure.
Given the amount that Mrs R was committed to paying along with it still being quite early on
in the lending relationship, I consider that Lending Stream carried out a proportionate check
and the results of that check showed it that Mrs R was likely to be able to afford what she
was committed to paying. Im therefore not going to be upholding Mrs Rs complaint about
this loan.
Loan 3
While loan 2, was running Lending Stream provided Mrs R with another loan, but for a
smaller value. This meant the largest repayment Mrs R would have to pay to Lending
Stream (in any one month) to cover the repayment to loans 2 and 3 was £191.12.Lending Stream again gathered the same sort of information from Mrs R. She declared a
monthly income of £1,350 with outgoings of £575. So, the total repayments that Mrs R
needed to make wouldve still looked affordable to Lending Stream.
Im also not planning to uphold this loan for the same reasons that Ive outlined above. I still
think the level of check that Lending Stream carried out was proportionate. But I would note
at this point, that Mrs R was returning for new lending fairly quickly  this was her third loan
in a matter of weeks. So, I do think there were signs starting to emerge that Mrs R may have
been having some wider difficulties. But these, at this point, in my view, arent strong enough
or well established enough to uphold this loan.
I am planning not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint about loan 3.
Loan 4
Mrs R didnt return for further borrowing for around a month after repaying loans 2 and 3
significantly quicker than Lending Stream had expected. However, Mrs R was repaying the
loans much earlier than planned but there were no obvious repayment problems.
Mrs R was expected to repay £189.89 for five months with a sixth and final payment of
£90.55 in order to successfully repay her loan. Lending Stream again asked for her income
(£1,250) and her outgoings £600. On the face of it, this loan looked more than affordable.
But, given how quickly Mrs R had been retuning or new loans, her history of settling loans
much sooner than anticipated, the fact this loan was for a larger amount compared to loan 3,
and there seemed to be a sustained drop in what Mrs R was declaring as her income I think
Lending Streams checks needed to go further than just relying on the information she
declared.
I think Lending Stream needed to have a complete and accurate understanding of Mrs Rs
financial position. It couldve done this a number of ways. It couldve asked for evidence of
her income via a payslip and then asked for evidence of what bills she had. Possibly,
through her credit file or paper copies of them. Alternately, Lending Stream couldve
requested copies of Mrs Rs bank statements which wouldve given it a more in-depth picture
of her financial position and wouldve highlighted any difficulties she may have been having.
Lending Stream didnt do this, so I dont think the checks were proportionate. But that isnt
the end of the matter. For me to be able to conclude that Lending Stream shouldnt have
given this loan, I have to be satisfied that not only did Lending Stream not carry out a
proportionate check, that by not carrying out such a check Mrs R has been caused a loss.
However, Im not able to do that here, because Ive not been provided with any information
about Mrs Rs actual financial position at the time. In the absence of this information, I cant
conclude Lending Stream made an error when it approved this loan. Therefore, as it stands,
Im proposing not to uphold this loan either.
So, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint about loans 1 - 4. I appreciate Mrs R will be
disappointed by the outcome of this complaint, but I hope my explanation has been useful in
explaining why Ive reached the outcome that I have.
But Lending Stream has already accepted that something may have gone wrong when loan
5 was granted, and it has offered to put things right for Mrs R. This seems a reasonable
outcome for the complaint.Both Lending Stream and Mrs R were asked to provide this Service with any further 
comments and evidence by 10 October 2021.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lending Stream told this Service it doesnt have anything further to add. 
Mrs Rs representative let this Service know that the provisional decision had been received 
and it would pass to us any further comments that Mrs R had. This Service, hasnt received 
anything further from either Mrs R or her representative. Given the deadline for a response 
to the provisional decision has now passed, I see no reason to delay the issuing of the final 
decision. 
As no new evidence or comments have been provided, I see no reason to depart from the 
findings I reached in the provisional decision. Lending Stream carried out proportionate 
checks for loans 1  3. For loan 4, the checks it needed to do ought to have gone further, but 
I didnt have enough evidence to say that Lending Stream was wrong to lend to Mrs R. 
I didnt make a finding on loan 5, because Lending Stream bas also accepted something 
went wrong. The offer Lending Stream made in the final response letter was fair. So Im not 
upholding Mrs Rs complaint about loans 1 - 4. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision. Im not going to be asking 
Lending Stream to do anymore than what it has already agreed to do.
 
If Mrs R accepts this decision then Gain Credit LLC should pay the compensation it has 
offered to in its final response. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman