DRN-4459803
The complaint
N, a company, complains about a claim it made on its QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) business
protection insurance policy.
N says QIC treated it unfairly when assessing its claim.
Ns complaint is brought by a representative on its behalf but for ease of reference I shall
refer to all submissions as being Ns own.
In this decision all references to QIC include their claims handlers.
What happened
N operates as a restaurant. In July 2021 Ns business premises was damaged by flooding. N
made a claim on its business protection insurance policy to QIC for damage to its stock,
fixtures, fittings, wines and spirits. It also made a claim for business interruption as N was
unable to trade during the time its property was damaged. This complaint is about that claim
specifically.
N says that QIC didnt properly assess its claim and relied on flawed information to offer only
16 weeks worth of business interruption cover when it was closed for much longer. N says
the policy allows up to 12 months worth of business interruption cover, but QIC have
unreasonably limited this. Its also unhappy that QIC refused to make any interim payments
to it in respect of business interruption cover when it was struggling financially.
QIC on the other hand say they relied on information from their loss adjuster that the
property was dried out much sooner than N states and that the delay in getting N trading
was due to its landlords failure to accept liability and reinstate the property within a timely
manner, which is not a peril covered by the policy. QIC says that Ns landlord is responsible
for the additional weeks of business interruption N is claiming for.
Our investigator considered Ns complaint on two occasions. Initially she didnt uphold it. She 
said that N hadnt shown that the amount of loss it was claiming had resulted from the
damage caused by the flood and that if it could show the repairs were estimated to take
more than 16 weeks QIC should consider this further. QIC accepted this but N didnt. After N
provided further information, the investigator, she said that QIC should increase the business
interruption payment to 26 weeks to take account of the time the repairs took but excluding a
period of 2/3 months which represented unnecessary delays in the work completing, which
QIC werent responsible for. QIC accepted the investigators second view, but N didnt so the
matter was passed to me to determine.
I issued a provisional decision upholding Ns complaint earlier this month along the following 
lines:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to depart from the investigators findings and uphold Ns complaint.
Ill explain why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
SECTION 2  BUSINESS INTERRUPTION the Insurer will indemnify the Insured in respect
of ii. the amount of loss resulting from the Damage.
So, the issue I need to decide here is whether the loss resulted from the damage caused by
the original flood.
QIC rely on a drying certificate to say the drying to Ns premises was completed by their own
agents in August 2021. They say that the work required to put the premises back into its
original state should have taken no more than 4-6 weeks beyond this. They have however
accepted the investigators view that they should pay a claim for 26 weeks in total which
takes into account the work taking considerably longer but excluding 2/3 months of delays
they werent responsible for.
N on the other hand says the premises wasnt dry at all in August 2021 and needed to be
dried out properly. Since the investigator issued both her views, N was provided with a copy
of the drying certificate and underlying report from QIC. N has said that the premises was
not dry after QICs agents attended and what they did was an initial clean up rather than
proper drying. N says the premises wasnt dry until September 2022. This was because their
landlords insurer arranged to dry the premises, completing that in February 2022 then noted
additional water pooling which required further stripping and drying . They say this is
evidenced by the drying report theyre relying on.
Ive seen both reports. QICs agents report states:
This documents confirms that moisture levels in the property detailed below have been
returned to a satisfactory level and pre loss condition (Subject to any information detailed in
the Notes/exclusions section below.
Under Notes/exclusions it says:
The damaged areas are within a tanked (Waterproofed) cellar. Behind the tanking moisture
will remain present. The property has been stabalised and no further drying will be required
as any remaining moisture sits behind the tanking (Waterproofing).
N says that the flood to its basement was considerable. It contained 4/5 feet of flood water
and sewage which meant the room had to be properly stripped out to facilitate drying, 
including the removal of floor and wall tiles and the opening of stud walls to treat them for
mould and bacteria. N has provided photographs of the basement in the immediate
aftermath of the flood. It also says that it doesnt recall QICs agent using any drying
equipment- rather they cleaned the room with a jet wash, mops and squigies. N says there
were no working electrics in the room at that time, so it wasnt possible to use drying
equipment in there and there was no temporary board set up at this time.
The report N has produced is from its landlords drying agent. The report sets out the
property was not dry when they first came on board and the landlords insurers loss adjuster
has provided evidence to say that when the property was dried in February 2022, a puddle
appeared in the far corner near the temporary electric board and readings taken showed
there were still elevated levels of moisture. The loss adjuster says this was caused by the
tanking being breached which was because of the flood. As a result, the basement had to be
tanked and dried again so the drying wasnt complete until September 2022- over a year
after QICs agents came in. The loss adjuster has also confirmed that the works required to
put the property back into its original state were completed around December 2022 followingthe drying being concluded.
Given the wealth of evidence provided by N, Im satisfied that its property wasnt dry in
August 2021. I think this is supported by QICs agents own report which refers to moisture
sitting behind tanking, which was then later found to be breached. And given the readings by
Ns landlords drying agents, Im satisfied the basement did clearly require substantial work
to ensure it was properly dried. And even when this was undertaken, it wasnt found to
address everything so more work and more drying were needed and further work was
required to reinstate the property. From everything Ive seen, its clear to me that the drying
and work took considerably longer than QIC has determined. And given the nature of the
flooding and the work required, I dont think QIC were right to limit the claim in the way that
they did. As such I uphold Ns complaint and direct QIC to put things right in the way Ive set
out below.
Putting things right
Given the length of drying and works required, the claim will breach the policy limit. Thats
because the flood occurred in July 2021 and the works required to rectify the damage
werent complete until December 2022. Even if I discount 2/3 months for problems with the
landlord, that QIC werent responsible for, the claim still breaches the limit payable for
business interruption which amounts to 12 months. As such I think QIC should pay the
maximum benefit available under this section of the policy in satisfaction of Ns claim.
Ive also thought about Ns complaint that QIC didnt make any interim payments to it under
the policy for business interruption when it was struggling financially. Whilst I dont think QIC
were obliged to do this, I do think it would have been reasonable for them to consider this
sooner, particularly because theyd already agreed to pay up to 16 weeks of business
interruption insurance. As such I think QIC should pay N interest of 8% per year simple from
the date they made any payments to N (if any) until they pay the remainder of the claim Ive
determined here. If no payments have been made for the business interruption insurance
claim, then QIC should pay interest one month from the date upon which the claim was
made, until the remainder is discharged.
Finally, this claim would have caused N considerable inconvenience. So, whilst I cant
consider a claim for distress, because N is not a natural person, I think the inconvenience
alone in having to continually challenge QIC means they are entitled to compensation of
£350. I think this figure adequately compensates N for the inconvenience caused to it.
I asked both parties to provide me with anymore comments or evidence. Both parties 
responded. N has accepted my findings, but QIC has not. In summary QIC says:
There was a matter with the landlord that prevented liability being admitted until 
September 2021, two months after the incident. Thats not something they are 
responsible for- Ns landlord is.
They have not seen the evidence provided by Ns landlords drying agent.
The mitigation work their agents completed was because the floor was flooded with 
sewage and N needed their help. 
The drying certificate their agents provided set out that the damaged areas were tanked 
and the property had been stabilized so no further drying would be required. If thats 
correct the damage to the tanking which is contended caused further flooding must have 
occurred later and not as a result of the original flood.
Because of the above QIC should not be responsible for anymore than 6 months of 
business interruption because the first 2/3 months of the claim was down to the landlord. 
Anything beyond this should be funded by the landlord. Because QIC dont agree with my provisional findings, the matter has been returned to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision and remain of the view that Ns complaint should be upheld in the way I 
set out there. 
Ive taken on board what QIC has said about the additional evidence N provided me with 
from the landlords agents and the fact that QIC hadnt seen it before. But QIC didnt request 
a copy of this evidence to comment on. And given they havent asked to do so and instead 
have made submissions about it to the extent that they think Ns basement was dry when 
their agents left it- so the problem must be as a result of something other than the original 
flood- Ive thought about how likely this was. As I said in my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded by the content of QICs agents report as determinative. Thats because:
The flood damage was considerable the basement contained 4/5 feet of water and 
sewage. Even from a laypersons perspective, Im not satisfied that cleaning it with a jet 
wash, mops and squigies was enough to dry it after that kind of flood.
There was no evidence of proper drying equipment being used which is supported by Ns 
testimony about there being no electrics in the basement to enable this.
Ns testimony about the considerable work needed to dry out the basement (including 
stripping back the basement and removing the floor and wall tiles to treat them for mould 
and bacteria is persuasive in light of the scale of the damage).
Ns landlords drying agent and loss adjusters evidence supports the property wasnt 
dry- even when theyd done considerable work to enable it to be dry. Again, this is 
consistent with the scale of the flood.
The loss adjusters evidence is clear that the cause of the tanking being breached was 
as a result of the flood.
In light of that, I dont agree that the further work needed was caused by some other 
unknown event other than the flood.
In terms of the claim for business interruption and how much should be paid by QIC in 
respect of this, I have taken on board their comments in respect of the policy limit. The policy 
terms say:
SECTION 2 - BUSINESS INTERRUPTION
In the event of Damage to the Property used by the Insured for the purposes of the Business
carried on by the Insured at the Premises during the Period of Insurance from the Insured
Perils under Section 1
a) resulting in interruption or interference with the Business or
b) which prevents the Insured from tracing or establishing customers Outstanding 
Debit Balances in whole or in part as a result of the Insureds books of account at the 
Premises being damaged
the Insurer will indemnify the Insured in respect of
i. the amount of loss resulting from such interruption or interference provided that at thetime of the Damage there shall be in force an insurance covering the interest of the
Insured in the Property at the Premises and that liability shall be admitted or payment
made therefore or payment would have been made or liability admitted but for the
operation of a proviso in the insurance excluding liability for losses below a specified
amount
ii.  the amount of loss resulting from the Damage
The liability of the Insurer under this Section shall not exceed in respect of any item 
its Sum Insured or Limit stated in this Policy or the Schedule at the time of the event 
(my emphasis in bold.)
The policy schedule says:
SUMS INSURED AND LIMITS OF LIABILITY
Business Interruption (Gross Profit) -12 months £250,000
There is nothing in the policy schedule which limits the timeframe applicable to the claim in 
any given policy year. Indeed, the only requirement is for there to be buildings insurance in 
place, which was the case, because Ns landlords policy was engaged during the course of 
the claim.  As a result, the cover extends to a claim for 12 months of loss of gross profit up to 
a limit of £250,000. If QIC had intended to limit that to the gross profit applicable in any 
policy year, then they should have provided for it in the policy terms. But as things stand, the 
terms dont say that. So N is entitled to the benefit of those limits even if they carry on 
beyond the expiry of the policy. That extends beyond the 2/3 months I have said QIC arent 
obliged to fund.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out within my provisional decision and in this final decision, I direct QIC 
to put things right as follows:
Given the length of drying and works required, the claim will breach the policy limit. Thats
because the flood occurred in July 2021 and the works required to rectify the damage
werent complete until December 2022. Even if I discount 2/3 months for problems with the
landlord that QIC werent responsible for, the claim still breaches the limit payable for
business interruption, which amounts to 12 months. As such I think QIC should pay the
maximum benefit available under this section of the policy in satisfaction of Ns claim.
Ive also thought about Ns complaint that QIC didnt make any interim payments to it under
the policy for business interruption when it was struggling financially. Whilst I dont think QIC
were obliged to do this, I do think it would have been reasonable for them to consider this
sooner, particularly because theyd already agreed to pay up to 16 weeks of business
interruption insurance. As such I think QIC should pay N interest of 8% per year simple from
the date they made any payments to N (if any) until they pay the remainder of the claim Ive
determined here.
Finally, this claim would have caused N considerable inconvenience. So, whilst I cant
consider a claim for distress, because N is not a natural person, I think the inconvenience
alone in having to continually challenge QIC means they are entitled to compensation of
£350. I think this figure adequately compensates N for the inconvenience caused to it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ns complain against QIC Europe Ltd and direct it to 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman