DRN-3232542
The complaint
Mr C complains about the delayed transfer of his holdings from Saxo Capital Markets (UK), 
referred to as Saxo Capital or the transferor, to a third-party provider, also referred to as 
the transferee. 
  
Mr C is unhappy about the redress offered by Saxo Capital, instead he would like £2,000 
compensation for the additional distress and inconvenience caused.    
What happened
On 10 February 2021 Mr C made a request to transfer his portfolio, consisting of cash and 
two stocks. 
One of his stocks  from the US market  was transferred and settled smoothy, but the other 
stock  which came via Hong Kong  wasnt so smooth. Having left Saxo Capital twice, it 
was returned twice. 
Mr C says he was told by the transferee that Saxo Capital failed to deliver the stock twice, 
but Saxo maintains that it wasnt entirely its fault, and that this was also as a result of the 
transferee failing to provide the correct instructions. 
Nevertheless, as a goodwill gesture Saxo Capital offered to waive the custodian fee of 
£25.96 and offered Mr C £500 as full and final settlement of his complaint. But unhappy with 
Saxo Capitals offer Mr C referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
On 10 February 2021 the safe keeping account number detailed by Saxo Capital to 
the transferee was noted as starting with 718.  
On 8 April 2021 following a few (failed) transfer attempts, Saxo Capital asked the 
transferee to amend the safe keeping account number to a different number starting 
with 741.
The transferee thereafter failed to use the revised safe keeping account number, until 
17 May 2021. 
Although the unsuccessful transfer was initially caused by Saxo Capital  by 
providing an incorrect safe keeping account number  the additional delays (after 8 
April 2021) were caused by the transferee  because it failed to amend its records 
with the new details, causing the transfer to take longer. 
Saxo Capital offered Mr C £500 compensation for its part in the delay which is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr C disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
The stock in question lost 25% of its value whilst the transfer was delayed. This 
equates to a financial loss of around £5,100 because he wasnt able to exit his 
position. 
The loss should be reimbursed by Saxo Capital, and the transferee, as they are both 
jointly and severally liable. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said:
Despite what Mr C says, theres no persuasive evidence that he intended to sell the 
stock in question. 
Mr C still holds the stock which would suggest that his comments are based on 
hindsight, and theres still no evidence he intended to sell the shares.  
I note Mr C says:
He wasnt aware that he couldve sold his stock and transferred the cash whilst 
maintaining his ISA status. 
He didnt pursue this line of enquiry because he didnt know that he could do this. 
He confirmed that he still holds the relevant stock. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion, for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
Because Saxo Capital upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is redress, and 
whether or not what the business offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think £500 compensation for the delays, in 
addition to waiving the relevant broker fees, is broadly fair and reasonable in this instance. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Cs strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support 
the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he wont take 
the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr C, and Saxo Capital, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr C says, I cant blame Saxo 
Capital for the entire delays that hes experienced. In other words, on the face of the 
evidence, and on balance, like the investigator Im unable to safely conclude that Saxo 
Capital is solely responsible for the whole delay experienced.  Im conscious that Saxo Capital couldnt act without the relevant information from the 
transferee and therefore after 8 April 2020, it could only go so far with the transfer request. 
Nevertheless, I dont think it managed Mr Cs expectations as well as it couldve done, or 
provided the level of service that he could expect from it. 
The above notwithstanding, I think its more likely than not Saxo Capital was responsible for 
the delays up to 8 April 2020, and probably for the reasons set out by the investigator. I note 
in an email dated 29 March 2020, Saxo Capital said that it appears that there may have 
been some errors with the SSI transfer details we hold on file for one another. On balance, I 
think the issue was probably with Saxo Capital, rather than the transferee at that point. 
I note that after Saxo Capital instructed the transferee to amend the safe keeping account 
number (on 8 April 2021), it didnt change any of its instructions. 
On 12 May 2021, I note Saxo messaged the transferee asking it to confirm the safekeeping 
account number. In short, it said: 
Can you please confirm the safekeeping a/c no you have used. Is it 741  
I note that thereafter on 17 May 2021, Saxo Capital again asked the transferee to confirm 
the safekeeping account number, after which the transferee confirmed that it hadnt used 
that account number. 
Im aware that eventually  after the initial delays  the transfer was settled using the same 
Standard Settlement Instructions (SSIs), as previously provided by Saxo Capital. So, in the 
circumstances I cant blame Saxo Capital for any delays after 8 April 2021.
Im aware Saxo Capital says that the reason for the additional transfer failings is that the 
counterparty wasnt matching its instructions, or it was using the incorrect safekeeping 
account number. Whatever the reason might be, in this case Im only considering the 
complaint against Saxo Capital and not the transferee, therefore I cant comment upon what 
the transferee mightve (or might not have) done wrong. Whether or not the transferee is to 
blame, I note Saxo Capital accepts its part in the delay. 
Despite what Mr C says, Im mindful that at no point during the delayed transfer process did 
he ask Saxo Capital to sell his stock. On the contrary, it seems he was keen to pursue the 
transfer, despite issues. I note he says he wasnt aware that he could sell his stock and 
transfer cash, but I think this is unlikely given the hed already transferred some cash to the 
new provider. But even if Im wrong and he was unaware, its not something I can blame 
Saxo Capital for  it was merely acting on his instructions to transfer. 
In the circumstances, I dont think Saxo Capital was obliged to advise Mr C that he could sell 
his shares. There wasnt any suggestion thats what he wanted to do, so I dont think it has 
done anything wrong by not voluntarily advising him to do so. 
Despite what Mr C says he wouldve done, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im 
unable to safely say that he wouldve sold his shares if there had been no delay. Im mindful 
he had an opportunity to do so but didnt, therefore Im not persuaded by what Mr C now 
says he wouldve done.  
I appreciate what Mr C says about the value of his stock. But Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that he was given any guarantees about what he would receive upon sale or transfer of his 
stock. Mr C will be aware that the value of his stock is dependent on the stockmarket, and 
its not something that Saxo Capital could predict or control. I note Mr C wants £2,000 compensation for the additional distress and inconvenience 
caused since the complaint was made. I appreciate hes unhappy about the delays, but 
complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and so this issue isnt a matter that I have the 
power to look into and award compensation for. In any case, Im aware that Saxo has 
awarded Mr C £500 compensation in full and final settlement of this complaint, which is 
arguably more than wed ordinarily award for this kind of delay. 
I appreciate Mr C will be unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im 
unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that Saxo Capital is 
responsible for Mr C not selling his shares or any loss subsequent loss in value he may have 
experienced.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman