DRN-2056297
The complaint
Mr K complains that National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold him a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr K was sold a PPI policy in connection with a credit card in March 2001. The PPI cost no 
more than 79p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance and would have paid 10% of the 
monthly balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mr K was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld as he found that the policy 
was sold on the telephone and that there was insufficient evidence to show that the optional 
nature of the policy had been made clear to Mr K. NatWest didnt agree with the adjudicator. 
They say that the policy was either sold by post or in branch and that the sample application 
forms they have for both methods of sale show that PPI would have been presented as 
optional. 
As the parties dont agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in this case in July 2020 explaining why I didnt think this 
complaint should be upheld. I asked both parties to provide me with any further information 
or evidence they would like me to consider. Since then NatWest have confirmed they have 
nothing further to add and Mr K has said that he is adamant he never ticked to take PPI and 
that it wasnt sold to him in branch.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case.
Having done that, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. I appreciate what Mr K has told us about 
not taking this credit card out in branch and not ticking a box for PPI, but I have to balance 
this against how NatWest has told us about how they sold PPI at the time of the sale. And 
based on the evidence available to me, I am unable to conclude that the sale took place on 
the phone. It follows that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint for the same reasons as those set 
out in my provisional decision. I have set my reasons out again below and they form part of 
my final decision.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr K was eligible for PPI. Bearing in mind Mr Ks age and 
circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Mr K was eligible.
NatWest had to make it clear to Mr K that the PPI was optional and needed his consent for it 
to be applied to the account. Mr K has told us that PPI was sold without his knowledge or 
consent.
I cant know for sure what took place during the sale so Ive thought about everything Mr K 
and NatWest have told us and looked to the available documents to help me decide what is 
more likely to have happened.
The first step is to ascertain what method of sale was used to sell the policy. Mr K says that 
the credit card was arranged on the phone, there was no mention of PPI. He was then sent 
the forms  these he says were pre-completed and he just signed where indicated.  
If it were the case that the PPI had been sold on the phone, I would most likely have agreed 
with the adjudicator that there is insufficient evidence to conclude that PPI was presented as 
optional.
However, NatWest say that the sale would not have taken place in the manner Mr K has 
described. They provide two main reasons for this. First, NatWest did not sell credit cards on 
the phone at the time of the sale. Secondly the start date for the credit card and the PPI is 
the same which means they would have been sold at the same time. This would only have 
been possible during a postal sale or a branch sale.
Based on what NatWest have told us about their sales process, I think its unlikely that Mr K 
was sold the credit card on the phone and as both the credit card and the PPI start date are 
the same, it follows that they are likely to have been sold at the same time. This means I 
dont think PPI was sold on the phone. I think its more likely that it was sold as NatWest say 
either in branch or during a postal sale.
Having found that PPI was sold either in branch or during a postal application, Ive gone on 
to consider how PPI would have been presented during such sales. NatWest no longer have 
a copy of Mr Ks completed application form. This is understandable given the length of time 
since the sale. Instead they have provided us with sample application forms from the time of 
the sale. I have no reason to believe Mr K would have completed something different. 
The application forms show that there was a separate section for PPI and that Mr K would 
have been presented with a clear option as to whether or not to take PPI. It looks like PPI 
would only have been added to the account at this time if PPI was specifically requested by 
ticking the relevant box.
So while I appreciate what Mr K has told us, I think its more likely that NatWest presented 
the policy as optional and that it was applied to the account because Mr K chose to take it 
out. Of course its understandable that Mr K may now no longer recall this. This means I am 
unable to uphold Mr Ks complaint on this point and my findings differ from the adjudicator.
NatWest say they didnt advise Mr K to take PPI out. And I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest otherwise. This means they didnt have to take steps to check if PPI was suitable for 
Mr K. So for example, they didnt need to take into account Mr Ks existing repayment means 
(such as what he has told us about his employee sick pay) and they didnt need to check if 
the policy was affordable for him. 
But Natwest did have to give Mr K clear information so that he could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions/restrictions in the policy. Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr K wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. However, this in itself doesnt mean that the PPI was mis-
sold as I have to go on and consider whether better information would have put Mr K off 
taking the PPI out. And based on the evidence available to me, I dont think it would have. I 
say this because:-The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ks sick pay and would have been 
particularly useful when his sick pay reduced to half. And it would also have paid out 
if he lost his job in addition to any redundancy pay he may have been entitled to. 
-Mr K doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which may have 
made it difficult for him to make a claim or stopped him from making a claim under 
the policy.
-I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable to Mr K.
-Mr K could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out financially.
So I dont think NatWest mis-sold Mr K PPI. Which means NatWest dont have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But NatWest will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because: 
When the policy was sold, NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium) - so they should have told Mr K about that. Because NatWest didnt tell 
Mr K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest have offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what NatWest need to do
NatWest have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share they got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. NatWest should also pay back to Mr K any extra interest he 
paid because of that.
NatWest should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr K the difference 
between what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share they 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest should also pay Mr K 8%* simple 
interest if Mr K paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr K can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc do not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But National Westminster Bank Plc do have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit 
share they got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if they have not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman