DRN-3108323
The complaint
Ms D complains The Royal Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) failed to set up a standing order from 
her bank account as she instructed.
What happened
Ms D says in April 2021 she wrote to her bank, a subsidiary brand of RBS, asking them to 
set up a standing order from her bank account prior to 15 May 2021 to avoid charges being 
incurred on the recipients bank account. Ms D says RBS failed to do this, so she wrote to 
them and received a letter back from them saying they needed more information and 
couldnt find the original instructions. In addition, Ms D says when she received their reply, it 
was on headed paper from RBSs parent bank and this added to her frustration. Ms D wants 
RBS to set up the standing order, back date it from when she originally asked, cover any 
costs and fees the recipient of the stranding order has paid, and compensate her for her 
costs and the inconvenience this has caused her.
RBS says they have checked their records and cant find any instructions being received 
from Ms D in April 2021 and have asked Ms D to provide them with the details of this, so it 
can be set up for her. RBS have apologised to Ms D for writing to her using their parent 
banks headed paper and have provided feedback to the member of staff. 
Ms D wasnt happy with RBSs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says RBS have checked their records but have no record of ever receiving  the 
instructions from Ms D in April 2021. The investigator says without any evidence to show this 
was sent, he was unable to say RBS had made a mistake here. The investigator says RBS 
have apologised for sending a letter to Ms D on incorrectly branded headed 
correspondence, but didnt feel this changed the outcome of Ms Ds complaint.
Ms D didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would be inconvenient and frustrating for Ms D to discover RBS hadnt 
set up the standing order she had instructed. When looking at this complaint I will consider if 
RBS were at fault for not setting up Ms Ds standing order. 
Ms D has also complained that RBS when responding to her complaint, wrote to her using 
the brand name of its parent bank. Like the investigator, I cant say that this has any bearing 
on the outcome of the main part of Ms Ds complaint regarding the standing order 
instruction. While I can see this may have caused Ms D some confusion, RBS have 
apologised for this and I am satisfied that is sufficient as this was a genuine mistake and 
compensation would not be warranted here.
Ms Ds complaint centres around the issues she has faced because RBS failed to set up a 
standing order instruction, she sent to them in April 2021. Ms D has made the point RBS 
must have received the instruction as they have since asked for additional information from 
her. 
Its important to say when questioned by this service, RBS have made clear, having 
searched their scanning systems, they couldnt find any record of Ms Ds standing order 
instruction she says she sent in April 2021. When coming to a full and impartial decision, I 
can only rely on the information provided to me and I have not been provided with any 
evidence, from Ms D to show this standing order instruction was sent to RBS. While I 
understand how frustrating this must be for Ms D, I cant say with any certainty, RBS have 
made any error here.
Ms D has told this service that RBS must have received her standing order instruction sent 
in April 2021, because they have since asked her to provide further information to them. 
While Ms D may not agree, from the information I have seen, in all likelihood Ms D is 
referring to RBSs letter dealing with her complaint and they were simply asking for this 
information so they could set up the standing order as she originally requested - not as Ms D 
believed, they required this to add to the original instruction they already held. 
RBS have told this service, if Ms D still requires the standing order to be set up, then she 
should contact them and provide the information they have requested from her and I would 
encourage Ms D to take this course of action if she still wishes for the standing order to be 
set up.
While Ms D will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of RBS here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman