DRN-2148511
The complaint
Mr M says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2000 at the same time as Mr M applied for 
a credit card. It gave him accident, sickness and unemployment protection. RBS cant 
confirm how or where the policy was sold, Mr M recalls the sale took place in one of the 
banks branches.
Our adjudicator initially upheld the complaint. She then revised her view after receiving 
additional information on Mr Ms savings  and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed 
so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
The credit card application form that Mr M signed shows that he indicated that he wanted to 
take out PPI by ticking a box. There was nothing on the form that I think could reasonably 
have led him to think it was mandatory. Overall, I think RBS made it clear the PPI was 
optional and Mr M agreed to take it out.
Mr Ms representative suggest if the sale was in a meeting the PPI would have been 
discussed, and I accept this would most likely be the case. However, Ive found no evidence 
the bank looked at Mr Ms circumstances and provided advice. So I think its most likely RBS 
didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M. This means it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. It was up to Mr M to decide whether the policy was right for him bearing in mind his 
ability to make his credit card repayments if he was unable to work or lost his job. 
Its possible RBS didnt give Mr M all the information about the PPI that he needed before he 
made his decision. But it seems Mr M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. Mr M says he was entitled to six 
months full pay and six months half pay if he was sick but the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this and for up to 12 months. 
We first understood Mr M to have savings of £6,300 but from the additional information the 
bank provided it seems whilst Mr had significant credits into his account(s) at around this 
time they were not held as savings and the majority of the money had left his accounts a few 
weeks later. This ties in with his initial testimony where he said he was struggling financially 
when he applied for the credit card. He has said more recently he cant recall exact savings 
values from 2000 but he was able to suggest the possible source of any savings if he had 
any. Overall, I havent seen enough evidence to conclude Mr M would have had ongoing 
access to savings of such a level that he didnt need PPI. And the PPI would have allowed 
him to use any savings he did have to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to 
keep them intact for his future needs.
So, based on what I know about his circumstances and the terms of the PPI policy, I dont 
think Mr M wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided. 
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this by way of a refund against the value of the outstanding balance on Mr Ms card 
when it was closed, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman