DRN-1615762
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc showed her full name on correspondence which 
she says breaches her personal security. Shes unhappy with the impact of the solution 
Sainsburys offered, and its overall policy around this issue.
What happened
When Mrs S applied for a credit card with Sainsburys, she included her middle name in the 
application. Sainsburys recorded this in her account details. Sainsburys says that its 
systems are linked, and any correspondence is sent out to the name set out in the account 
details. 
Sainsburys says the middle name is captured as part of its policy, and its used as part of its 
identification process. This is also how it differentiates between people living in the same 
address with the same forename. Sainsburys says theres no way to change the name on 
its system to only impact the name on the statement.
Mrs S says shes been a victim of ID fraud in the past, and her middle name isnt common 
knowledge. She says shed often find letters hanging outside of her letter box  so 
Sainsburys including her full name on the statement left her vulnerable to fraud.
Before we were able to look into the complaint, Sainsburys offered to remove Mrs S middle 
name from its records entirely. But this meant she wouldnt be able to disclose her middle 
name when she was asked security questions. This would also cause delays if she ever had 
to send in identification, as the name wouldnt match on Sainsburys systems. And it would 
have to record it in its systems again.
Mrs S then asked Sainsburys to remove her middle name from its systems so it wouldnt 
appear on any further correspondence  and it did that. But she wasnt happy how long it 
took for Sainsburys to offer this solution, and about the impact this now had. She wants a 
review of Sainsburys policy to use its customers full names on correspondence, as this 
leaves people vulnerable to fraud. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs S complaint. Whilst she didnt think Sainsburys had 
done anything wrong by following its policy, she didnt think it had given Mrs S all the options 
available. Sainsburys sent us information to show that in addition to removing Mrs S middle 
name completely, there wouldve also been an option to include an initial. This option wasnt 
offered to Mrs S. And our investigator thought that at least with this option, Mrs S couldve 
disclosed she had a middle name  albeit only disclosing the initial. So, she thought 
Sainsburys should pay Mrs S £50 to recognise the unnecessary trouble and upset caused.
Mrs S was happy with the investigators findings, but Sainsburys wasnt. It said that Mrs S 
has said throughout that she wants her middle name removed  so thats what it offered to 
do. Sainsburys also said that the impact was the same whether the middle name was 
removed or only an initial showed. So, Sainsburys asked for the complaint to be considered 
by an ombudsman.
I then sent my provisional findings to both parties.I accepted keeping her personal information safe was very important to Mrs S. But for me to 
ask Sainsburys to pay her compensation, I needed to make a finding that it had done 
something wrong. And overall, I didnt think it had.
Sainsburys had explained that its systems are linked, and the way in which it records a 
customers name will be how it appears on any correspondence thats sent out. I thought this 
was a commercial decision made by Sainsburys that it was entitled to make. And I didnt 
think including Mrs S middle name on a letter addressed to her meant that Sainsburys 
wasnt keeping her personal information safe.
But I also thought about Mrs S personal circumstances to see if Sainsburys had acted fairly. 
When Mrs S first approached Sainsburys about the issue, I didnt think it was unreasonable 
for it to explain why the name was displayed as it was. And when she raised this as a 
complaint, Sainsburys offered a solution to work around its systems. But overall, I didnt 
think it had done anything wrong by including Mrs S middle name in its letters in the first 
place.
Sainsburys responded to say it had nothing further to add. Mrs S responded in more detail. 
In summary, she said that:
Sainsburys only offered her a choice about removing her name after shed 
approached us,
for several months before this it showed no consideration of her concern  
Sainsburys suggested she could close her account and move her balance 
elsewhere, but this wouldve incurred charges from the new provider,
she still feels vulnerable to ID fraud as Sainsburys is not holding her full details, and
having her full name on post gave the potential to share this information unknowingly.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional findings, I dont think Sainsburys did anything wrong by including 
Mrs S middle name in the correspondence it sent to her. And considering the impact of 
removing her middle name can have on Mrs S further contact with Sainsburys, I dont think 
it acted unreasonably by not offering this as an option early on. But it has since offered a 
resolution to Mrs S concerns  as far as its systems allow.
I sympathise with Mrs S that she still feels vulnerable, considering shes previously been a 
victim of ID fraud. But for the reasons I already explained, I dont think what Sainsburys has 
done is unfair or unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman