DRN-2226032
The complaint
Mr H has complained about a loan he took out through a company called The One Stop 
Money Shop Limited. Ill refer mainly to Money Shop throughout this decision, for 
consistency. 
Mr H says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loan caused him financial problems.
What happened
We now know that he took out one loan from Money Shop, in 2019. Ive enclosed a 
summary of his borrowing with Money Shop based on the information provided to us:
Loan Taken Out Amount Term Highest Repayment
1 03/10/2019 £600 12 months £95
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Hs complaint.
Money Shop needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
H could repay the loan he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have 
taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Money Shop should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Money Shop told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr H, including 
assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. Im not going to list everything it did 
but suffice to say Ive looked over the checks it carried out very thoroughly. 
I see Mr H declared his net income (after tax) as £2,500 per month and he also provided 
details about his expenditure. However, it looks like Money Shop did spot that that his usual 
income was lower than this and it also carried out checks on his payslip expenditure items to 
ensure his declared outgoings were accurate. On the basis of this  and what Mr H himself 
declared to Money Shop - I think the repayments on the loan would have looked affordable. 
Overall however, the other checks Money Shop carried out seem would have revealed 
some, but certainly not all, of Mr Hs overall financial profile. Money Shop says that based on 
what was revealed by its checking procedure, the information showed that Mr H would be 
able to make the loan repayments he was committing to. 
Ive also looked carefully at what Mr H has said in response to our adjudicators view that his 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. I accept that we now know that Mr H was experiencing 
difficulties elsewhere and hed gotten himself into financial trouble. He was obviously having 
trouble managing money. But looking at all this through the lens of what Money Shop knew 
at the time, I think the checks it carried out indicated this loan was sustainable. So, Im afraid 
I dont think theres enough evidence to uphold his complaint. 
As Ive said above, our normal approach to these types of loan is that the early lending 
relationship usually means less thorough checks are proportionate. Im not aware that Mr Hs 
income  or what he himself told Money Shop at the point of application  revealed or 
suggested he was vulnerable. And none of the three issues Ive bullet-pointed above are 
apparent, so Im not going to deviate from that approach.
Whilst I agree its probable that much more thorough financial checks would have exposed 
Mr Hs challenging financial situation better, he was still at the very beginning of a lending 
relationship with this particular business. And there doesnt seem to be anything that would 
have caused Money Shop to carry out more detailed checks or think he was in financial 
trouble or might be unable to pay this loan back. In short, I think the checks carried out in 
this case were proportionate and so there isnt enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Money Shop Limited to pay Mr H any compensation. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 
5 November 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman