DRN-1345904
 
The complaint
Miss A says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1996 in one of the banks 
branches. The policy was taken out at the same time as Miss A applied for the credit card. It 
gave her protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss As complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss A says no options about PPI were explained to her when she took out her credit card. I 
cant know what was discussed in the meeting or how the PPI was presented to Miss A. But 
on Miss As application form I can see PPI was selected, indicating she wanted the cover. 
And there was nothing on the form that I think could reasonably have led her to believe it 
was mandatory. So, overall, I think its most likely Halifax made Miss A aware the PPI was 
optional, and she chose to take it. I can understand she might not remember this given how 
long ago the sale was.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss A, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Miss A says she was entitled to 
six months full pay and six months half pay from her employer if she was sick, but the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to this and for up to 12 months. It also gave her up to 12 
months redundancy cover, so she could have protected any lump sum redundancy payment 
from her employer, giving her increased financial stability at a difficult time. So, overall, I 
think PPI wouldve been useful to Miss A if she lost her job or was sick and unable to work.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Miss A chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type 
of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Miss A wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think she would still 
have taken out the policy.
It follows I dont think Miss A has lost out because of any problems with the sale.My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman