DRN-3656081
The complaint
Miss J complains that she was provided with inappropriate advice, or insufficient information, 
by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited about making some additional pension contributions.
What happened
The advice that was provided to Miss J was from a representative of Colonial Mutual. That 
firm is now the responsibility of Aviva, so it is Aviva that is required to deal with this 
complaint. For ease, in this decision, I will refer to Aviva as the responsible business 
throughout. And Miss J has been assisted in making her complaint by a claims management 
company (CMC). But, again for ease, in this decision I will refer to all communication on the 
complaint as being from, and to, Miss J herself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Aviva needed to do to put things 
right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness 
and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my 
decision I said;
In 1995 Miss J was aged 49 and was a teacher. She had been a member of her 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) for almost 20 years. She recalls that she met 
with a representative of Aviva at her school in May 1995, and later in October 1995.
Following those meetings Aviva advised Miss J that she should make additional 
provision for her retirement by making Free-Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contributions (FSAVCs). It noted that it had suggested that Miss J could alternatively 
make Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVCs) to the OPS, or alternatively 
purchase added years benefits from the scheme. But it noted that, having compared 
the costs and benefits of the various options, Miss J wished to proceed with the 
FSAVC contract.
Miss J started paying FSAVCs in December 1995. She stopped making the 
contributions in May 1997 when she said her financial situation was not as good as it 
had been in the past. Although the option was available to Miss J, she didnt restart 
her contributions before she retired.
The advisor that met with Miss J was what was known as a tied advisor. That 
meant they could only recommend products offered by Aviva. They couldnt actively 
recommend any other products from any other product providers including the 
in-house options (AVCs or added years) offered by the OPS.
However, a tied adviser was required to follow rules set in 1988 by the regulator at 
that time - LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation). 
The LAUTRO Code said advisers should maintain high standards of integrity and fair 
dealing, exercise due skill, care and diligence in providing any services, and 
generally take proper account of the interests of investors. It added that businesses 
should:
Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights 
they may have under an occupational scheme, and
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the 
representative in question.
So, this means that tied advisers should have known that in-house AVC options 
would most likely be available to consumers like Miss J. And in addition to 
highlighting the benefits of the FSAVC, a tied advisor needed to mention the generic 
benefits of the in-house options, including that:
Money purchase in house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than 
the FSAVCs
Added years might be available under a defined benefit OPS
The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer 
paid into either in-house option.
 
The advice that Miss J was given by Aviva was provided more than 25 years ago. So 
it might not be surprising if some of the documentation from the time is no longer 
available. Ive noted that an internal checklist from the time suggests that a fact find 
document should have been produced following the meetings with Miss J. And that 
requirement is also noted on the OPS illustration that was provided to Miss J. Aviva 
hasnt provided a copy of any fact find from the time, so I dont know whether one 
was produced, or if it is simply no longer available. But it does mean that I can only 
base my decision on the information that has now been provided.
Miss J first met with Aviva in May 1995. It seems that at, or shortly after, that meeting 
Miss J was provided with a personalised illustration of the benefits she had accrued 
under the OPS. The document also says the following;
You have three options for increasing your main scheme pension. You can 
purchase Past Added Years, pay into a Scheme AVC or pay into a Free 
Standing AVC. You MUST examine all three options before making a choice.
And following a subsequent meeting, in October of that year, she was provided with a 
document titled Your Financial Planning Summary. Within that document was a 
section relating to retirement planning, that contained the following paragraph;
When advising you to take out an FSAVC, I asked you on 02/10/95 to 
investigate and compare the costs and benefits of the Past Added Years and 
Scheme AVC options available from your current pension scheme. Having 
had an opportunity to do this, you now wish to proceed with the Colonial 
contract.
So I dont think it would be unreasonable to conclude that Aviva made Miss J aware 
that she had a number of options available to her in order to make her additional 
pension contributions. But Im not currently persuaded that the information above is 
sufficient to conclude that Aviva met its regulatory responsibilities.
Generally it would be unlikely that a tied advisor would have access to the 
information that would be required in order to provide a detailed comparison between 
an AVC and a FSAVC option. So that is why the regulator would generally consider 
the provision of generic information to be sufficient. But I dont think that Aviva has 
gone far enough in the provision of that information here..Miss J recalls that the initial meeting took place at the school where she worked. The
two-page illustration provided to Miss J, showing her OPS benefits, contained some 
quite detailed information about how the OPS operated and how its benefits were 
structured. And Ive noted that the application form Miss J completed for the FSAVC 
noted a Special Connection as being NAS/UWT Special Series 1. So from that 
I assume the FSAVC plan offered some sort of special terms for members of those 
teaching trade unions.
So I think it would be reasonable to conclude that the advisor from Aviva might have 
had a better than normal understanding of the structure and charges of the AVC 
scheme offered by the OPS. And I think that, more detailed, information is something 
that should have been shared with Miss J before she was asked to accept Avivas 
recommendation and take the FSAVC contract.
 
But even if a different interpretation on that specific point was possible, as I noted 
earlier I would in any case have expected to see some evidence that Miss J was 
made aware that an AVC scheme would most likely have lower charges than a 
comparative FSAVC product. I cannot conclude, from the evidence Aviva has 
provided, that those sorts of discussions took place. Although Miss J was directed 
towards the OPS administrator to discover further information about the in-house 
options, I think it quite likely she might have found it difficult to generate any 
meaningful comparison between the costs of the two options.
Miss J had been a teacher for around 20 years and had around 10 years left to 
retirement. I havent seen anything that makes me think she had any intention of 
leaving her profession, and so needing the flexibility or portability a FSAVC product 
might provide. I think that, had Miss J been given all the required information from the 
outset, it is likely she would have opted to take an in-house AVC option, as it likely 
offered her substantially the same product at most likely a cheaper cost.
So I currently think that Miss Js complaint should be upheld. I intend to direct Aviva 
to put things right as set out below.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Miss J said that she agreed with my provisional decision and had 
nothing further to add. Aviva didnt agree with my findings and provided some additional 
comments. Although I am only summarising what Aviva has said here I want to stress that 
I have read, and carefully considered, Avivas entire submission.
Aviva says that the CMC that has helped Miss J with her complaint is of the opinion that, if 
consumers were made aware of the lower charges on an AVC, they would never have taken 
a FSAVC  or in other words that all FSAVCs were mis-sold. But Aviva wanted to stress that 
if that view had been shared by the regulator then it would have required all sales to be 
reviewed rather than just some for specific schemes. Instead it says the regulator simply 
updated its guidance. Aviva says that where it has insufficient evidence to show that it met 
its regulatory responsibilities it upholds complaints.
Aviva pointed out that its advisor was unable to recommend products (such as an AVC) from 
another provider. But they did need to provide generic information about the AVC scheme in 
line with the regulators guidance. It says that product providers were often invited by 
Trades Unions to give talks about insurance products including FSAVCs. But that doesnt 
mean they would have any greater knowledge about the corresponding AVC schemes.Aviva says the illustration confirms that Miss J was made aware of the in-house AVC 
scheme and asked to compare the costs and benefits. It says the in-house information would 
have told Miss J that the main selling point for AVCs over FSAVCs was lower charges. So it 
thinks it is reasonable to conclude that the costs would have been discussed and so its 
advisor met their regulatory responsibilities.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Aviva has said in response to my provisional decision. But 
having done so I am not persuaded that I should alter my provisional conclusions. I would, 
however, like to comment further on the matters that Aviva has raised.
Aviva has provided me with an extract from the regulators rules relating to tied advisors. I do 
note that guidance wasnt issued until May 1996, whereas Miss J was sold the FSAVC in 
October 1995. But, since I consider those regulations to have simply been a restatement of 
the regulations previously in place, I accept Avivas conclusions that they should reasonably 
form the basis of my decision.
The 1996 regulations provided some further clarity to those I set out in my provisional 
decision from the 1988 LAUTRO code. The 1996 regulations said that tied advisors should 
not recommend a FSAVC until they have;
Drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative
Discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking 
account, among other things, of the features described in this article)
Directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more 
information on the in-scheme option
But the article then went on to say that
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, 
reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration 
expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely 
to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the 
client.
I think that statement supports the argument made by the CMC - that Aviva has said is 
contrary to the intentions of the regulator. I have seen nothing to persuade me that Miss Js 
circumstances were such that other features of the FSAVC would make it more attractive to 
her despite the fact that the charges she would need to pay would be greater, and hence the 
value of her pension savings would be lower.
I think that generic difference between the two schemes  that the AVC would offer lower 
charges  should have been known to the advisor without any specific knowledge of the 
AVC scheme. So I dont think it was sufficient for Miss J to simply be directed to the OPS to 
try to gather that information for herself. I think that, had Miss J been given all the required 
information from the outset, it is likely she would have opted to take an in-house AVC option, 
as it likely offered her substantially the same product at most likely a cheaper cost.So I think that Miss Js complaint should be upheld, and I direct Aviva to put things right as 
set out below.
Putting things right
Aviva should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 
1 January 2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to that date and 
the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into a pension plan for Miss J. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into a pension plan isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss J as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in 
retirement  assumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Js complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman