DRN-4394086
The complaint
Ms Y complains that Halifax didnt do enough to protect her from the financial harm caused 
by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money once shed reported the 
scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
On 25th June 2022, Ms Y received a message on social media from someone claiming to 
work for a company Ill refer to as C, who I will refer to as the scammer. The scammer 
said they were recruiting for online part-time investment assistants and Ms Y had been 
looking for employment, so she responded to the message. 
The scammer told Ms Y she could work from home by investing her own money into 
cryptocurrency and that she could receive a commission of £120-£130 for a £100 investment 
and £360-£390 for a £300 investment. Ms Y provided her details to the scammer and was 
given a link to a trading platform, and details of a mentor. She contacted the mentor who 
said she must follow their instructions to win investment revenue. 
After Ms Y had completed her first task, she received a credit of £20. She was then 
instructed to purchase cryptocurrency by transferring money through S and transferring it 
onto the trading platform. She made several payments from another account before 
transferring £6 and £1,800 from her Halifax account on 4 July 2022. 
When she decided she wanted to make a withdrawal, she was told shed have to pay £4,000 
within 24 hours or further fees would be added. So, she borrowed £3,000 and made the 
payment from her Halifax account, but the mentor said shed have to pay a more fees. 
Ms Y realised shed been the victim of a scam when she was unable to raise any more 
money and she lost contact with the broker. She complained to Halifax arguing the 
transactions were out of character as they were much larger than her standard monthly 
payments and were transferred to a payee that was associated with cryptocurrency.
She told Halifax she was suffering financial difficulties, and it should have known this 
because she was a long-standing customer. She said it didnt warn her she could be the 
victim of fraud and it didnt complete adequate checks in relation to the identity of the 
recipient account. 
Her representative said Halifax failed to stop the payments and complete investigations into 
any fraud concerns or to discuss the basis of the transactions before releasing the funds to 
the recipient account. 
Halifax refused to refund any of the money Ms Y had lost. It said she didnt carry out any 
checks on C, or query how they had got her contact details or why they were contacting 
people in the UK when they are based in America. And it said that if shed googled the 
phone number, shed have seen a warning that C was associated with a scam.
It said the first payment was for £6, so she didnt receive an online scam warning. And the 
other two payments were within her normal spending pattern, so it didnt miss an opportunity 
to intervene. It said it was signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, 
but as the money was going to an account in M Ys name, it wasnt covered by the code.  
Ms Y wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service with the help of her 
representative. They disagreed the payments werent covered under the CRM on the basis 
Halifax would have been fully aware the payments related to cryptocurrency and should 
have been deemed high risk.
The representative said the transactions were out of character as they were larger than her 
historic transactions and the payee was out of the norm for payments from her account. 
They explained Ms Y was desperate for a job and had accepted the opportunity as she was 
in financial difficulties. She doesnt know how the scammer got her details, but she had 
completed online job searches and applications. Shes never been a victim of fraud and had 
no investment experience, so she didnt know to check the FCA website.
Our investigator didnt think the payments were unusual when compared to Ms Ys regular 
account activity, so she didnt think Halifax missed an opportunity to intervene. She accepted 
the payment of £1,800 reduced the account balance significantly, but she said Ms Y 
regularly entered her overdraft, so this wasnt unusual.
Ms Y has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Her representative 
doesnt agree £1,800 and £3,000 werent unusual as she rarely made transactions over 
£900, so the fraudulent sums were out of character. They also reiterated the recipient bank 
was out of the norm and argued that Ms Y doesnt regularly enter her overdraft. 
They further argued Halifax ought reasonably to have considered the initial payment was out 
of character for Ms Ys account as it was towards the top end of the value of transactions, 
and it was associated with cryptocurrency. They have stated Ms Ys statements show the 
average outgoing payment in June 2022 was £110, so £3,000 was an increase of 
approximately 2,627% and ought to have flagged as suspicious. They accept Ms Y made 
some large payments in the twelve months before the payments, but argue these were to 
well-established payees and friends, as opposed to unregulated cryptocurrency platforms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Ms Y has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Ms Y says shes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax said the CRM code didnt apply in this case 
because the payments were to an account in Ms Ys own name, and Im satisfied thats fair.
Im also satisfied Ms Y authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Ms Y is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Ms Y didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did 
authorise the disputed payments. Halifax is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Halifax could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity however, Halifax had an obligation 
to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to 
consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Ms Y when she tried to make the 
payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Halifax to 
intervene with a view to protecting Ms Y from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Halifaxs systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Ms Y 
normally ran her account, and I dont think they were. This is because all the payments were 
to a legitimate payee and none of them were for particularly large amounts, nor were they 
out of character for the usual spending on the account.
The first payment was only £6, so even though it was to a new payee which was associated 
with cryptocurrency, it wasnt unusual for the spending on the account, and I dont think it 
ought to have triggered Halifaxs fraud systems.
By the time Ms Y made the second and third payments, the payee wasnt new, and they 
werent so large that Halifax needed to intervene. I note Ms Ys representative has said the 
£1,800 payment took her into her overdraft, but this wasnt the first time her account had 
been in overdraft, so it wasnt cause for concern. Her representative has also said it was 
unusual for Ms Y to pay a cryptocurrency merchant, but it was a legitimate company who Ms 
Y had paid before, so I dont accept the payments were suspicious.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Ms Y has lost 
money and the effect this has had on her. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
Halifax is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman