DRN-3701118
The complaint
Mr D complains about advice he and his wife received from Skipton Building Society 
(SBS). He also complains about details SBS included when answering questions about 
trusts set up as a result of the advice.
What happened
SBS wrote a personalised report for Mr D and his wife in June 2018. The report looked at 
ways to invest to reduce inheritance tax on their estates.
The report recommended changing some investments so they could be put in a discretionary 
trust. The intended beneficiary of that trust lived in France. The report recommended non-UK 
based beneficiaries seek professional and legal advice in their country of residence before 
we set up any existing trusts.
In July 2018, Mr D sent an email to SBS saying he and his wife were satisfied with the 
recommended investments. But they didnt wish to go ahead with the trusts. It appears some 
phone calls then clarified that the issue was the French tax position.
After speaking to SBS on the phone, Mr D and his wife decided to go ahead with the trust. 
And based on what was done in 2018, they set up similar trusts between then and 2020. But 
 in late 2020  the French tax authority wanted details about the trusts.
To support the response to that request, Mr D asked SBS for some details about the trusts. 
SBS replied in an email, and then  as requested  on letterheaded paper. But Mr D felt 
SBSs answers gave unwanted extra details for some of the questions.
The situation gave rise to this complaint. Mr D believes the trusts beneficiary may incur a 
French tax liability when they receive the trusts money. He feels thats different to what SBS 
had advised. He says if hed been told about this more accurately, he and his wife would 
have found another way to manage their estates inheritance tax bills, that didnt involve 
these trusts. 
SBS noted their written recommendation in 2018 had specifically said the non-UK based 
beneficiaries of the trust should get advice before going ahead. They felt everything theyd 
said had been consistent with that recommendation. And they felt satisfied that their letter in 
2020 gave a reasonable response to the questions theyd been asked. So they said they 
wouldnt change what theyd written.
Unresolved, the complaint came to us. I explained in my provisional decision that I didnt 
intend to uphold either part of this complaint. As this was a different view to our investigator, 
I asked both sides to let me know their thoughts, before I made a final decision. 
SBS have confirmed they have nothing to add at this point. Mr D has commented, to explain 
why he feels the complaint should be upheld. 
Within those comments, Mr D has told us his wife died earlier this year. Im sorry to hear 
that. I note Mr Ds confirmed hell be the sole complainant for the case now. Ive reworded 
parts of my decision  where suitable  to reflect that. 
Mr D has highlighted what he disliked in SBSs letter, and why he feels these were 
inaccuracies. Hes also discussed the July 2018 calls further, to explain why he went ahead 
with the discretionary trusts for these investments, based on what SBS told him about 
French taxes. Mr D has also said that he would have explored another way to pass his 
estate to his family, without the investments or trusts. 
With no agreement about how to resolve this complaint, Ill make a final decision for it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided my provisional decision was the right one for this case. So Im 
going to make that my final decision. Ill repeat the details here. But Ill add to those to 
explain why Mr Ds comments havent changed the outcome. 
A key part of reviewing this case has been to think about what was said in the two phone 
calls in July 2018. Both sides agree these calls happened. But we dont have a recording of 
what was said. 
I appreciate Mr D feels there should be some criticism or sanction against SBS for that. But 
that isnt really the purpose of the ombudsman scheme. We tell a business what it needs to 
do to put things right for complainants who have received unfair or unreasonable treatment 
from them. But we dont punish businesses for failing to meet a certain standard of service. 
Last time, I compared notes Mr D says he wrote at the time about what was said with 
recollections SBSs advisor had given us two years after the conversations. Im still of the 
view thats the best way here to consider what was said. 
Ive first looked at what the notes and the advisers recollection agree about. Where theres 
agreement, I think its likely thats because both sides are referring to things as they were.
Its agreed that French taxes were discussed. That the adviser tried to get Mr D some 
information about the impact these could have on the trust. That SBS had an opinion that the 
taxation of the trusts in the UK meant they probably wouldnt be taxed in France. And that 
there was mention of the beneficiary getting their own advice about the tax position.
Last time, I wrote about the difference between providing information and providing advice. 
SBSs regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority explains the difference in their handbook  
specifically part 8.28 of the Perimeter Guidance Manual. That explanation is specific about 
investment advice, but as thats ultimately what drove SBSs interactions with Mr D, I find it 
reasonable to apply the principles to the advice in general.
One of the points made there is that the provision of purely factual information does not 
become regulated advice merely because it feeds into the customers own decision-making 
process. So while I appreciate that Mr D says the information SBS gave him led to him 
setting up the discretionary trusts, that alone wont make it advice, as defined by SBSs 
regulator. Another point the regulator makes is that key to the giving of advice is that the information is 
accompanied by comment or value judgement on the relevance of that information to the 
customers investment decision.
Much of whats agreed in both accounts looks  to me  to be information being provided. It 
lacks value judgements or comments to recommend it to Mr D. So things like you should do 
this because, rather than simply explaining the benefits of a particular approach. 
But the mention of the beneficiary getting their own advice about the tax position  called a 
suggestion in Mr Ds note and a recommendation in the advisers recollection  did amount 
to advice in my view.
With that said, the advice to seek extra advice from someone more familiar with the topic 
would be reasonable. It shows SBS werent holding themselves out to be complete and 
reliable sources of information about French taxes.
I appreciate Mr D says his understanding of the suggestion was that the beneficiary would 
need advice if the tax rules changed in the future. I can see thats in his notes, and the 
adviser recalls the chance of changes to the law during the life of the trust being discussed. 
But that stops short in my view of SBS saying they had given definitive advice on the issue. 
In Mr Ds own note, the situation was noted to be complicated, not certain. And there was 
discussion about how much tax would be payable, if tax did apply to the trust or its 
beneficiary. So I dont see SBS saying  definitively  that the discretionary trust would 
definitely mean no French tax would be payable. It seems always to have been regarded as 
a possibility. The suggestion to seek further advice seems to follow as much from that, as 
from a concern that the laws could change in the future. 
Mr Ds note records the adviser saying the positive inheritance tax consequences from 
having the investment in a trust would be much better than the possible French tax 
implications of doing things that way. That tips over into advice, in my opinion. But I think its 
notable that the advice is based on having the investments in trust or not. I dont see this as 
unregulated tax advice. Its linked back to the advice from June 2018, which was about using 
trusts to limit the inheritance tax that could apply to the investments.
The situation being advised on here may not be too far from the one the trust and its 
beneficiary will face. Mr D is upset tax could be payable in France when the beneficiary 
receives money from the trust. But the advice above was based on tax possibly being 
payable in France. The key was whether this would be less than the tax payable if there was 
no trust.
We dont seem to have a clear indication that more tax will now be payable because the 
trusts exist. I note Mr D has provided some information he found online about French taxes. 
But that stops short of saying what is going to happen specifically to his investments. 
Without something specific like that, I cant see enough here to safely conclude how the trust 
or its beneficiary might be affected. 
So it looks like some specialist advice will be needed for the trust and its beneficiary to know 
what position theyre in, and whether that would have been any better without the trust. That 
then calls back to SBSs advice  both in the report from June 2018 and noted by both sides 
to be mentioned in the call in July 2018  the beneficiary should get some advice about the 
foreign tax position. Things seem to be as SBS have consistently advised, in that sense.
As such, I find no reason to say SBS should be liable for the tax position  which in any case 
doesnt look to be confirmed as worse than it would have been without the trusts. Nor should they have to refund the cost of their investment advice  which notably said tax could be 
payable in France, and recommended specialist advice to understand that  because the 
position the trust is now in seems consistent with that advice.
Turning to the 2020 letter, Ive seen that SBS wrote it to answer some questions about the 
trusts. I still dont have a copy of the trust deeds to consider the accuracy of what they wrote. 
But Im still of the view that the main issue for Mr D is that the letter wasnt as helpful to him 
as hed hoped it would be.
While I appreciate the letter wont be as useful as Mr D perhaps hoped, I cant fault SBS for 
writing it the way they have. They do not  after all  define the trust. The trust deed does. If 
Mr D wants to explain the trust to the French tax authorities, that deed would be the 
definitive piece of evidence. Everything else is simply representing that information, in 
different styles. 
SBSs style may not have matched what Mr D wanted. But its reasonable. It explains the 
trust, its trustees, and its beneficiaries, in response to the question they were asked. They 
didnt have to write the letter exactly as Mr D wanted it, to still provide a reasonable level of 
service. 
Given the above, it follows that Im not going to uphold either part of this complaint.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman