DRN-1757586
 
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy Allianz Insurance Plc hasn't paid a claim she made under her pet 
insurance in full.
What happened
Miss D made a claim on her insurance policy after her cat was unwell and received 
treatment. Allianz accepted Miss Ds claim but said theyd only pay the maximum benefit 
allowed under the policy of £2,500. Miss D didn't think this was correct and said she had a 
higher benefit limit. She said a previous claim had been paid up to this limit and said when 
her representative called Allianz, they were told that the limit was £7,500 not £2,500 as had 
been suggested. 
Miss D also raised other points including that the claim should have been considered as two 
separate claims but was processed as one. And she said she hadn't been provided 
notification of the change in insurer or benefit limit.
Allianz reviewed Miss Ds complaint and said the benefit limit had always been £2,500 and 
the previous claim had also only been settled within this limit. They acknowledged during a 
phone call Miss D was incorrectly told the benefit limit was £7,500, so they offered to pay 
50% of the additional vets costs above the £2,500 benefit limit, which amounted to 
£1,386.52. Allianz didn't agree the policy documentation wasn't provided so felt generally 
Miss D should have been aware of the benefit limit. As Miss D disagreed, she brought the 
complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed Miss Ds complaint and said she should have been aware of her 
benefit limit because the renewal letters confirmed the limit and were issued every year. She 
also said as the previous insurers had paid the maximum amount allowed under the policy 
for the previous claim, so this should also have made Miss D aware of her limit. Therefore, 
she didn't think it would be fair to ask Allianz to pay anymore. She acknowledged Allianz 
gave Miss D some incorrect information during a call but felt the compensation offered by 
Allianz was sufficient. 
Miss D wasn't happy with our investigators opinion and the case has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss D but I dont uphold this complaint. I have to decide whether 
Allianzs settlement of the claim and compensation for the error was fair and reasonable and 
I think it was. Ill explain why.Miss D was provided incorrect information during a call in August 2018 when she was told 
the benefit limit was £7,500  so Ive considered if this had a significant impact on her 
decision to continue treatment for her cat. When Miss D originally complained she was 
adamant her policy benefit limit had always been £7,500 and thought  it was only changed 
by the new underwriter when they took over in 2014 without notifying her.   
To consider what benefit limit did apply to Miss Ds policy Ive been provided copies of the 
letters and annual renewals sent to Miss D over the years she had the policy. I have seen 
the letters sent to Miss D confirming the change in underwriter and what Miss D could do if 
she didn't want to renew. There was no mention of a change to the benefit limit in any of 
these letters. Ive also seen the renewals set out the policy terms and the benefit limit, and it 
was always £2,500 each year. 
The correspondence was correctly addressed, and whilst I accept that not all post reaches 
its destination and recipients, it remains that the vast majority of correctly addressed post is 
correctly delivered. So, in the absence of independent evidence to the contrary (for example, 
evidence that Miss D was experiencing postal problems at the time), on balance I am 
satisfied that the letters would, most likely, have been correctly received.
But Miss D has maintained her policy limit was always £7,500, and shes said she didn't 
proactively ask about the benefit limit on any calls with the business. In August 2018 Miss 
Ds representative called Allianz on a couple of occasions, and he was told varying 
information about the benefit limit on these calls. In one call he was told the correct limit of 
£2,500 and a few days later the incorrect limit of £7,500, but Miss D or her representative 
didn't question the inconsistent information. 
Miss D also said a previous claim had paid more than £7,500 in 2008 and this was paid by 
the insurer at the time. But Allianz have provided some internal notes from her vets showing 
the claim was for £2,667.72, and they also have confirmed that only the maximum benefit 
under the policy of £2,500 was paid. 
Having considered all the evidence, I cant be certain what action Miss D would have taken 
had she been given the correct information. But it seems like she always thought her benefit 
limit was £7,500 even though she is likely to have received the annual renewals, the details 
of previous claim and the information in the first call in August 2018 confirming the benefit 
limit of £2,500. Taking this into consideration, I cant safely say she would have done 
something different had she been given the right information on the second call. So, I dont 
think its likely that this information significantly affected her decision to continue treatment, 
because  she always thought her benefit limit was £7,500.
Allianz acknowledged it did provide Miss D with incorrect information so offered to pay 
£1,386.52 for the inconvenience caused and I think that is reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss D also complained that the claim should have been considered as two separate claims. 
The first for the original vet's investigation/treatment and then the second claim for the vet 
her cat was referred to for further treatment. But the second vet felt the conditions were 
linked and treated them as related conditions on the claim form, so Allianz settled the claim 
on the basis that this was one claim. 
Allianz in their final response said they would be willing to look at the claims again if Miss D 
could provide further information from her vet about the treatments being different 
conditions, but nothing has been provided, so I dont think Allianz has done anything wrong 
here. Ive thought carefully about everything Miss D has said, and although I may not have 
highlighted everything shes said in this decision, I want her to know Ive read it and taken it 
into account. But overall Im satisfied Allianz havent treated Miss D unreasonably, so I wont 
be asking them to take any other action than what they have already offered.
My final decision
Allianz Insurance Plc has already made an offer to pay £1,386.52 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Allianz Insurance Plc should pay £1,386.52, if it hasn't done so 
already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 July 2020.
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman