DRN-4285464
The complaint
Mr R complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford) unfairly 
cancelled his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr R took out a motor insurance policy with Watford with effect from November 2022. He 
says the policy was later cancelled without an explanation why. 
Mr R wants the cancellation to be removed from his record as this has increased the cost for 
him to find alternative cover. 
When Mr R contacted our service we referred his complaint onto his insurer. Hed previously 
been in contact with his broker. His insurer sent him a final complaint response in July 2023. 
It said Mr Rs policy was cancelled with effect from 2 March. This was because he failed to 
provide, via his broker, the documentation it requested. This was to validate the information 
hed provided. 
Watford says the broker did receive the requested documentation after the policy was 
cancelled. But at this point, as underwriter for Mr Rs policy, it was responsible for 
authorising any reinstatement. Watford says it carried out checks at this time and found 
evidence of links to other fraudulent applications. As a result, it confirmed to Mr Rs broker 
that the policy must remain cancelled. 
Mr R thought hed been treated unfairly and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says Watford had acted within the terms of Mr 
Rs policy by relying on a fraud condition to cancel the policy.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Let me explain. 
I can see that Mr Rs broker wrote to him on behalf of Watford at the end of November 2022. 
It asked him to provide various documents to allow its validation process to be completed. 
The letter explains that if it didnt hear from Mr R within 16 days the policy may be voided or 
cancelled. 
Mr Rs broker wrote to him again on 21 February 2023. The letter sets out a further list of 
information and documents that Watford needed to ensure it had offered cover on the 
correct terms. The letter says if it doesnt hear from Mr R by 1 March 2023, or if all the 
information isnt provided by this date, the policy will be immediately cancelled or voided. A 
letter was then sent to Mr R on 2 March 2023 confirming his policy had been cancelled. It 
says it believes he may have acted dishonestly when arranging the policy.  
Mr R emailed his broker around a week later to make clear that hed declared his driving 
conviction when he applied for the policy. He also says that hed provided the documents 
requested of him. Mr Rs broker responded to say Watford has exercised its right to cancel 
his policy due to discrepancies itd found. It says the policy wasnt cancelled because of his 
driving conviction. 
In a later emailed response Mr Rs broker says it doesnt have the full details for the 
cancellation as it isnt privy to this information. But it reaffirmed that Watford had cancelled 
the policy because of discrepancies between this policy and others in Mr Rs name. It says 
because of this Watford was no longer willing to offer cover. 
We asked Watford to provide information to support its cancellation of Mr Rs policy for 
reasons of fraud. Im not able to share this information due to its sensitive nature. But I have 
carefully considered what it provided when deciding if Watford treated Mr R fairly. I think it 
did. 
Watfords policy terms are clear that it can cancel the policy with immediate effect on the 
grounds of fraud. Im satisfied Watford acted reasonably and according to its policy terms 
when cancelling Mr Rs policy for this reason. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr R, but 
Ive not seen reason to require Watford to remove its policy cancellation marker. So, I cant 
fairly ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman