DRN-3461108
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about the poor handling of a claim made on their home contents 
insurance provided by Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas).
What happened
Mr and Mrs S suffered a fire at their home on 13 March 2021 and made a claim on their 
home contents insurance. 
Ageas arranged for a disaster recovery company (D) to attend a few days later. D reported 
that the property was uninhabitable, all contents had been affected by the fire and the 
damage was consistent with the claim.  Mr S says D told him that any reusable items would 
be cleaned and returned to them. He says D put sentimental items and clothes in plastic 
bags and left them inside the property. D says it asked Mr S for a list of damaged contents 
and their value but Mr S said he couldnt provide this without input from Mrs S who was still 
too traumatised by the fire to assist. 
Around 23 March 2021, Ageas appointed its loss adjuster (L) to Mr and Mrs Ss claim. Mr S 
says Ageas visited the property on 25 March 2021.
 
Around the middle of April 2021, Mr and Mrs S complained about the delays in the handling 
of their claim.
  
During the handling of their claim, Mr and Mrs S contacted Ageas and L a number of times. 
For example, on 7 May 2021 Mr S emailed Ageas because possessions were still inside the 
property and he felt they were at risk of further damage. And on 17 May 2021, Mr S called 
Ageas because he needed items related to his work returned to him.
 
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to us. They said that:
despite contacting Ageas and L numerous times about their claim theyd still not 
been told of its outcome. They said L told them its waiting on instruction from Ageas 
but Ageas say L is handling the claim;
their damaged possessions were still inside the property and hadnt been returned to 
them as promised;
theyd not been told by Ageas that D and L had been appointed to the claim before D 
and L had contacted them directly;
theyd not been provided with updates theyd been promised about the progress of 
their claim; and
theyd received calls from various agencies asking for their details and for payments.
Mr and Mrs S said that the delay had meant theyd had to use credit cards to buy new beds, 
sofas and clothes. 
On 15 July 2021, Ageas issued its final response letter (FRL) to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. It 
said the delays Mr and Mrs S had experienced were essential in validating their claim. It said 
that although regular updates hadnt been available, it had provided updates to Mr and Mrs 
S during the validation process. The FRL noted that a decision about Mr and Mrs Ss claim 
had not yet been made. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. She didnt think thered been 
unnecessary delays and felt Mr and Mrs S had been kept updated. She said there was no 
evidence that thered been calls asking for payments. 
Mrs and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
After Id considered all the available evidence to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I reached a different outcome to our investigator. Because 
the outcome was different, I issued a provisional decision giving both parties a further 
chance to comment on my findings ahead of issuing my final decision. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision was that I was minded to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I 
explained my provisional findings to both parties as follows: 
The appointment of D and L 
Ageas provided systems notes it says show it texted Mr S on the 15 March 2021 telling him 
itd appointed D and again on the 23 March 2021 telling him itd appointed L. Both these 
texts appear to have been sent before D and L first attended Mr and Mrs Ss property. 
But Ageas systems notes also show that Mr S contacted it on 31 March 2021 asking it if L 
and D had been appointed. And Mr and Mrs S told us the number Ageas texted was Mr Ss 
old number. 
Mr S told us he didnt tell Ageas his new number because he preferred to be contacted by 
email.  So I asked Ageas about Mr and Mrs Ss contact preferences. Ageas sent copies of 
records showing Mr and Mrs Ss most recent contact preference as post and said it no 
longer held information about their earlier contact preferences. Ageas also told us that Mr S 
asked on 5 May 2021 and 18 May 2021 for updates to be emailed to him. And on 16 August 
2021, Mr S emailed Ageas to say hed need to be contacted by email. But these requests 
were made after D and L had been appointed and the texts sent to Mr Ss old number, which 
its reasonable for Ageas to have thought was Mr Ss current number.
Mr S contacted Ageas and L many times by phone about his claim. And on 5 May 2021 
when Ageas called Mr S and he was too busy to take the call, he asked Ageas to email or 
text him instead. 
Im satisfied then that Ageas tried to tell Mr and Mrs S about Ds and Ls appointment in a 
timely way. I dont think on balance it was unreasonable for Ageas do this by texting Mr S 
when it did and I dont think its unreasonable that Ageas sent the texts to Mr Ss old number. 
Calls from agencies 
Ageas instructed a second loss adjuster (S) by mistake on 23 March 2021 and told us it 
wouldve texted Mr and Mrs S automatically about this. This must have been frustrating and 
confusing for Mr and Mrs S given that theyd also been told L had been appointed.I can see from Ageas system notes that D appointed a third party (W) to restore some of 
Mr and Mrs Ss possessions and that D emailed Ageas about Ws appointment on 17 March 
2021, which was after Ageas had already texted Mr S about Ds appointment.
 
But Ive not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs S were contacted by any parties other than 
S, W, D or L. 
As for requests for payments, I can see D emailed Ageas on 22 March 2021 about the 
collection of Mr and Mrs Ss excess asking it to get in touch with Mr S to explain the process. 
But Ive not seen evidence that any other parties contacted Mr or Mrs S asking for payments.  
And its not unreasonable for D - as Ageas agent - to contact Mr and Mrs Ss about their 
excess when Ageas had already texted Mr S about Ds appointment a few days after the fire 
on 15 March 2021. 
Delays
I can see that L contacted Ageas claims handling department with a query about the claim 
on 21 May 2021. Ageas claims area told L that day itd need to refer the query to its 
underwriting team. But the claims area didnt manage to successfully raise the matter with 
the underwriting team until the 7 June 2021. Ageas said this delay was due to staffing 
issues. But despite this, Id have expected the query to have been dispatched to Ageas 
underwriting team sooner than it was, and so I think the delay this caused to the progress of 
Mr and Mrs Ss claim here is unreasonable.
Ageas underwriting team responded to the query on 10 June 2021 and said it wouldnt be 
prepared to respond to Ls query until L had provided its report. At this point progress with 
Mr and Mrs Ss claim appears to have stalled so that by the 15 July 2021 - when Ageas 
issued its FRL  the query still hadnt been resolved and Mr and Mrs S hadnt been told the 
outcome of their claim. Its reasonable for an insurer to need some time to consider a claim, 
but I think the length of the delay caused by Ageas failure to resolve the query sooner is 
unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs Ss possessions at the property
Ive not seen any evidence of the discussion between Mr S and D where the cleaning and 
return of Mr and Mrs Ss possessions was discussed. But Ageas told this service that D 
advised Mr and Mrs S on 18 March 2021 that it cannot deal with laundry and the matter 
would be referred back to Ageas and L. Despite there being no evidence of the discussion 
and given that the cleaning costs form part of Mr and Mrs Ss claim, which at the time hadnt 
been fully validated, I think its more likely than not that D wouldnt have said with certainty 
that Mr and Mrs Ss possessions would definitely be cleaned and returned to them.
Its not in dispute that Mr and Mrs Ss possessions were still inside the fire damaged property 
when Ageas issued its FRL on 15 July 2021. Its reasonable for Ageas to need time to 
consider and validate Mr and Mrs Ss claim. But I think its unreasonable that Ageas was still 
unable to tell Mr and Mrs S by 15 July 2021 whether their claim would be covered  and so 
whether Ageas would pay the cost of cleaning their possessions.
 
Updates on the claim 
I can see from Ageas contact log that it told Mr S on 23 April 2021 that its report would be 
ready on 27 April 2021. Mr S called Ageas because no-one had contacted him on 27 April 
2021. Ageas then said it would call Mr S on 30 April 2021 but didnt. Mr S then called B at around 16.26 on 30 April 2021 and was told the report was being generated and would be 
ready in the next few days. I think its reasonable for Mr S to have felt frustrated by this.
 
Mr and Mrs S also say they contacted Ageas loss adjuster about their claim on 20 May 
2021, 24 May 2021, 28 May 2021, 15 June 2021 and 17 June 2021 but that L didnt get back 
to them when it said it would. I reviewed Ls contact log but couldnt see that L promised on 
these dates that it would get back to Mr and Mrs S. Mr S was told on a few of these 
occasions that someone would call him back when there was an update. But this isnt the 
same as L promising to call him at a particular time or date. And on other occasions when L 
did say that Mr and Mrs S would receive an update within a certain timeframe, Mr S called L 
before the timeframe had elapsed.  So I cant say on balance that Ageas loss adjuster acted 
unreasonably by not responding to Mr and Mrs S when they contacted it for updates. 
Conclusion
Mr and Mrs S told us on 22 January 2022 that they were still waiting find out the outcome of 
their claim. My provisional decision only covers the points raised by Mr and Mrs S before 
Ageas issued its FRL on 15 July 2021. So Mr and Mrs S are free to raise any further issues 
theyve experienced with the handling of their claim in the first instance with Ageas and 
afterwards, if necessary, with this service. 
Mr and Mrs S mentioned that the delays meant theyd needed to use credit cards to buy new 
beds, sofas and clothes. I unable to make a finding here on whether Mr and Mrs S should be 
compensated for this because Ageas hadnt decided the outcome of their claim by 15 July 
2021 when Ageas issued its FRL. So Mr and Mrs S remain free to raise the matter of having 
to purchase replacement contents on credit cards, and any additional costs to them of doing 
so, with Ageas in the first instance and subsequently with this service if the matter leads to a 
complaint.
Im minded to award Mr and Mrs S compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to them by Ageas handling of their claim. When deciding a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation, Ive considered the extent of the items damaged by the fire and that the 
damage was to essential items, sentimental items and equipment needed for work. So I 
think the uncertainty not knowing whether these items would be covered or not during 
Ageas handling of the claim wouldve been particularly distressing and inconvenient for 
them. So Im minded to require Ageas to pay Mr and Mrs S £400 which I think is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused to Mr and Mrs S in 
the handling of their claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ageas responded to my provisional and said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr and Mrs S asked in their response what the pay-out for their claim plus compensation 
should be. They said photos and sentimental items had been returned to them on 12 April 
2022 but hadnt been cleaned. And that clothes and other possessions still hadnt been 
returned to them and theyd had to purchase replacements. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the responses of both parties to my provisional decision. As Id said in my provisional decision, Im sorry to hear Mr and Mrs S suffered a fire at their 
residence  it must have been a horrific experience for them. 
Id explained in my provisional decision that I can only consider Ageass handling of Mr and 
Mrs Ss claim up to 15 July 2021. And that any other issues Mr and Mrs S have experienced 
after this date  - which would include items being returned to them uncleaned or not at all  
should be raised with Ageas first. After raising these matters with Ageas, and if necessary, 
Mr and Mrs S are then free to approach this service about them.
 
Ageas hadnt decided the outcome of Mr and Mrs Ss claim by 15 July 2021, so Im unable to 
make a finding on what the settlement for the claim should be. And I can only decide here 
whats fair and reasonable compensation for events up to the 15 July 2021. If the claim 
settlement cannot be resolved, Mr and Mrs S are free to approach this service again with a 
further complaint. 
So, because Ageas didnt provide any further comment or information in its response and 
because Mr and Mrs Ss response hasnt persuaded me to depart from my provisional 
findings, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in line with my provisional 
decision. 
So I require Ageas to pay Mr and Mrs S £400 for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused them, which I think is fair and reasonable compensation because of the extent of the 
items damaged and that their claim concerned equipment needed for work and essential and 
sentimental items. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I instruct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs S 
£400 for the distress and inconvenience it has caused when handling their claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman