DRN-3613278
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax wont refund money they 
lost after they fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
In February 2022, Mr M received a call, from a local number, from somebody claiming to be 
from an internet provider. The caller explained to Mr M that there was issues with the 
broadband, but they could improve the service and that Mr and Mrs M would receive 
compensation for the inconvenience.
 
But unknown to him at the time, Mr M was speaking to a fraudster. The fraudster persuaded 
Mr M to initially transfer funds to them, from an account he held with another bank. The 
fraudsters then convinced Mr M to transfer the below payments, totalling £4,001, from the 
joint account Mr and Mrs M held with Bank of Scotland, to two separate accounts that the 
fraudster provided details for;
9 February 2022 16:08 £1,956
9 February 2022 16:09 £1,921
9 February 2022 16:30 £124
Mr M has been unable to explain why the fraudsters told him he needed to send the money.  
But has said that he tends to believe people and that the fraudsters had sucked him into 
what hes described as a hypnotic state.
Mr M became suspicious when Mrs M returned home and he told her what had happened.  
She thought it was odd and so contacted Bank of Scotland, at which point the scam came to 
light. Bank of Scotland tried to recover the money from the beneficiary banks (the banks to 
which the payments were made), but it was only able to recover £134.55, which it returned 
to Mr and Mrs M.
Bank of Scotland is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims 
of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Bank of Scotland says 
one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
It looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and issued its final response on 7 May 2022, 
upholding the complaint in part. It made an offer to refund 50% of the amount they lost, 
being £2000.50. This was because Bank of Scotland said it could have intervened and 
requested Mr and Mrs M contact it before proceeding with the payments, as it recognised 
the payments were unusual and out of character with their usual spending pattern. 
But it argued that Mr and Mrs M made the payments without having enough evidence to 
warrant that they were dealing with a legitimate call. It thought more could have been done 
to question the caller before Mr M agreed to make the payments. 
Unhappy with Bank of Scotlands response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into things and thought the offer Bank of Scotland 
had made, to refund 50% of the money Mr and Mrs M had lost, was fair in the 
circumstances. In summary, she said this because she didnt think Mr and Mrs M had a 
reasonable basis for believing the caller was genuine, and so they should share some of the 
liability. She said that, while she recognised Mr M was persuaded by the fraudster, he should 
have done more to ensure that what he was being told was genuine and there were several 
red flags that something wasnt right. Because of this she didnt think Mr and Mrs M had met 
the requirements under the CRM code.
Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached, 
the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Bank 
of Scotland should have reimbursed Mr and Mrs M under the provisions of the CRM Code 
and whether it ought to have done more to protect Mr and Mrs M from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs M have fallen victim to a scam. But this isnt enough for them 
to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. Bank of Scotland has accepted 
liability, in part, and refunded 50% of the money Mr and Mrs M lost. But the CRM Code also 
places a level of care on Mr and Mrs M too. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
 
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this case.
 
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, I dont think Mr and Mrs M had a 
reasonable basis for believing the payments were for genuine goods or that the person they 
transacted with was legitimate.
I understand that the nature of scams like this one are that scammers skilfully apply pressure 
to their victims. But, I also think there were several points where Mr M reasonably ought to 
have questioned what he was being told. I say this because:- The scammers told Mr M they were calling from an internet provider. But Im mindful 
this wasnt the provider who, at the time, supplied Mr and Mrs M their broadband. I 
acknowledge Mr and Mrs M have said they had previously been customers of the 
internet provider the fraudster was impersonating. However, Im not persuaded that 
the fraudster gave any plausible reason for why Mr and Mrs M would need to make 
payments to a provider, they werent a customer of.
- The caller had told Mr M that there was an issue with the broadband and that he 
would be compensated for inconvenience. But Mr M has been unable to explain why, 
when he was the one who would be receiving the compensation, it was necessary for 
him to make multiple payments to different beneficiaries, from accounts he held with 
different banks. Overall, I think it would have been reasonable for Mr M to question 
why this money had to be sent. 
- The fraudsters asked Mr M to download software that allowed them to view and 
access his computer and phone, but seemingly without any plausible explanation as 
to why he needed to do this. Although I do understand Mr M has said he was put in a 
hypnotic state. I think he reasonably ought to have attempted to verify why the caller 
needed access to his computer and phone.
- The fraudsters didnt appear to have any personal information about Mr and Mrs M. I 
think it reasonable to expect a company, who is asking for access to your computer 
and who is asking for payments to have some knowledge of the person who they are 
talking to. But I cant see Mr M asked the fraudster for any detail. 
- The number Mr and Mrs M were called from was a local number. More typically a 
large co-operation, such as the one the fraudster was impersonating, wouldnt be 
calling from a local number. But Mr M didnt check the number he was being called 
from, to check that it was genuine.
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Mr M from proceeding to make the payments. But when 
taken collectively and considering the specific circumstances of this case and the factors in 
the round, on balance, I think that there was enough going on and sufficient red flags that  
Mr M ought reasonably to have taken further steps to protect himself from the risks.
I do understand that scammers use tactics to panic and confuse their victims and Im aware 
Mr M has said that hes a naturally trusting person. But, although I have taken this into 
account here, I still think Mr M reasonably ought to have questioned some of what he was 
being told before proceeding to make the payments he did. On that basis, Im not satisfied 
that Mr and Mrs M had a reasonable basis for believing they were paying a legitimate firm.
Ive gone on to consider whether Bank of Scotland took reasonable steps to recover           
Mr and Mrs Ms funds, and I think it did. It contacted the receiving banks on the same day 
that Mr and Mrs M reported the scam to it. It was able to recover £134.55 from the fraudsters 
account, and this was returned to them. But Im not persuaded that Bank of Scotland 
couldve taken any further action that wouldve led to the recovery of a higher proportion of 
Mr and Mrs Ms funds.
 
Finally, Ive thought about whether Bank of Scotland ought reasonably to have done more to 
prevent this scam. Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ms account activity in the months leading up to 
the scam and I think that the payments they made were unusual enough, at a point, to alert 
Bank of Scotland to the possibility that they were at risk of financial harm. So, Im satisfied 
that Bank of Scotland shouldve asked Mr and Mrs M some questions about the payments when they instructed it and done more to adequately explain the relevant risk to them. Had it 
done so, I think its likely that Mr Ms decision-making wouldve been affected, and he 
wouldve taken steps to protect himself from fraud. But, as Ive set out above, I think that     
Mr M shouldve done more to protect himself too in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M have my considerable sympathies. Theyve found themselves in an 
unenviable situation where theyve lost money to a fraudster. And I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting for them and I dont underestimate their strength of 
feeling and the impact this has had on them. But overall, for reasons explained Im 
persuaded that the offer Bank of Scotland has already made, to refund 50% of the money 
lost, is fair and reasonable considering the circumstances of this case. So I dont think Bank 
of Scotland has to refund any more of the money Mr and Mrs M sadly lost. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman