DRN-4010447
The complaint
Mr W complains that Telefonica UK Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to a number 
of fixed sum loan agreements. 
What happened
Mr W acquired a number of portable devices from Telefonica, some of which were financed 
by fixed sum loan agreements. He also took out linked airtime contracts for these devices. 
Mr W raised a number of complaints about the way Telefonica had treated him when he was 
in financial difficulty and unable to afford the regular payments towards his airtime contracts. 
Unhappy with Telefonicas response to those complaints he escalated them to a different 
ombudsman scheme, which has issued decisions on those issues. 
Mr W then referred his complaint to our service. He said he is unhappy with the way 
Telefonica had administered his agreements and the lack of assistance with his financial 
difficulties. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that we couldnt 
consider any complaint about the airtime contracts as those werent regulated finance 
agreements, or any other type of arrangement that would fall within our remit. He said that 
although Telefonica hadnt been given an opportunity to respond to Mr Ws complaint about 
the fixed sum loan agreements, Telefonica had nevertheless consented to us investigating 
those issues. The investigator concluded that he thought Telefonica had acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr W. 
Mr W didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service isnt free to consider every complaint that is referred to us. Our rules for 
considering complaints are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Handbook of Rules and Guidance. 
DISP 2.3.1R sets out which activities we can consider complaints about. The airtime 
contracts Mr W entered into with Telefonica are not ones which fall within any of the covered 
activities that we can consider complaints about. And even if they did, as another 
ombudsman scheme has already decided the merits of Mr Ws complaint about those 
agreements, I consider it would be inappropriate for our service to revisit those same issues 
again anyway. 
However, I can consider Mr Ws complaint about the way in which Telefonica administered 
his fixed sum loan agreements as these are regulated consumer credit agreements. 
It appears the majority of Mr Ws concerns related to his airtime agreements. However, from 
everything Ive seen and been provided by both parties, Im satisfied that Telefonica has 
treated Mr W fairly in relation to his fixed sum loan agreements. I can see that Telefonica 
responded promptly to his concerns when they were raised, offered support when necessary 
and at any time the service fell below expectations it apologised and offered reasonable 
ways to put things right. I dont therefore consider that Telefonica needs to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman