DRN-3118076
The complaint
Mr H says that, because Leek United Building Society (LUBS) refused to allow him to port 
(transfer) his mortgage onto another property, he incurred an early repayment charge (ERC).
To settle the complaint, Mr H wants LUBS to compensate him for his losses.
 
What happened
Mr H originally took out his interest-only mortgage in 2002, before mortgages became 
regulated. Over the years he has taken out new interest-rate products, the last being a 
1.95% five-year fixed rate product taken out in 2017. The product had an ERC on a sliding 
scale of 5% down to 1% over the five years the fixed rate applied.
The monthly payment during the fixed-rate period was £385.89. Thereafter, the mortgage 
was to revert to LUBSs standard variable rate (SVR) of 5.19%, giving a monthly repayment 
of £1,024.75.
The mortgage and property were in Mr Hs sole name. Mr H has lived and worked abroad, in 
an EU country, for many years, pre-dating 2002 when he took out the mortgage. Mr Hs 
salary is paid in Euros. His wife, Mrs H, lived in the property (which is in the UK).
Mr H had been aware from 2016 that LUBS wouldnt be able to offer him a new mortgage. 
This is because LUBS didnt offer mortgages which were considered to be a Mortgage Credit 
Directive agreement. According to Financial Conduct Authority regulations that is defined as 
an agreement where the credit is:
denominated in a currency other than that in which the consumer receives his income; or
denominated in a currency other than sterling.
So although Mr Hs mortgage was in sterling, he receives his income in Euros.
In 2020 Mr H wanted to downsize and port his mortgage product (the 2017 five-year fixed 
rate) onto another property. Because Mr H didnt meet LUBSs lending criteria, due to his 
salary being paid in Euros, LUBS was unable to agree to the request.
Mr H complained. He said that hed made it clear for many years that he intended to move, 
and specifically mentioned this in 2017 when he took out the latest product. Mr H says that, if 
LUBS had explained to him in 2017 that hed need to apply for a new mortgage after hed 
explained his intention to move, hed never have taken the product out, because he already 
knew he couldnt have a new mortgage. He didnt understand that porting required a new 
application to be made.
LUBS didnt uphold the complaint, saying that there was no evidence Mr H had said he was 
going to move before the five-year fixed rate product came to an end. In fact, LUBS said that 
Mr H had confirmed that he didnt intend to move within the near future. LUBS also said that, 
whilst Mr H might not have appreciated that porting involves a fresh application, this is 
information that was provided to him when he took out the new product in 2017. 
Consequently, LUBS didnt agree that it had done anything wrong or that it was obliged to 
port the mortgage.
In December 2020 Mr H sold the property and paid the ERC of £4,744.78.
Mr H complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator thought the 
complaint should be upheld. She thought that even though Mr H might not have stated in 
2017 that he intended to move in the near future, LUBS had a responsibility to tell him that 
he wouldnt be able to port the mortgage product if hed later decided he wanted to. The 
investigator thought LUBS should reimburse the ERC and pay interest on it at 8% p.a. 
simple from the date it was incurred to the date of reimbursement.
LUBS didnt agree with the investigators findings. It reiterated that Mr H had never stated 
that he wanted to move when he applied for the 2017 product. In addition, porting was never 
guaranteed and was always subject to a new application, requiring Mr H to meet LUBSs 
lending criteria.
Provisional decision
On 17 September 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I decided to uphold the 
complaint. I didnt think, however, that Mr H had suffered any financial loss. My reasons are 
set out below.
When Mr H took out his mortgage in 2002, mortgages werent regulated. Different 
lending criteria applied, and, over the years, LUBS has varied its lending criteria, as it 
is entitled to do to reflect changes in the financial climate, as well as its obligation to 
comply with regulatory standards. 
Since taking out the mortgage, Mr H had switched products several times. None of 
these product switches were considered to be a new mortgage application; it was 
simply re-arranging the existing borrowing on the existing security onto new product 
terms.
Following changes that came into effect in 2014, when an existing borrower wants to 
move house and port their mortgage deal, LUBS has the flexibility to disregard the 
results of some of the checks that the rules of mortgage regulation would normally 
require them to carry out. But the checks are about affordability and/or the borrowers 
strategy for repaying the capital of an interest-only mortgage.
LUBSs decision to refuse the port had nothing to do with those issues. Following the
introduction of the EU Mortgage Credit Directive in March 2016, LUBS took a policy 
decision not to provide foreign currency mortgages; i.e. mortgages where the money 
is lent in a different currency from that in which the borrower is paid. Thats a 
commercial decision that LUBS was entitled to take, and Ive no reason to interfere 
with it. Theres nothing to suggest LUBS has applied the policy unfairly, by singling 
Mr H out for different treatment from that offered to other borrowers wanting a foreign 
currency mortgage.
But the crux of this complaint is that Mr H says that, if hed been told in 2017 he 
wouldnt have been able to port his mortgage onto a new property, hed instead have 
stayed on LUBSs SVR of 5.19% when his previous product had come to an end. 
Mr H says that, because he transferred onto a new product, he suffered financial loss by being unable to port the mortgage by having to pay the ERC. So what I have 
looked at is whether or not Mr H would have been better or worse off by keeping his 
mortgage on SVR.
In this respect, I agree with Mr H that LUBS was aware, from the discussions Mr H 
had had with it in 2016, that he wouldnt qualify for a new mortgage due to his 
employment status. But I think this put the onus on LUBS to consider, when it was 
advising Mr H about tying himself into a five-year fixed rate product that was portable, 
what the implications might be for him. 
Although Mr H said that he wasnt intending to move at the time he made the 
application, he was being sold a product that hed been told was portable. LUBS 
knew  but Mr H didnt  that this would involve an application for a new mortgage. 
Mr H and LUBS both knew that he wouldnt qualify for a new mortgage. Given this, I 
agree with the investigator that LUBS ought to have discussed the implications of this 
with Mr H before he committed himself to the new product.
So for those reasons, I think the complaint should be upheld.
However, I disagree with the investigator that LUBS should refund the ERC. I say this 
for the following reasons.
I think that, even if LUBS had explained to Mr H that he wouldnt be able to port this 
product, its more likely than not that hed have still gone ahead with it in any event. 
Thats because if the mortgage had gone onto SVR, his monthly repayments would 
have been significantly higher and would have cost him much more over the same 
period.
Ive carried out some calculations to compare what happened on Mr Hs mortgage to 
what would have happened if hed gone onto SVR in August 2017 (which is what he 
said he would have done had he known he wouldnt have been allowed to port the 
mortgage).
The fixed-rate product ran for 40 months, from August 2017 to December 2020 
inclusive, until the property was sold.
Fixed rate product
40 months @ £385.89 £ 15,435.56
ERC £   4.744.78
Product fee for fixed rate £      995.00
Total £  21,175.38
SVR of 5.19%
40 months @ £1,024.75£ 40,990.00
From the above Im satisfied that Mr H would have paid almost twice as much over 
the same period if hed gone onto SVR rather than taking out the fixed-rate product, 
taking into account the ERC and the product fee he also paid on the 2017 fixed-rate 
product.In the circumstances, although Im satisfied that LUBS made a mistake, I dont think 
its caused Mr H any financial loss. Consequently, Im not going to order LUBS to pay 
any compensation for that.
I think LUBS should pay Mr H some compensation for the trouble to which hes been 
put, and I assess that at £300.
Responses to the provisional decision
LUBS accepted my provisional decision, but Mr H did not. He said that hed made it clear to 
LUBS when it took out the product in 2017 that his intention was to sell the property in 2019 
or 2020, and so he should have been advised to take out a two-year fixed rate product 
instead.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr H has said. To be clear, this decision is only about the product 
taken out in 2017. So although Mr H has made reference to a previous product taken out in 
2014, thats not relevant to this complaint, which is about the ERC on the 2017 product.
As I found in my provisional decision, Mr H should not have been sold a portable mortgage 
in 2017. What I have to decide is whether, as Mr H says, LUBS knew he was going to sell 
the property in 2020 at the time the advice was given in 2017.
Mr H is insistent that, if hed known the mortgage wasnt portable, hed have taken out a two-
year fixed rate. He says that, by May 2019, his wife had been told she would be made 
redundant. Mr H says that in 2017 hed have expected LUBS to have recommended a two-
year fixed-rate product, as they would have been informed of our intention to sell and 
downsize. 
Mr Hs position is that he had always intended from the outset  and LUBS knew this  to 
sell the property before the end of the five-year fixed rate period. Mr H has provided us with 
another copy of his email dated 21 July 2017 (which I had previously taken into 
consideration).
In the email, Mr H says that a five-year fixed rate looks good. He also says, due to the way 
Brexit was going, he might sell the property as his wife would move abroad to live with him 
when she retires in a couple of years, which Mr H has now said was 2019 or 2020.
This is a little contradictory; in the email Mr H said he wanted to fix the rate for five years, but 
also thought he might sell before the end of the fixed-rate period (not downsize or port the 
mortgage) within the period when the ERC would apply, due to his wife moving abroad to 
live with him. This was taken into account when the advice was given.
In the fact-find completed during the application process, one of the questions was Within 
the foreseeable future (5 years) do you expect to repay this mortgage in full? If so, how 
soon?. Mr Hs answer was No.  Mr H also confirmed that he had no plans to retire and that 
the existing mortgage term suited his retirement plans. The fact-find also said that Mr H wanted to fix for as long as possible  thinks rates will go 
up soon, possibly gradually but they will go up. Did not want to consider cheaper fixed rate 
accounts and aware of the ERCs that apply for early redemption
The cheaper fixed-rate account mentioned was the two-year fixed rate at 1.79%, which Mr H 
rejected in favour of the five-year fixed rate at 2.15%.
The letter of recommendation confirms that the advice to take out a five-year fixed rate 
product is based on Mr Hs stated intention to sell the property at the end of the term. It also 
confirms that Mr H had told LUBS that he wanted to have the longest term of fixed 
repayments that LUBS could offer and that the mortgage term fits in with his retirement (not 
that of his wife, who is not a party to the mortgage).
However, in his email to us dated 26 May 2021 Mr H says:  my wife  was unexpectedly 
made redundant in September 2019  Because of this she wanted to spend more time 
abroad with me so we did not need such a large house in the UK. Also with only one income 
it would not have been affordable. For that reason we were unable to wait until the end of the 
fixed term  The fact that [name] would be made redundant was completely unforeseen 
when we took the mortgage out, and the mortgage was in my name only anyway. However I 
feel that it is irrelevant. I was sold a portable mortgage so we were under the impression that 
we would be able to move if wanted to or needed to.
Given this, Im not persuaded that Mr Hs intention was always to sell the property before the 
end of the fixed term. The available evidence from the point of sale is persuasive that Mr H 
wanted a five-year fixed rate and that he didnt intend to sell or downsize before the fixed 
rate expired. Mr H has also confirmed that his wifes redundancy in late 2019 was 
completely unforeseen and that it was this that prompted the decision to sell the property, 
because, Mr H says, it would not have been affordable without his wifes income.
I can see Mr Hs point that he would have avoided the ERC if hed taken out a two-year fixed 
rate. However, given what Mr H told LUBS in 2017  particularly his concerns that interest 
rates were about to increase and that he wanted the longest fixed-rate term LUBS could 
offer him  I think overall Mr H would have rejected any advice to take out a two-year fixed 
rate product, even if hed been told that he couldnt have ported the mortgage onto another 
property. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs argument that LUBS ought to have known in 2017 that he 
would be selling the property to downsize in 2019  because Mr H himself has said that this 
was a decision prompted by a completely unforeseen event  his wifes redundancy and 
the financial implications of this for the family. In the circumstances, I dont see how LUBS 
could have known about this or taken it into account when making the recommendation in 
2017.
In the circumstances, after carefully considering everything Mr H and LUBS have said, Im 
not persuaded to change the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision. I think that if 
LUBS had told Mr H in 2017 that the mortgage wasnt portable, he would still have gone 
ahead with the five-year fixed rate in any event, rather than the two-year product. 
Im satisfied, for the reasons given in my provisional decision (which are set out above) that 
LUBS should not have sold Mr H a mortgage that he could not port. But Im also satisfied, 
based on the available evidence from the point of sale, that even if hed have known this, 
Mr H would still have gone ahead with it and would not have selected a two-year fixed rate 
product.So although LUBS made a mistake, for the reasons given above I dont think Mr H has 
suffered any financial loss. I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr H wanted, but he is under 
no obligation to accept my decision. If he decides not to accept it, his legal rights are 
unaffected and he will be free to pursue his grievances against LUBS in court, should he 
wish to do so. Mr H might want to take legal advice before taking any legal action.
 
Putting things right
I think LUBS should pay Mr H compensation for trouble and upset, which I assess at £300. 
But for the reasons given above, as there is no financial loss, Im not awarding any other 
redress.
  
My final decision
My final decision is as follows:
I uphold the complaint;
I find Mr H has suffered no financial loss arising from the arrangement of the mortgage in 
2017, which means that Leek United Building Society is not required to pay any redress;
I direct Leek United Building Society to pay Mr H £300 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman