DRN-4158295
The complaint
Miss D complaints that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund funds she lost to an 
investment scam.
Miss D is being represented by a claims management company in her complaint.
What happened
In 2021, Miss D became interested in an investment opportunity promoted by a property 
developer L. She reached out to L who persuaded her to invest money in a development 
project overseas. Under Ls recommendation, Miss D opened an e-money account with Wise 
to facilitate the investment transfers. Funds were deposited into the Wise account from her 
current account with a high street bank in the UK.
Over the course of the next few days, multiple card payments were made to cryptocurrency 
platforms from Miss Ds Wise account. An international transfer was also made from the 
account. Miss Ds representative states that these transactions werent authorised by her. 
And that she didnt discover them until later when Wise got in touch and notified her that it 
was closing her account. 
Miss D reported the scam to Wise and her bank. Unhappy with their response, the matter 
was referred to our service. Miss Ds complaint about her bank is being considered by our 
service under a separate case reference. 
Our investigator wasnt satisfied that Miss Ds losses from her Wise account were because 
of any failure on Wises part. So, they didnt think it could have done more. Miss Ds 
representative disagrees with the investigators assessment and has asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reassuring the parties that although Ive only summarised the background 
to this complaint, so not everything that happened is set out above, I have read and 
considered everything in its entirety.
Miss D says her dealings were with a representative from L. Ive done my own research into 
L, but very little information is available about it in the public domain. I can see it has been 
registered in an EU member state since July 2021, although it appears to have recently gone 
into liquidation. This in and of itself isnt evidence that L was set up with the specific purpose 
of scamming customers. But Miss D claims that she was scammed, and Wise hasnt 
disputed this. So, Ive proceeded on that basis.
I note Miss Ds version of events has remained unclear and there are gaps in what weve 
been told. Shes also given conflicting information about what has happened. For instance, 
when she reported the scam to Wise and her bank, she said she hadnt made the payments 
from her bank to her Wise account. But later, she said that she had. And while her 
representative submits that Miss D didnt authorise any of the disputed transactions from her 
Wise account, she told our investigator (investigating her complaint about her bank) that she 
did make the international transfer from her Wise account. 
These differing recollections naturally cast a doubt on the credibility of Miss Ds testimony. In 
this situation, my role is to weigh up the evidence we do have and to decide 
on the balance of probabilities  whats most likely to have happened. For these reasons, 
Ive relied and placed more weight on the documentary evidence available to reach a view 
on what happened. 
The first thing I need to decide is whether, on balance, I think Miss D authorised the 
payments. Broadly speaking, Miss D is responsible for any payments that she has 
authorised, and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. Having considered all the 
evidence and information available, I think, on balance, its most likely that Miss D did 
authorise all the payments. I say this for the following reasons:
Miss D acknowledges making the international transfer.
In relation to the card payments, Wise has provided technical evidence which shows 
that Miss Ds card details were entered on the merchants website and the payment 
transaction was approved using a one-time passcode (OTP) which was sent to her 
registered mobile number. 
When questioned, Miss D told our investigator she shared the OTP with the scammer 
whenever they rang her and asked for it. 
That means Miss D is considered liable for the loss  even if she was duped into making the 
payments  unless theres evidence that Wise could and should reasonably have done more 
to protect her against the risk of fraud and scams and that this would have made a difference 
to her decision-making.
In this case, Miss D didnt have an account with Wise before the disputed payments were 
made. She set it up as instructed and so there was no transaction history to compare the 
payments with. Wise is an electronic money institution (EMI), not a bank or a building 
society. EMIs are set up with the purpose of sending and receiving money. And often that 
will be for larger sums. 
The disputed transactions comprise five card payments and an international transfer. Four 
card payments were made on the same day, with the fifth card payment and the international 
transfer being made the following day. Im not persuaded that the first three payments were 
of a nature such that I think Wise ought to have intervened. And Im not aware there was any 
interaction between Wise and Miss D at the time, where any concerns might have been 
expressed, that would lead me to conclude it ought to have paused the payments and asked 
her about it.
The fourth payment was considerably larger than the previous ones. Given the amount, as 
well as the fact that it was the fourth such payment that day (and the third payment to the 
same merchant), I consider that Wise ought to have provided a tailored scam warning to 
Miss D before executing her payment instruction. As far as I can tell, no such warning was 
given. So, an opportunity was missed. But this is not the end of the matter.
Causation is a critical determinative factor, and I need to be satisfied that a scam warning 
would have led to a different outcome. Having considered the available information, Im not 
convinced it would have. I say this because on that same day, Miss Ds bank blocked a 
payment which she had attempted to send to her Wise account. She was asked if anyone had been involved in setting up her Wise account and whether shed been asked to 
download anything, and she said no. Im not persuaded Miss D would have answered similar 
questions from Wise, such as third-party involvement or remote access, in the way her 
representative has suggested.
Its also worth mentioning that just days later Wise blocked some incoming payments from 
Miss Ds bank account and emailed her asking why she was making the transfers to her 
Wise account. It sent the email to the same email address that Miss D had used to set up 
her account. Shes previously said she set up the account herself, including providing 
additional information to Wise when it was requested during the account opening process. 
So, Im persuaded that the reply Wise received to its enquiries about the incoming payments 
came from Miss D. Ive seen a copy of the email it sent her, as well as her response to it. 
Miss D wasnt forthcoming about her intentions for the funds; she said she was going to use 
the money to pay her bills and make some online payments. 
Considering the above, Im not persuaded that an intervention by Wise at the time of the 
fourth payment would have prevented further loss. The same goes for the subsequent 
payments which were made the following day. That being the case, I cant fairly hold Wise 
liable for Miss Ds losses. 
Ive also thought about whether Wise could have done more to recover the funds after it 
became aware of the situation, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered. 
In relation to the card payments, Miss Ds payments went to a cryptocurrency platform. She 
wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in the circumstances because the 
merchant she paid did provide the service requested (i.e., conversion of fiat money into 
cryptocurrency). So, I dont think Wise was under any obligation to raise a chargeback 
dispute for Miss D. 
In relation to the international transfer, I can see Wise sent a recall request to the beneficiary 
bank. It has told us it also chased this a few times. But it never heard back. Under the 
circumstances, I dont think Wise could have done anything more.
In summary, I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Miss D. Not 
least because the matter has been ongoing for some time. I fully acknowledge that theres a 
lot of money involved here. But having considered the matter very carefully, for the reasons 
given, it wouldnt be fair of me to hold Wise responsible for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman