DRN-1426978
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy Europ Assistance S.A has declined his travel insurance claim after he had 
to cancel his holiday. 
What happened
In January 2019 Mr K booked a family trip. He was due to fly from country A to country B 
on 15 June 2019 before flying on to country C on 21 June 2019. 
In April 2019 Mr Ks parents applied for visas to country C which they werent able to apply 
for until they had the visa from country B. Mr K said he hadnt heard anything from the 
embassy of country C, so he sent an e-mail on 30 May 2019 chasing the application. On
14 June 2019 the embassy asked for a copy of Mr Ks parents passports. Unfortunately this 
was too late and Mr K and his family were unable to go on the holiday. So Mr K made a 
claim.        
Europ Assitance reviewed the claim and asked Mr K if he had any evidence of the delay in 
the visa application from the embassy of country C. Mr K felt he had already provided 
enough information so he made a complaint. 
Europ Assistance reviewed the complaint. It said It needed more information about the visa 
delay before it could consider the claim further. Mr K continued to be unhappy with this 
response as he felt he had already provided enough evidence of the delay. He was also 
unhappy with the time it was taking to review the claim and the complaint. So he brought his 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint. He said he didnt think Europ Assistance had done 
anything wrong as it was relying on a clear exclusion within the policy. And Mr K hadnt left 
enough time to apply for the visa for country C. He also said he didnt think
Europ Assistance had caused any delay when reviewing the claim or complaint. 
Mr K disagreed so the complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold it. And Ill explain why below. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy say under the heading what is not insured that 
failure to obtain essential documents for a holiday such as a visa isnt covered. 
There is a further exclusion in Mr Ks policy which says the following;
 Failure to obtain, any documents that are essential for the trip (other than the unjustifiable 
refusal of a visa due to any reason beyond the control of any Insured Person, provided that 
the insured person had taken all necessary steps within the timeframes and manner 
established for the granting of visas). 
Mr K says it was the fault of the embassy for not processing his visa application promptly 
which caused the cancellation of his trip. So he believes the exclusion in his policy shouldnt 
apply. He feels he applied for the Visa in a reasonable timeframe based upon the 
information on how long the application would take given by the embassy website. 
However, the reason Europ Assistance has an exclusion, such as the one it is relying on 
here, is exactly for this type of situation. Theres no dispute that Mr K did due diligence in 
trying to find out whether he needed a visa. There also doesnt seem to be any dispute that 
the information on the embassies website in May 2019 about how long it might take to 
accept the application wasnt accurate. But that doesnt mean Europ Assistance need to pay 
the claim as its a situation that just isnt covered by the policy.
Its for Europ Assistance to decide what risks it wants to cover and the policy doesnt cover 
every eventuality. The policy may provide cover in the event a visa is unjustifiably 
refused but Mr Ks visa wasnt refused. It was just delayed. I can fully appreciate his 
frustration at what hes been through. But irrespective of the reason why the visa was 
delayed the policy doesnt cover the claim.
Mr K says his claim should be accepted under the following in the terms and conditions; 
2. any other cause unintended by and beyond the control of any Person Insured which is 
not otherwise excluded and for which You can provide Us with suitable evidence 
substantiating the event
I accept there was an unintended delay for the visa. But the above also says this is only 
relevant if there isnt another exclusion. And as Ive highlighted above, delayed visas are 
excluded under the policy. So I cant ask Europ Assistance to pay the claim based upon 
what this part of the policy says.  
I understand Mr K is unhappy with the time it took Europ Assistance to look into his claim 
and his complaint. Ive reviewed the time it took Europ Assistance to review both and I dont 
believe it has caused any unnecessary delay which has caused him any significant distress 
or inconvenience. So Im not going to ask it to do anything further here.  
So I dont think Europ Assistance has treated Mr K unreasonably. I appreciate this isnt the 
answer he was hoping for. But Im not going to interfere with Europ Assistances decision as 
it was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2020.
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman