DRN-3585602
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain Santander UK Plc has unfairly refused them a better interest rate 
on their mortgage.  
What happened
On 1 December 2021 Mr S contacted Santander to discuss any new available products 
because part of his current mortgage product was due to end in the following months. 
Santander discussed the available rates and product fees with Mr S. He was told a fixed 
five-year interest rate of 1.34% was available for a product fee of £999. Mr S says he 
needed to discuss this further with Mrs S and didnt make the application at the time. 
On 3 December 2021 Mrs S called Santander to proceed with the product transfer but she 
was told the rate of 1.34% was no longer available and the new rate was 1.44% with a 
product fee of £999. Santander told Mrs S the rate quoted on 1 December 2021 was only 
valid for one day. Mrs S decided to go ahead with the application. 
During the application process Mrs S was told she would be able to cancel the product 
transfer within 14 days if they decided not to go ahead with it. Mr S and Mrs S went ahead 
with the product transfer but complained that Mr S wasnt told he could secure the 1.34% 
rate on the initial call. They wanted Santander to honour the 1.34% quoted on 1 December 
2021.
Santander considered the complaint but didnt uphold it and says it advised Mr S the rate 
offered on 1 December 2021 was only valid for one day and rates could change at any time. 
Mr S and Mrs S remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Santander hadnt acted 
unreasonably in not offering Mr S and Mrs S the lower rate because it had made it clear on 
the initial call that the rate was only valid for one day. And there was no obligation on 
Santander to make Mr S aware that by completing the application he would have been able 
to secure the 1.34% rate for 14 days. 
Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr S contacted Santander on 1 December 2021, having listened to the call the advisor took 
Mr S through the products available to him. The advisor also says they could take him 
through the application to change the rate on the call and it would take 10 to 15 minutes of 
his time. But Mr S said he was just interested in what the five-year fixed rates would be to 
combine the mortgages together. 
Later in the call he was again told he could apply for the product in that call, but he said he 
would need to speak to Mrs S about it. He also said he needed to do some sums before 
getting back to Santander. 
The advisor told Mr S the interest rate was only valid for one day and could change. Mr S 
said he would bear that in mind. So Im satisfied Mr S would have been aware of the risks 
of not going ahead with the application at that time and the potential that the rate could 
increase if he didnt complete the application that day.
I understand Mr S and Mrs S felt they should have been told that they could have secured 
the rate at 1.34% if they had completed the application at the time, but there wasnt a 
requirement for Santander to notify Mr S of this. And as Ive mentioned Im satisfied Mr S 
would have been aware of the risks of not proceeding with the application that day. 
Overall I dont think Santander acted unreasonably in not telling Mr S and Mrs S they could 
cancel the application within 14 days if they had made it at the time. So it also follows I dont 
think Santander acted unfairly when it refused to honour the initial rate it told Mr S. 
While I appreciate Mr S and Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking 
anymore of Santander. 
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman