DRN-3358096
The complaint
Mr C has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined a claim under a 
commercial property insurance policy.
Mr C is represented in this case, but I will only refer to Mr C.
What happened
Mr C rented out a commercial property to tenants. He served notice on the tenants to leave 
the property. When the tenants left, Mr C was unable to access the property as the tenants 
didnt return the keys. One evening, Mr C drove passed the property and saw that it had 
been broken into. He reported it to the police and also made an insurance claim. Ultimately, 
AXA declined the claim, as it said the damage wasnt covered by the policy.
When Mr C complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
Mr C accepted he hadnt complied with some of the policy conditions for malicious damage 
and theft by tenants and she said it was fair for AXA to repudiate the claim for items such as 
the radiators and boiler part on that basis. She said even if it was plausible that a third party 
gained entry through a first window this would suggest it wasnt secure, in which case the 
claim wasnt covered by the policy anyway. She also said there wasnt evidence to show the 
shutter and window damage was caused in the way Mr C had described.
As parties didnt agree about what had happened, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the claim for the theft of the radiators and the boiler part. I cant say with 
certainty whether the tenants took these items or whether a third party broke in and did so. 
However, Mr C now seems to accept that whichever scenario it was neither was covered by 
the policy. If it was the tenants, Mr C hadnt complied with all of the relevant terms and 
conditions of the policy and as these affected the claim itself, I think it was fair that AXA 
didnt deal with the claim on that basis. If it was a third party that took the items, if I accept 
Mr Cs explanation of how they got in, they climbed on to the top of a shutter and gained 
entry through a first-floor window. Mr C now seems to accept that this would have meant the 
first-floor window wasnt secure, in which case this also wasnt covered by the policy. So, I 
dont think AXA needs to deal with this part of the claim.  
Ive also looked at the damage to the shutter and the window. There seems to have been 
disagreement about which window and shutter was damaged on the shop front. Mr C has 
said it was the left window that was smashed and the right roller shutter that was damaged. 
Based on the photos Ive seen, the only evidence of a damaged shutter was on the right 
hand side of the building. Mr C has said this shutter was pulled from its runners and could no 
longer roll freely. However, two people were later able to force it back into its boxing. Mr C 
confirmed there was no window there though. He said it was a board that had posters on it. 
Given Mr C has explained it was possible to force the roller back into place, I dont think its 
clear there was long term damage or the extent of any damage, rather than something that 
could potentially be resolved by forcing the shutter back into place. I also dont think its clear 
when the damage happened. This was described as vandalism rather than as a way for 
thieves to try and gain entry, so I dont think its clear this damage would have happened at 
the same time as the other reported events. I also understand the front of the property has 
since been changed, so there doesnt now seem to be a way to assess the extent of any 
damage and what, if any of it, should be covered by the policy. 
I also havent seen anything to show that the damage to the window happened in the way 
described or evidence of when it was most likely to have happened. If it happened around 
the time of the claim, it would either need to have been damaged through the roller that was 
covering it, which seems unlikely given the purpose of the shutter was presumably to protect 
the window, or the roller that should have been covering it wasnt in place, in which case the 
premises werent properly secured when it was a requirement of the policy that it was. 
So, thinking about all of the above, I think it was reasonable for AXA to decline the claim, as 
I dont think there was enough evidence to show any of it was covered by the policy. As a 
result, I dont require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman