DRN-3784107
The complaint
Miss M complains about the advice True Potential Wealth Management LLP 
(True Potential) gave to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Miss M to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Miss Ms.
What happened
Provisional decision 
On 16 September 2022 I issued a provisional decision and invited True Potential and Miss M 
to comment on it. For ease of reference I've copied the relevant extracts from that 
provisional decision below.
What happened
Miss M was introduced to a Firm of financial advisers, which Ill refer to as Firm C, by a 
friend around February 2019 in order to discuss her pension and retirement needs.
Firm C completed a fact-find to gather information about Miss Ms circumstances and 
objectives. It found that:
Miss M was 55 years old, single and in reasonable health.
She had some previous investment experience, as shed held endowments in the 
past and had invested into personal pension plans for a number of years. Those 
were worth £2,616 and £2,477.
She had no dependents but wanted to ensure that her pension passed to her 
godchildren on her death.
She ran her own business and had a second job. She had a net monthly income of 
£2,300.
Her home was worth around £138,000. She had an interest only offset mortgage with 
an outstanding balance of around £109,000 with an interest rate of 4.75% costing 
around £411 a month.
She had an interest free loan of around £15,000 provided by a debt charity.
She had cash savings of £1,000. She also held premium bonds worth £1,000.
Her DB pension scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £442,720. 
She had outgoings of around £2,097 a month. Clearing her mortgage using tax free 
cash (TFC) from her pension would reduce that sum to £1,686 a month. Miss M 
could then use the monthly surplus to reduce her loan. After repaying that her 
outgoings would decrease to around £1,350 a month.
Miss M anticipated she would require an income in retirement of £15,000 a year.
Miss M also answered questions about her attitude to risk. Having gathered that information 
Firm C declined to give Miss M advice about transferring her DB pension. But as Miss M 
said she wanted to proceed, it introduced her to True Potential for it to give Miss M advice.
On 22 March 2019, True Potential advised Miss M to transfer from her DB scheme into a 
personal pension. True Potentials suitability report recommending the transfer said the 
reasons for it were that in transferring she could release enough funds to pay off her 
mortgage. She could then focus some of the surplus on paying off her loan and still have 
enough income in retirement to meet her needs and provide for her godchildren on her 
death. Miss M went ahead with the transfer.
In 2020 Miss M complained to True Potential about the suitability of the transfer advice 
because, amongst other things:
Her overarching objective when seeking advice was to obtain a secure income in 
retirement. She didnt need to access her pension for at least 11 years.
Shed received a generous CETV and was considering using that to pay off her 
mortgage. But she didnt know if that was the right thing to do.
True Potential told her that she would be better off rather than worse off by 
transferring.
It uploaded its reports and documents to an online portal without attempting to 
explain those to Miss M.
Miss Ms DB scheme provided an income of £25,078 a year guaranteed for life from 
age 65. If she chose to receive a pension commencement lump sum, she was 
guaranteed to receive £118,124 and a reduced income of £17,718 a year. An 
alternative plan would have needed to achieve average returns of 8.92% or 7.3% 
respectively or a total fund value of £923,751 to match the DB benefits.
If Miss M had wanted to use TFC earlier than her retirement she could have taken 
the DB benefits prior to age 65 and still achieved her retirement income of £15,000 a 
year. True Potential didnt explore that possibility.
True Potential recorded the growth rate required for an alternative pension to match 
the DB scheme benefits  known as the critical yield  as being N/A at age 55 when 
in fact the required critical yield was over 46%.
True Potentials proposed alternative pension plan showed that the fund would be 
worth around £361,000 if it grew at 2.4% a year. This sum was far lower than the 
£923,751 she required to match the income from her DB scheme.
True Potential didnt explain the annual charges and effects of inflation on the growth 
of an alternative pension plan.
Miss M didnt use the transferred funds to pay off her mortgage.
True Potentials advice was inaccurate, unfair and misleading and the 
recommendation to transfer was unsuitable and so not in Miss Ms best interests.
True Potential didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. It said, amongst other things:
The only way for Miss M to meet her objectives of paying off her mortgage and to 
leave death benefits to her godchildren was by transferring out of her DB scheme.
Miss M was in a poor financial position.
Paying off her mortgage was very important to Miss M because of the security that 
would bring. Miss M was paying her mortgage at a high rate of interest. She didnt 
have enough disposable income to convert it to a repayment mortgage.
If Miss M had taken the benefits from her DB scheme at 55 the scheme would have 
paid her TFC of £53,855 only, with a reduced annual pension of £8,708. That wasn't 
enough to allow Miss M to pay off her mortgage of £109,000.
Had Miss M deferred taking a decision on her DB scheme until retirement she would have had 12 years of uncertainty, would not have made any impact on her debt and 
wouldn't have secured death benefits for her godchildren.
Paying off her mortgage and increasing her surplus income would allow Miss M to 
pay her other debts more quickly giving her a disposable income of £964 a month. 
She could use that income to save for her retirement. That could increase her 
retirement funds by around £115,560 which would replace the TFC drawn from the 
DB scheme.
Miss M confirmed the accuracy of the information in the suitability report.
True Potential had deemed Miss M to be a balanced investor.
The assumed growth rate for the recommended personal pension at the time was 
5.57%.
Miss M said she needed £15,000 a year income in retirement. She anticipated 
receiving a state pension of £8,579, which left a shortfall of £7,049 a year. That 
represented just 2.09% of Miss Ms expected pension funds from her personal 
pension and was easily sustainable.
True Potentials calculations showed that Miss M could have an income equivalent to 
the DB scheme for the rest of her expected lifespan by transferring out of the 
scheme.
The critical yields were higher than could have been achievable. But True Potential 
didnt use critical yield alone to decide on the suitability of a recommendation to 
transfer out of a DB scheme. It felt the age at which funds would run out was a better 
measure.
The DB scheme benefits would be difficult to match but it didnt meet Miss Ms goals 
and as such was unsuitable for her.
Miss M referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
required True Potential to pay compensation. Our investigator thought that True Potential 
had over-assessed Miss Ms attitude to risk. She said that the critical yields were too high to 
be met. Similarly the transfer value comparator (TVC) which True Potential included in its 
suitability report showed a shortfall of around £452,000 between the DB scheme value and 
True Potentials recommended replacement.
The investigator said that, overall, Miss M was likely to receive substantially lower benefits 
after transferring from the DB scheme. The investigator added that Miss M didnt have a 
pressing need to repay her debts. She said Miss M could have considered a life insurance 
policy if she wished to leave a legacy to her godchildren. The investigator concluded that 
True Potentials advice was unsuitable.
True Potential disagreed, saying amongst other things:
It hadnt overstated Miss Ms attitude to risk. But even if it had found Miss M to be a 
low to medium risk taker it would still have recommended a transfer.
Miss M was in a very poor financial position. Her priority was to release TFC to 
secure her home.
Miss M didnt require an income of £25,000 at retirement, so a critical yield to match 
that wasnt relevant.
Critical yield is not the sole factor nor the most significant factor in deciding on 
suitability of transferring out of a DB scheme.
If Miss M needed to match the benefits of her DB scheme then it would not have 
recommended the transfer.
A personal pension could provide the death benefits to Miss Ms godchildren that she 
wanted to achieve.
Miss M would have sufficient income in retirement after transferring out of the DB 
scheme.Miss M would benefit more from removing the risk of losing her home rather than the 
income her DB scheme provided at retirement.
It followed all of the regulators rules when giving advice.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Miss M and True Potential have made many points in bringing the complaint and 
replying to it. I've carefully considered everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to 
address each and every issue or point raised. Instead I will focus on the issues I see as 
being at the heart of Miss Ms complaint and the reasons for my decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons given by 
the investigator.
Request for an oral hearing or to dismiss the complaint
Prior to my consideration of the evidence True Potential asked that I convene an oral 
hearing. A hearing is where both parties to a complaint meet with an ombudsman for the 
purposes of evidence gathering. The decision on whether or not to hold such a hearing is 
entirely at the discretion of the relevant ombudsman.
True Potential said that the evidence Miss M gave in bringing her complaint was in contrast 
to that she gave when Firm Cs agent was gathering information from her. Amongst other 
things, True Potential felt that it was important to hear from Miss M in person to find out what 
her financial position would have been now if she hadn't gone ahead with the transfer.
I declined True Potentials request for an oral hearing. I explained that it was unlikely I would 
allow the parties to cross-examine each other. I added that I had no powers to take evidence 
under oath. I said I was satisfied I could gather enough information in writing to come to a 
fair and reasonable conclusion on the complaint.
True Potential has since restated that it thinks I should hold an oral hearing. It added that I 
was obliged to rely on what the documented and contemporaneous file records. And that 
should I wish to rely on any allegations then fairness would demand that I hold a hearing. It 
said that if I did not consider the issue can be decided without cross examination then I 
should dismiss the case without considering its merits on the basis this dispute is more 
suited to a court.
As I've said previously I'm satisfied that an oral hearing isn't required and True Potentials 
recent comments havent persuaded me otherwise. So I've considered its request that I 
dismiss the case as more suited to a court. It might help if I explain that our rules (the DISP 
rules, as set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook) allow me to dismiss a 
complaint without considering its merits in certain circumstances, where I consider it 
appropriate. DISP 3.3.4A(5) says that I may dismiss a complaint where I consider that 
dealing with it would seriously impair the effective operation of the Financial Ombudsman Service. And DISP 3.3.4B gives examples of complaints that would seriously impair our 
effective operation, which includes:
(1) where it would be more suitable for the complaint to be dealt with by a court or a 
comparable ADR entity
And I consider that this is the DISP rule that True Potential wishes me to apply now. 
Although I note it actually referred to DISP 3.3.4(10) when it asked me to consider dismissal. 
However, that paragraph applies only to complaints brought to our service before 
9 July 2015, which is not the case here.
Having considered True Potentials request carefully I'm satisfied that a fair and reasonable 
conclusion can be reached without a requirement for the parties to submit to 
cross-examination. Its notable that, in making its dismissal request, True Potential wants to 
occupy two opposing positions at the same time. On the one hand it has argued that I should 
rely on the contemporaneous evidence. That would be the evidence available to 
True Potential at the time it gave its advice. On the other it believes that I can only come to a 
fair conclusion by taking oral evidence from Miss M about what her position would likely be 
now if she hadn't gone ahead with the DB transfer. In other words that would be to rely on 
evidence that was anything but contemporaneous with True Potentials advice. The two 
arguments do not sit well together.
In any event, what I am considering now, is the suitability of True Potentials advice in 2019. 
In order to consider that fully and fairly Ive made enquiries of both True Potential and 
Miss M. Having done so Im satisfied that I can arrive at a fair and reasonable conclusion 
based on the evidence in front of me, without the requirement to take evidence orally or to 
submit either party to cross-examination. It follows that I do not intend to dismiss the case 
without considering its merits. And I've set out my analysis of the evidence below.
The regulators position
The FCA states in its Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting 
assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, True Potential should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Miss Ms best 
interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Financial viability
One of the tools True Potential used when preparing Miss Ms suitability report was a TVC. 
This compares the size of the total fund that would be required to match the benefits of 
Miss Ms DB scheme if the funds were reinvested into a low risk alternative arrangement.
True Potentials calculation shows that, in order to match those benefits, her fund would 
need to grow by an additional £452,877 in the next ten years. So in order to have an 
equivalent return from transferring out of the DB scheme the new pension pot would need to 
more than double in size. That seems a highly unlikely prospect.
Ive noted that True Potential has occasionally made contradictory comments when looking 
at the financial viability of transferring out of the scheme. For example at one point it said 
that if Miss M had wanted to match the benefits of her DB scheme then it would have 
advised her not to transfer. In other words, it acknowledged that its recommendation to 
transfer would not match the scheme benefits. But at other times, it said Miss M could match 
the DB benefits for the rest of her expected life by drawing down an income from her 
investments. But it cant have it both ways, either True Potential knows an alternative 
arrangement was unlikely to match the scheme benefits or it didnt. And I'm satisfied it was aware that Miss M was highly likely to be worse off by transferring out of the scheme. If that 
was not the case I dont think it would have said that if Miss Ms goals had been to match the 
DB benefits it wouldnt have made the recommendation to transfer.
Ive seen that True Potential said in its suitability report that it wasnt concerned that the size 
of the TVC was substantial because it didnt believe that the assumptions the TVC was 
based on applied to the investments it was recommending. But, I dont think its comments in 
terms of giving Miss M regulated advice were appropriate. The regulator required 
True Potential to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests 
of its client. In addition, True Potential was required to provide information that was clear, 
fair and not misleading. So, True Potentials advice had to be clear and Miss M needed to 
understand the implications of it.
The purpose of the TVC is to give some context to the CETV from the DB scheme. The 
regulator has said that many consumers struggle to understand the underlying value of a 
guaranteed income. It added that some consumers may even regard the CETV as more like 
a lottery win, than a sum of money that will provide in their retirement until they die. So 
advising firms like True Potential should use the TVC to help their clients understand the 
inherent value in their existing DB scheme. Thats the case even where the consumer 
concerned has indicated that theyre comfortable giving up the guaranteed income of a DB 
scheme. So True Potential should have used the TVC as a method to discuss with Miss M 
her understanding of the benefits she would be giving up by transferring out of the DB 
scheme. But thats not what True Potential did. Instead its report essentially implies that the 
TVC didnt apply to Miss Ms situation and overall I think its remarks undermine the TVCs 
worth in explaining what Miss M would be giving up. And I think that in taking that approach 
True Potential wasnt providing advice that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Prior to introducing the requirement for advising firms to provide TVC figures, the regulator 
instead required firms to produce a different form of transfer value analysis. That, generally, 
used a calculation of critical yields as a comparator for what the consumer would be giving 
up by transferring out of the DB scheme. And its notable that True Potentials transfer 
analysis documents also referred to critical yields as well as TVC figures.
True Potential gave Miss M advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 
our service published similar rates on our website. Whilst businesses weren't required to 
refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication 
of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical 
investor.
The critical yield required to match Miss Ms benefits at age 65 was 8.92% if she took a full 
pension or 7.3% if she took TFC and a reduced pension. The relevant discount rate closest 
to when the advice was given which I can refer to was published by our Service for the 
period before 1 October 2017, and was 3.8% per year for 10 years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Miss Ms (at most) balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be 
little point in Miss M giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only 
to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest 
critical yield was 7.3% I think Miss M was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk.True Potential took issue with our investigator concluding that its advice was unsuitable, in 
part, because she found that the critical yield figures weren't achievable. True Potential 
noted that the regulator no longer requires advising firms to refer to critical yields. But I note 
that True Potentials suitability report refers to the critical yield figure on more than one 
occasion. So, if it thinks this measure is of little value then its not clear why it decided to 
include it in its own report. And I note that it said the critical yield was not achievable if 
Miss M chose to take her DB benefits at age 55. But it said that the critical yield was 
achievable if Ms M took an annuity at age 75. And on that occasion it referred to a  fairly 
low  critical yield of only 0.7%. But the report doesn't explain why its focusing on a critical 
yield calculated at age 75 or how that compared to the high level of critical yield at age 65 
when Miss M was likely to take a regular retirement income.
I'm aware that one of the reasons the regulator decided to move away from using critical 
yield figures and to focus on TVCs was because of a concern that many consumers wouldnt 
fully understand what the critical yield figures mean. And I've noted that, when replying to 
our investigator's assessment it appears that True Potential has itself become confused as 
its referred to the discount rate as being the critical yield rate. But the two things aren't the 
same. The discount rate is what we consider to be a likely achievable growth rate based 
upon a combination of assets including Bank of England bond rates and also equity returns.
True Potentials pointed out that weve referred to a rate that we stopped publishing in 2017, 
when it gave its advice around 18 months later in 2019. And while I think that's a reasonable 
comment to make, the reason we still refer to the discount rate is because the rates involved 
in calculating it have not changed significantly since we finished publishing them. So 
discount rates remain a reasonable indicator of whether or not an investment return is 
achievable. But in any event its not the only measure we use. And, in this case I've also 
looked at the regulators projection rates, the critical yields and the TVC. None of those, in 
my view, would support a transfer away from Miss Ms DB scheme as being in her best 
interests on financial grounds.
True Potential said that its cashflow models show Miss M wouldve been able to meet her 
needs despite the high critical yields. True Potential hasnt actually shown us the workings of 
its cashflow models, its only given the ages by when it says Miss M will deplete her funds if 
she accesses those at the same rate as her DB scheme. And, while it hasnt shown us its 
calculations it does say that its assumption is that the personal pension it advised Miss M to 
invest in will continue to perform at least the mid-level investment return level.
But, as True Potential knows, past performance is no guarantee for future performance. And 
even if I accepted that the personal pension funds could grow at the rates True Potential 
predicted, if Miss M lived longer than expected, or there was a period of poor investment 
performance, there was a real possibility that her funds could run out sooner than its cash-
flow models show. I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to 
be more realistic in this regard in the long term, rather than projecting historic returns 
forward, particularly over such a long period of time. So overall, I think it ought to have been 
clear to True Potential that Miss M was likely to be worse off financially if she transferred out 
of the DB scheme.
Also I need to think about Miss Ms capacity to absorb investment losses. Apart from her 
state pension, Miss M only had around a further £5,000 invested in pension funds and she 
had very little in the way of savings; so I don't think she was in a position to absorb any 
losses if the personal pension didnt perform as predicted. True Potentials argued that the 
fact Miss M didnt need to take an income until her normal retirement age and the scale of 
the personal pension investment gave her that capacity for loss. But I dont think its 
reasonable to say that the very fund that could be subject to losses was itself capable of 
protecting her from those losses. This was Miss Ms only significant source of retirement income outside of her state pension, and as such any losses she suffered would 
undoubtedly lead to a reduced retirement income. Thats not a risk she would have needed 
to take if shed have stayed in her DB scheme.
For the reasons given above, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in Miss Ms 
best interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice, as True Potential has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which 
mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these 
below.
Flexibility and TFC
As I've said above I think the TVC, critical yields and discount rate were all too high for an 
alternative arrangement to match the scheme benefits in monetary terms, on the basis of 
reasonable assumptions. So I think that made it all the more important that the other reasons 
for transferring were sufficiently compelling.
True Potential has focused on Miss Ms desire to take TFC early in order to pay off her 
interest only mortgage and the loan owing to the debt management charity. I've seen that 
True Potential clearly set this out as being one of Miss Ms financial objectives. In contrast 
Miss M says that, while this was something she was considering, and one of the reasons 
she was looking for advice, she could afford her mortgage and debt repayments and as such 
had no need to take her TFC when she did.
I've noted that, when she made her complaint, Miss M said that her objective at the time she 
asked for advice was to obtain a secure income in retirement. But, the suitability report 
doesn't at any point suggest that Miss M gave this as being her overarching objective. And, 
in answer to my enquiries, shes confirmed that she doesn't have any evidence, beyond her 
recollection, that was the case. Further, the suitability report refers on several occasions to 
Miss Ms principal objective being to take TFC to consider paying off her mortgage. And I 
note that, after she received that report, she didnt challenge or object to True Potentials 
summary of her objectives at the time. And Miss M has acknowledged that she was 
interested in taking advice on whether or not to use her DB pension to pay off her mortgage.
So I'm satisfied that, at the time True Potential gave its advice, Miss Ms principal concern 
was around releasing funds to take TFC, rather than securing her income in retirement. So I 
think it was reasonable for True Potential to proceed on that basis. But that doesn't mean its 
advice to transfer out of the scheme was suitable.
While True Potential has recorded that Miss Ms objective was to take TFC straightaway, I've 
seen no evidence it discussed with Miss M in detail why she felt she needed to do that. In 
fact theres no evidence it discussed anything with Miss M at any point, she only spoke with 
Firm Cs adviser. And, at that time Miss M was meeting her regular mortgage and loan 
repayments with a small amount left over each month which she was using to buy premium 
bonds. So its not the case that she couldnt afford her outgoings and, at that time, she 
estimated that her loan from the debt charity would be paid off in around two years. That was 
long before she was due to retire. Once that loan was repaid her disposable income would 
increase by around £350 a month. But, in transferring out of the DB scheme Miss M would 
be giving up a risk free and increasing annual retirement income that was guaranteed for the 
rest of her life. But I can't see that True Potential explored with her why she was prepared to 
give up such valuable benefits in the long-term for a shorter term gain.
Further, I've noted True Potentials argument that, by taking TFC and paying off her 
mortgage and other debts, Miss M could reinvest the resultant disposable income into saving 
for her retirement. But, to my mind, it seems illogical for Miss M to decide to take money out of one pension, simply to allow her to pay money into another pension that was unlikely to 
match the benefits shed be giving up.
Also I can't see that True Potential fully considered Miss Ms other options. For example, as 
I've said above, without transferring her funds Miss M could have expected to pay off her 
loan to the charity in around two years. That would have freed up disposable income for her. 
And, when she reached the DB scheme retirement age of 65 one option would have been to 
take her TFC from the scheme at that point. That would have allowed her to comfortably pay 
off her interest only mortgage, with money left over, and also benefit from the guarantees 
provided by her DB scheme.
Another alternative would have been for Miss M to take her DB benefits sooner. While the 
lump sum payable at age 55 wouldnt have been enough to cover both her mortgage and her 
debt. It would have allowed her to pay off the loan as well as, if she chose to do so, 
contribute a significant sum towards her offset mortgage which would have reduced her 
outgoings. It also would have given her an additional income, for the rest of her life, 
increasing with indexation, which she could have used for a more comfortable lifestyle. But I 
can't see that True Potential explored this option with Miss M.
In fact, I can't see that True Potential discussed its recommendation with Miss M at all. It 
seems that rather than talking her through its analysis and recommendation it instead simply 
made its suitability report and other documents available to Miss M through its online portal. 
It then said, if she wanted to go ahead, to sign the appropriate forms. True Potential told us 
that it wasnt required to meet with or speak to Miss M. I agree thats the case. But that 
doesn't mean it had ensured she understood the implications of its advice. Similarly, there's 
no evidence that True Potential effectively advised Miss M about the long-term nature of 
pension planning. That is the need for a pot of funds to provide an income for many years 
ahead.
True Potentials role was to discern what Miss Ms wants and needs were and why she 
wanted to transfer her pension. Its role wasnt simply to do what she wished without 
appropriate analysis and challenge of her motives for doing so with the implications of taking 
those actions with her. But I've seen no evidence of such a challenge even though that was 
in Miss Ms best interests. And I dont think True Potential met its obligations to challenge 
her objectives in light of what she would be giving up. Nor did it fully explore what she could 
achieve through other means without giving up the benefits from her DB scheme. This is 
because based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think she had a genuine need to access 
her TFC earlier than the normal scheme retirement age.
So, Im satisfied Miss M could have met her income needs in retirement through the DB 
scheme at 65 or sooner if she preferred. True Potential recorded that Miss M needed 
£15,000 a year in retirement. And under the DB scheme, after taking TFC of over £118,000 
Miss M was entitled to an annual income of over £17,000 from the scheme at 65, which was 
comfortably more than her needs without factoring in her state pension. She would also have 
paid off her loan by then and the lump sum would have allowed her to pay off her mortgage 
in full. So, while I can see that the prospect of reducing or paying off her debts at age 55 
would have been attractive for her, that doesn't mean it was in her best interests. And this is 
something that True Potential should have brought to her attention. But it didnt do so.
Ill add that True Potential has said that Miss M had a poor credit history and was paying a 
higher level of mortgage interest as a result. It said she would have struggled to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments had those been subject to upward fluctuations in the market.
I havent seen anywhere on file where True Potential has actually done an analysis of 
Miss Ms credit score. So it appears that it was basing its conclusion about Miss M's credit 
worthiness on the fact that she had a loan from a debt charity, which would likely indicate a poor credit history. But I note that Miss M had been repaying that debt for over nine years at 
the time of True Potentials advice, so its possible that her credit score could have improved. 
But even if that wasnt the case, as I've already said, Miss M was scheduled to repay her 
debt charity loan in around two years, which would have given her greater capacity to absorb 
any increase in mortgage payments that happened after that. Further, if mortgage 
repayments had become unaffordable Miss M could have looked into taking her DB benefits 
at that point which would have given her TFC as well as an extra, guaranteed and index 
linked income. So I don't think she needed to take TFC at the point that she did
Further, I asked Miss M how shed used her TFC. Miss M provided evidence to show that, 
rather than paying off her entire mortgage, shed instead paid around £44,000 off it. She 
used the rest of her TFC for other things. And while True Potential can't have known for 
certain exactly what Miss M would do with her TFC once received, her evidence supports 
her position that she wasnt in desperate need to pay off her mortgage at the time. As, had 
that been the case, I believe she would have done so.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. At the time of the advice Miss M didnt 
have a partner or any dependents but she did wish to leave a legacy for her godchildren. As 
such I can understand that the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension 
was likely an attractive feature to Miss M.
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Miss M might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Miss M about what was best for her retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think 
True Potential explored to what extent Miss M was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits for her godchildren.
Its worth noting that the death benefits available from the personal pension would decrease 
over time. So the funds available for Miss Ms godchildren on her death would continue to 
reduce as Miss M drew down sums for her income needs. And that amount would likely be 
further reduced the longer Miss M lived for. So, depending on her lifespan and the funds 
shed taken from her personal pension, the fund might not have a large  if indeed any  
sum left at the time of Miss Ms death. In any event, True Potential should not have 
encouraged Miss M to prioritise the potential for higher sums being available at her death 
through a personal pension over her security in retirement.
Further, if Miss M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her godchildren, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death, I 
think True Potential should have instead explored life insurance or term insurance.
True Potentials said that, as money was tight for Miss M then she couldn't afford life 
insurance. But, while she did take regular medication, Miss M had no serious health issues 
that I'm aware of and she was channelling at least £100 a month into buying premium 
bonds. That was money she could have diverted to pay for life or term insurance.
Also, I note that True Potential has made conflicting statements about the significance of 
death benefits. In response to our investigator's assessment of the complaint True Potential 
told us that the provision of death benefits was not a significant driver for its 
recommendation. But True Potential has noted death benefits as being one of Miss Ms 
principal objectives in its suitability report. The report has a separate section dealing with 
death benefits. It says that death benefits in the DB scheme are poor and it describes the 
death benefits on offer from the personal pension as being a much better solution. And it mentions death benefits on numerous occasions. So, if True Potential didnt intend to stress 
the importance of death benefits then I think its suitability report is misleading.
Summary
I dont doubt that access to TFC and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Miss M. But True Potential 
wasnt there to just transact what Miss M might have thought she wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Miss M needed and recommend what was in her best 
interests.
True Potential was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised 
Miss M about what was in her best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable 
pension pots like Miss Ms DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for 
retirement. But Miss Ms chosen path was to give up that income in retirement for the chance 
of getting hold of a large lump sum of cash, which, while no doubt being a mouth-watering 
temptation, she had no obvious need for, rather than long-term planning.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice True Potential gave to Miss M was suitable. She was 
giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Miss M was very 
likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular 
reasons which would justify a transfer to outweigh this. True Potential should not have 
advised Miss M to transfer out of the scheme just to repay debts that were affordable, and 
the potential for higher death benefits for her godchildren wasnt worth giving up the 
guarantees associated with her DB scheme.
So, I think True Potential should have advised Miss M to remain in the scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Miss M would've gone ahead anyway, against 
True Potential's advice if it had recommended she remain in the scheme. Ive considered 
this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Miss M wouldve insisted on transferring out of the 
DB scheme, against True Potentials advice. I say this because Miss M was an 
inexperienced investor with at best a balanced attitude to risk and this pension accounted for 
the vast majority of her retirement provision. So, if True Potential had provided her with clear 
advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best 
interests, I think she would have accepted that advice. Thats particularly the case as Firm C 
had already declined to advise her to transfer out of her DB scheme for the reasons shed 
given.
In light of the above, I think True Potential should compensate Miss M for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Further 
as the unsuitable advice has clearly been a source of distress and inconvenience for Miss M, 
I think its fair and reasonable that True Potential pays her £300 compensation on top of the 
sums set out below.
Developments 
Miss M accepted my provisional decision, True Potential didnt. It provided two detailed 
responses, dated 24 September 2022 and 11 October 2022, which we received readable 
versions of on 25 and 26 October respectively. The replies are similar but not identical. 
Amongst other things they said:
I had failed to reply to its request for an oral hearing. It said the first time it had 
become aware I had declined that request was when it received my provisional 
decision. In rejecting the oral hearing I was in breach of the rule set out in DISP 3.5.6.
In making her complaint Miss M provided false and inaccurate information 
evidenced by points as simple as the accusation that [True Potential] advised 
[Miss M] to opt out of her pension scheme. As such deciding the complaint without 
an oral hearing would be unfair.
I had unfairly taken True Potentials statements out of context. For example, it was 
factually correct to say that if Miss M wanted to replicate the DB scheme benefits it 
would not have recommended transferring. But it also factually accurately said that 
Miss M could take the same benefits from a drawdown product that would last 
beyond her life expectancy. That is not to say that [True Potential] were 
recommending she did that, nor that it would be suitable for her objectives, as 
demonstrated in our suitability report, complaint response and submissions to FOS. 
It had not said that its recommendation would not match the DB scheme benefits but 
instead, using FCA regulated analysis, had shown that it could be matched.
Eight months after it had given Miss M advice, the FCA visited it and reviewed seven 
of its advice files, all of which it deemed suitable and with similar comments about the 
suitability of TVCs. As such its said that the implication in my provisional decision 
that it hadn't acted honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client was incorrect and potentially defamatory.
The FCAs review also included cases where the critical yield exceeded our discount 
rate, but the FCA found the advice suitable. 
It believed that DISP 3.6.4R did not permit us to have regard to discount rates when 
determining a complaint. 
My decision acknowledged that firms were not required to refer to discount rates and 
so I couldnt conclude that it acted unreasonably in not doing so. 
Critical yields are of limited relevance and are not the only factor to consider. And 
critical yield calculations do not take into consideration many other circumstances 
affecting the individual such as  amongst others  objectives, financial 
circumstances, lump sum needs etc. 
Critical yields assume an individual will be buying an annuity, which rarely occurs and 
Miss M wasnt considering. She required immediate TFC to stabilize her precarious 
financial position, with no option of obtaining a better mortgage rate. So, the critical 
yield didnt provide a comparison between the DB scheme benefits and those Miss M 
wished to achieve.
The FCA issued an alert in January 2017 advising against firms attaching too much 
weight to critical yields and said they should consider other factors such as the 
clients personal circumstances. 
The FCAs consultation document CP 17/16, Advising on Pension Transfers, 
acknowledged that the current method of performing a transfer value analysis was 
based around critical yields. But said the environment had changed and annuities 
were no longer the default position with flexible drawdown becoming increasingly 
popular. True Potential said that those were documents I needed to have regard to. 
The discount rate, which factors weightings to phase into low risk assets prior to 
retirement, is not a viable method of assessment for someone who wanted to access 
benefits immediately. 
True Potential had advised Miss M to invest for the long-term and as such to 
maintain a higher return. In those circumstances the discount rate understates the 
likely return from drawdown. And adjusting for that would demonstrate that the 
transfer was financially viable. 
If Miss M took expected withdrawals of £7,409 a year from a fund of £332,040 from 
age 67, ignoring investment growth, that fund would last her 45 years. So it was 
inconceivable that the fund would be depleted.
Miss M was in a highly precarious financial position at the time of the advice. 
It was clear from the fact-find why Miss M would want to repay her mortgage as she was working two jobs and subject to mortgage interest rate risk. 
Life insurance wasnt affordable for Miss M and recommending she take her DB 
benefits while buying a life insurance policy would have left her with a shortfall of 
income in retirement. 
Firm C had not, as I said, declined to advise Miss M to transfer out of the DB scheme 
but had declined to provide advice because it did not have the relevant FCA 
permissions to provide such advice.
True Potential believed that Miss M would always have found a way to transfer out of 
her DB scheme. 
It said it was possible Miss M had provided false information to True Potential at the 
time of its recommendation and is now seeking redress to pay the remainder of her 
mortgage, which she is unable to do any other way. It said this could be discussed 
at an oral hearing.
My provisional decision failed to acknowledge that alternative solutions wouldnt have 
met Miss Ms needs and as such is flawed and based on Miss Ms false information. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I'm not going to depart from my provisional decision. And Ill deal with what 
I see as being True Potentials key objection to my provisional decision below.
Oral hearing request
True Potential said that I hadn't previously replied to its oral hearing request and the first 
time it knew I had declined that request was when it received my provisional decision. But 
thats not accurate. I wrote to True Potential on 18 August 2022 explaining why I didn't think I 
needed to hold an oral hearing in order to fairly decide the complaint. And True Potential 
responded to that letter on 8 September 2022. So it had clearly received it and read it. And 
while it continued to argue that it felt an oral hearing was appropriate I addressed those 
comments in my provisional decision and gave it the opportunity to respond at that stage. 
True Potential said that Miss M had made false and inaccurate statements when making her 
complaint. And as such an oral hearing was required. True Potential has referred to 
evidence of Miss M making false and inaccurate statements such as:
the accusation that [True Potential] advised [Miss M] to opt out of her pension scheme
Its not in doubt that True Potential advised Miss M to transfer the benefits from her DB 
scheme to a personal pension. So to anyone unfamiliar with DB transfer terminology there is 
nothing within he statement above which is inaccurate. But, when referring to DB schemes, 
the term opting out would only refer to someone who was an active member of a DB 
scheme. That is they were (generally) still working for the employer sponsoring the scheme 
and still making contributions into it. That wasnt the case for Miss M who had already left the 
pension scheme at the time of True Potentials advice. That meant she was a deferred 
member rather than an active member. So True Potential wasnt in a position to advise her 
to opt-out because that wasnt possible. Instead it advised her to transfer out of the 
scheme. In other words the false and inaccurate information True Potential refers to above 
is the use of the term opt out rather than transfer out.
But while Miss M might have used an incorrect term when raising her complaint, I think 
True Potential must have understood that was an innocent error. I dont see a mistake in terminology of that nature, that clearly isn't material as to whether or not True Potentials 
recommendation for Miss M to transfer was suitable, as a deliberate attempt to provide false 
and inaccurate information. And it certainly doesn't warrant an oral hearing to address. 
I would also point out that, in my provisional decision, I found that Miss M had more likely 
than not told True Potential that her principal concern was to take TFC, rather than securing 
her income in retirement. So it was reasonable for True Potential to proceed with its advice 
on that basis. And I've seen no other disputed facts, that are material to my decision, that 
would warrant holding an oral hearing. 
Further True Potentials said that in declining its oral hearing request I was in breach of DISP 
3.5.6. But that paragraph (3.5.6) is an instruction as to what a party requesting an oral 
hearing must do. It places no procedural onus on me whatsoever. And DISP 3.5.5 makes 
clear that where I decide that I can fairly decide a complaint without holding an oral hearing 
then I should do so. That's the situation here. Ive previously explained to True Potential why 
I dont think an oral hearing is required and it hasnt provided any evidence that persuades 
me otherwise. So I'm satisfied that I can fairly and reasonably decide this complaint without 
convening such a hearing. And, as I've said previously, the decision on whether or not to 
hold an oral hearing is entirely at my discretion.
Matching the DB scheme benefits
True Potential said that I took some of its comments out of context. In particular, it said that it 
was factually correct to say that if Miss M wanted to replicate the DB scheme benefits it 
would not have recommended transferring. But it also factually accurately said that Miss M 
could take the same benefits from a drawdown product that would last beyond her life 
expectancy. It added: That is not to say that we were recommending she did that, nor that it 
would be suitable for her objectives, as demonstrated in our suitability report, complaint 
response and submissions to FOS. So its point was that it hadnt said that its 
recommendation would not match the DB scheme benefits but instead, using FCA regulated 
analysis, had shown that it could be matched.
True Potential seems to be saying that, if Miss M had wanted to recreate her DB scheme 
benefits then it wouldnt have recommended a transfer. But matching the DB scheme 
benefits wasnt suitable for her objectives. So its advice wasnt based on matching those 
benefits but in achieving her objectives. I'm grateful for its clarification but it doesn't change 
my stance on the suitability of its advice. 
As I said in my provisional decision and as I expand upon below, the objectives 
True Potential refer to weren't in my view worth giving up the DB scheme benefits for. 
The FCAs review, TVC, critical yields and discount rates
True Potential told us the FCA had reviewed seven of its files where it gave similar advice to 
that given to Miss M about the suitability of using TVCs as a comparator. I wasnt party to 
what the FCA reviewed or what it found, nor do I need to be. I dont work for the FCA and 
our function isn't a regulatory one. And while I'm required to consider the regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, my role is to decide whether True Potential has acted fairly and 
reasonably in all the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
True Potential complied with the FCAs requirements for it to provide a TVC. And, as I said in 
my provisional decision, I understand that the reason for requiring a firm to do so is to allow 
consumers like Miss M to have an understanding of the value of the guaranteed benefits 
they are giving up. The TVC will nearly always be higher than the transfer value being 
offered. If the TVC has the effect of discouraging a consumer from transferring, because they dont want to take that level of risk  that would be consistent with the regulators 
expectation that most people would be better off remaining in their DB scheme. 
True Potential produced the TVC calculation before essentially saying it wasnt relevant 
because Miss M didnt wish to buy an annuity. Even though the regulator required a 
comparison using the CETV and TVC. And the TVC clearly demonstrated that Miss M was 
giving up benefits that were of greater cash value than the personal pension she was 
transferring to. So, in dismissing the relevance of the TVC in its suitability report, I believe 
True Potential was undermining its value. And without putting its advice into context of being 
absolutely clear why it would cost Miss M an additional £452,877 to replicate the risk free 
benefits of her DB scheme, I think True Potentials advice was not clear, fair and not 
misleading. So I stand by the comments in my provisional decision, based as they are on a 
full analysis of all the evidence. 
Similarly, the FCA might have found True Potentials advice to be suitable in cases where 
the critical yields exceeded our discount rates. But that doesn't automatically mean that 
True Potential acted fairly and reasonably when giving advice to Miss M. 
I said in my provisional decision that critical yields weren't the only measure I used when 
looking at the financial viability of advice to transfer. I also considered the TVC, discount 
rates, and the regulators projections. True Potentials said that DISP 3.6.4R doesn't permit 
us to use discount rates. But True Potential is mistaken. DISP 3.6.4R says:
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
So DISP 3.6.4R simply sets out that I must take into account what is relevant. Its certainly 
not prescriptive about anything I should omit. And, for the reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision I'm satisfied that our discount rates remain relevant. 
Further, I didn't at any point conclude that True Potential had acted unfairly simply because it 
hadn't referred to our discount rates. And as Ive said previously I think discount rates are a 
reasonable additional consideration when seeking to find out what level of growth was likely 
to be achievable at the time of the advice. 
Similarly, True Potential said the critical yield is of limited relevance because it is also based 
on the growth required to produce a fund large enough to purchase an annuity on the same 
basis as the benefits provided by the DB scheme. I accept that Miss M most likely indicated 
that she didnt intend to buy an annuity. I'm also aware of the FCA's advice as set out in its 
alert of January 2017 and the comments in its consultation paper CP 17/16 that annuities 
were no longer the default position for people investing in or looking to take their pension. 
I'm also aware of the amendments the FCA made to its COBS guidance after analysing the 
responses to its consultation paper. But that doesn't make the critical yield completely 
irrelevant either. Thats because, where a critical yield is much higher than a reasonable 
achievable investment return, its an indication that it will be difficult to better the DB pension benefits overall, even when using drawdown. And I don't believe that Miss M had the 
capacity for loss to protect her from the multiple risks associated with drawdown products. 
Further Miss M was still some 12 years from her intended retirement date. So its certainly 
possible that between the date of True Potentials advice and Miss M taking her retirement 
income, that she could change her mind and want at least some guaranteed income in 
retirement (which she could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme). And as such 
critical yields still have some value in comparing the benefits of a DB scheme against the 
proposed alternative personal pension. 
Ill repeat that I didn't only look at a comparison between critical yields and discount rates. 
And I've noted that True Potential said its cashflow models showed Miss M wouldnt deplete 
her funds before her anticipated life expectancy. While I havent seen those models I accept 
True Potentials evidence here. But I understand that True Potentials cashflow models were 
based on the personal pension fund consistently performing at the regulators mid-level rate, 
when given the known volatility of the markets, that seems an unlikely prospect. 
I also accept that True Potentials models would have involved Miss M leaving her residual 
funds invested after taking TFC initially. And I note that True Potential said that, even without 
investment growth, based on Miss M withdrawing £7,049 a year her pension pot of over 
£332,000 would last her for 45 years. So the prospect of her depleting her funds was 
inconceivable. But, that comment makes certain assumptions including:
Miss M would not take any further income from her personal pension until she turned 
67;
She would limit any drawdown from that point to £7,049 a year.
The fund would not suffer losses or be reduced by fees.
But, as I'm sure True Potential are aware, pensions freedoms mean that people aged 55 or 
over, like Miss M, can take funds out of their personal pension plans as and when they see 
fit. So, one of the risks inherent with moving benefits from a DB scheme to a drawdown 
arrangement is that the individuals concerned will access those funds earlier or at a higher 
level than when they took advice. And that gives considerable scope for funds to be depleted 
sooner than anticipated
Further, while I accept that Miss M told Firm Cs agent that she would only need an income 
of £15,000 in retirement at age 67 that was her estimate at that point. She still had 12 years 
to her preferred retirement age and in that time her needs could change. And a change in 
needs or circumstances could lead to her wanting to access her funds earlier or at a higher 
level than at the time of True Potentials advice. So there was the potential for Miss M to 
deplete the funds earlier than her life expectancy by transferring out of the scheme. Whereas 
her income from the DB scheme would be at least £17,718 a year if she took it at age 65 
and £8,700 a year if she took it immediately, at age 55. And that income would be 
guaranteed and increasing with the relevant indexation levels. So I don't think it was 
financially viable for Mis M to transfer out of the scheme.
Miss Ms circumstances 
True Potential said that Miss Ms finances were in a highly precarious position at the time 
of its advice. But, while she certainly wasnt awash with cash I dont think its fair to say her 
position was precarious. The fact-find showed that she had a disposable income of around 
£200 each month from a net income of around £2,300. And she was meeting her mortgage 
and debt repayments without any recorded difficulty. So, while its evident that she was 
considering the advantages of paying off her mortgage early, there's no evidence that she was in any way desperate to do so. In other words early repayment of her mortgage might 
have been something that would be nice to achieve, but it wasnt essential to her. And that 
was further evidenced because Miss M chose not to pay off her entire mortgage after she 
received the TFC.
Also, True Potential said Miss M would always have found a way to transfer. And that she 
might have given it false information at the time of its recommendation. I dont know what 
false information True Potential believes Miss M gave. Its notable that it didnt ever speak 
with Miss M directly and relied on the evidence provided by Firm C. And while that 
information does indicate that Miss M was interested in taking TFC and repaying her 
mortgage, it doesn't show that she was in a dire financial position or desperate to pay off her 
mortgage. Instead it seems that this is how True Potential has interpreted that evidence, 
without seeking clarification from Mis M at the time. And, as I've said previously, I think that if 
True Potential had clearly set out why a transfer wasnt in Miss Ms best interests, I don't 
think she would have gone ahead with it. True Potential hasnt provided any other evidence 
that persuades me to change that position.
Further, True Potential suggested that Miss M is now seeking redress to pay the remainder 
of her mortgage which  it said  shes unable to do by any other means. But True Potential 
hasnt provided evidence to support that statement. And, in contrast, I've seen that while 
Miss M still has an outstanding balance of around £52,000 on her mortgage. She also had 
funds in her personal pension (as of April 2022) of over £243,000 which she could use to 
repay her mortgage if she chooses. So its not the case she has no other means with which 
to do that. 
Death benefits
True Potential has repeated that life insurance wasnt affordable for Miss M. But I don't know 
how its arrived at that conclusion. Miss M could have diverted the £100 a month she was 
paying into premium bonds towards life insurance if providing a legacy for her godchildren 
was of such significant importance to her. Further, the starting point for True Potential ought 
to have been to ask Miss M how much she would ideally like to leave to her godchildren. It 
could then have looked into cover on a whole of life or term assurance basis, for that sum. 
Miss M had no significant ongoing health concerns, so such a policy was likely to be a lot 
cheaper to provide than some other policies on the market. But True Potential hasnt 
presented any evidence that it put this possibility to Miss M. And given that the potential for 
securing higher death benefits meant giving up the guaranteed benefits from her DB 
scheme, I dont think those were worth it. 
Firm Cs actions
True Potential said that Firm C hadn't declined to provide transfer advice but, instead, didnt 
have the relevant regulatory permissions to do so. That is simply not accurate. Firm C has 
told us, and the FCAs register confirms, that it did hold the relevant permission to give DB 
transfer advice. Also, Firm C said that it chose not to give Miss M advice because her 
objective of seeking a pension transfer in order to pay off debts didnt match its internal 
policies for giving such advice. 
Summary
I accept that when Miss M approached Firm C for advice, her goals at the time included 
considering taking TFC to pay off her mortgage. She also clearly expressed an interest in 
leaving funds to her godchildren in the event of her death. But there's no evidence on file 
that either of those goals was an absolute must have. I think its worth repeating that 
True Potentials role wasnt simply to transact what Miss M might have thought she wanted. I don't find achieving either of those goals was worthwhile giving up a guaranteed, index 
linked, income in retirement for. So I think True Potentials advice should have gone further 
and included challenging Miss Ms motivation for her objectives in light of what she would be 
giving up. But it didnt do so. It should have clearly explained to Miss M that it was in her best 
interests to remain in the DB scheme. And, had it done that unequivocally I think she would 
have accepted that advice. 
It follows that I think True Potential should compensate Miss M for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And, as this 
matter has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Miss M it should also pay her 
£300 to address that. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for True Potential to put Miss M as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for its unsuitable advice.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Miss M whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published.
Miss M didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case she doesnt 
want to wait for any new guidance. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Miss M.
True Potential must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, while Miss M has taken some funds from her personal pension, as far as I'm 
aware she has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Miss Ms acceptance of the decision.
True Potential may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Miss Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Miss Ms 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Miss Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income 
tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Miss M within 90 days of the date True Potential receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes True Potential to pay 
Miss M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect True Potential to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Miss M the compensation amount as set out 
in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Miss M any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Miss M any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Miss M the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Miss M.
If Miss M accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential 
Wealth Management LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Miss M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman