DRN-3941825
The complaint
Miss S complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) unfairly registered a default which she only found out about when applying for 
a mortgage. 
Miss S is represented in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to any 
submission and comments he has made as being made by Miss S herself.
What happened
Miss S says she took out a loan with BPF, but she found out a default had been registered 
with the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) when she applied for a mortgage. She had 
been sent a default notice on 22 December 2019 asking her to pay £153 before 24 January 
2020. Miss S made a faster payment of £510 on 23 January 2020 at 8:39pm. So she 
believed she took the action required to avoid a default. Miss S made a complaint to BPF. 
BPF did not uphold Miss Ss complaint. They said the funds cleared to the account on 27 
January 2020, so as the notice required this balance to be cleared before the given date, 
she did not meet the condition of the default notice. Miss S brought her complaint to our 
service. She said she had lost out on a house purchase as a result of the default and 
therefore she wanted compensation for the associated costs of this and the default removed.
Our investigator partially upheld Miss Ss complaint. She said as Miss S didnt make the 
required payments to the loan account in October, November and December 2019, BPF 
were entitled to issue a default notice. She said currently BPF is reporting that Miss S didnt 
remedy the breach in time, but aside from the length of time it takes for them to reconcile 
their accounts, Miss S remedied the breach in time. Our investigator said that there wasnt 
enough evidence to say the default meant she couldnt get a mortgage as Miss S had 
missed multiple payments on her loan account, which also wouldve had an impact.
Miss S asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She made a number of points. In 
summary, she said BPFs final response letter contained a number of inaccuracies, the 
default was registered earlier than the date in the default notice, which rendered it invalid, 
she was told in a call on 24 January 2020 that no further actions would be taken in respect of 
the default, mortgage advisers confirmed the reason that the mortgage wasnt approved was 
because of the default. Miss S also wanted solicitors fees, estate agent fees, broker fees, 
the difference in interest rates increasing on mortgages to be compensated to her in addition 
for distress and inconvenience she suffered due to BPFs actions. She said they had acted 
unlawfully.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be 
focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Miss S has mentioned BPF acting unlawfully. But if Miss S wants a decision that BPF have 
breached any laws, then shed need to go to Court. Our service acts as an informal dispute 
resolution service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of 
individual complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant law, 
regulations and industry guidance amongst other things, make findings about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint.
Where we find it has, we make awards designed to make the business put things right with 
the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to punish a business or to make it 
change the way it acts in order to protect other customers in the future. That is the role of the 
regulator.
Ive had a look at the default notice that Miss S was sent. This states that To remedy the 
breach, you must pay the above arrears (£153) before 24/01/20. The notice goes on to say 
that If the action required by this notice is taken before the date shown no further 
enforcement action will be taken in respect of the breach. The notice also shows ways that 
Miss S can make payments. The notice is clear for her to please allow up to 5 working days 
for processing, cheques may take longer. But Miss S did not allow for five working days. It 
was less than four hours before the deadline that she made a payment.
Miss S has provided evidence that she made the payment required to pay her arrears and 
an extra amount at 8:39pm. So she did in fact take action before the deadline. This credited 
her account on 27 January 2020  after the deadline given. BPFs systems show the 
transaction date that this payment was made was 24 January 2020 and not 23 January 
2020. It is not clear why the date is different but based on the time the payment was made 
(and therefore the time it was received), its likely that any cut off period had been missed to 
show this as being reflected on 23 January 2020 by the time they received this money into 
their account as faster payments are not always instantly received by the recipient. 
The default notice letter shows for payments made over telephone/online banking to allow 
at least 7 days before your payment is due, but again, Miss S did not do this. Although 
typically a faster payment may only take up to two hours to reach a recipient, here, a 
reference number was given on the default notice, which did not match up to the reference 
on the receipt Miss S provided to us, so its likely this could be a factor in why the payment 
took longer to be credited to her actual account. 
BPF registered the default earlier than they should have done. Based on the information on 
the default letter, the default should have not been registered prior to 24 January 2020. So 
Im satisfied that the fairest thing for BPF to do here is that based on Miss S making a 
payment prior to the deadline (even though she didnt allow for the processing timescales 
they gave her) to remove the default, based on her genuinely trying to avoid a default prior to 
the deadline given. And BPF had accepted the view of our investigator to do this, which I 
was pleased to see. But we would not look to punish the business for registering the default 
a day early than they should have done as Im satisfied that BPF could have registered the 
default the following day when it appeared Miss S did not make the payment in time, and it 
hadnt cleared to her account until three days after the deadline. 
Ive considered what Miss S has said about the inaccuracies in the final response letter. 
BPFs system does show that Miss S made the payment by standing order on 24 January 
2020. And although Miss S has proved it was made by a faster payment on 23 January 
2020, Im not persuaded that they have mislead her with the information in the letter as this 
was what the system showed the complaint handler. So although Miss S has proved that it 
was made by faster payment on 23 January 2020, I cant say this information should be more than a minor frustration that Miss S would have and therefore Im not satisfied that 
compensation would be proportionate here.
Ive considered what Miss S has said about the default being the reason she was declined 
for a mortgage and therefore BPF should pay the costs she incurred here. But Im not 
persuaded that the default was the sole reason for her being declined for the mortgage. I say 
this as despite reading what the mortgage adviser/broker involved have said about this 
issue, the potential mortgage provider says Your personal credit history was assessed 
during the application, using a service provided by (a CRA) and did not meet our 
requirements. Unfortunately we're unable to discuss the credit search results with you for 
legal reasons. It also says We reviewed your application taking into account all the 
information available to us and unfortunately it does not meet our application scorecard 
requirements.
At no point is it mentioned by the mortgage provider that the sole reason for the decline was 
the default. BPF have sent us Miss Ss statement which shows on her account alone, since 
March 2017, that she had 13 occasions where a direct debit was unpaid. As she had missed 
payments which led to the default notice, then its likely that the multiple missed payments 
would have also been taken into account by the mortgage provider. And one of the Financial 
Planning Consultants that Miss S dealt with said when they called the lender as to why there 
was a decline, he was told We reviewed your application taking into account all the 
information available to us and unfortunately it does not meet our application scorecard 
requirements. So again, this does not explicitly state that the default was the sole reason for 
the decline. And therefore I cant agree to award Miss S solicitors fees, estate agent fees, 
broker fees, the difference in interest rates increasing on mortgages to be compensated as 
there has been no evidence from the mortgage provider that this is the sole reason the 
mortgage was declined.
Ive considered what Miss S has said about her being told in a call on 24 January 2020 that 
no further actions would be taken in respect of the default. So I asked BPF if they could 
provide me with the call recording. Unfortunately, this was not available due to a migration 
issue with their systems in 2020. So Im unable to rely on the call here to listen to exactly 
what was said. The notes left after the call show that Miss S had rang them up to let them 
know she made a bank transfer for £510, but it wasnt showing up yet and they informed her 
it would take 24-48 hours to update. The notes continue to say that Miss S wanted to know 
whether this would clear her balance and they confirmed that it would. But the notes show 
Miss S was informed about CRAs. So it does look like they told her about the impact this 
would have with the CRAs  although Im unable to say what exactly was discussed. But I 
do think its fair on this occasion for BPF to remove the default for the reasons Ive already 
given. So it follows Ill be asking BPF to put things right for Miss S.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that BPF stop reporting the account as defaulted on 23 January 
2020 which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance should arrange for the default they registered to be removed from Miss Ss 
credit file. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman