DRN-4232225
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC has declined to refund the money he lost in 2017 to what now 
appears to have been an investment scam. He brings his complaint with the assistance of 
professional representation, but for readability, in what follows I will refer solely to Mr B.
What happened
In 2017, Mr B invested in an unregulated property scheme (that Ill refer to as W). He made 
this investment through three Faster Payments bank transfers from his HSBC account in 
February 2017. In total these amounted to a sum of £25,000 over the course of three days.
W has since entered liquidation and Mr B has highlighted significant concerns that it may 
have been operating fraudulently.
Mr B reported what had happened to HSBC in 2022. He complained when it did not 
reimburse him. He said HSBC had breached a duty of care by failing to question him about 
the original payments and, had HSBC done so, it would have come to light the investment 
was not legitimate, and his loss would have been prevented. 
HSBC said Mr Bs payments had been invested with a legitimate company that appeared to 
have gone into administration. It did not consider Mr B had been the victim of a scam  this 
had been a failed investment. In any event, HSBC said it wasnt liable for any losses 
because Mr B had authorised the payments, and it did not have any reason to intervene or 
block Mr Bs payment requests.
Mr B referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators didnt uphold his 
complaint. The Investigator thought it likely this had been a scam, contrary to HSBCs 
position. Furthermore, she thought HSBC should have spoken to Mr B about the payments 
when hed made them, given the relatively large value. But even had HSBC done so she 
didnt think HSBC (or Mr B) would have had sufficient grounds to conclude the investment 
was not legitimate given what it could reasonably have uncovered at the time. She didnt 
think HSBC could have prevented Mr Bs loss.
Mr B maintained that had HSBC intervened it would have been able to identify several 
concerning aspects of the investment, and therefore should have warned him this was a 
scam. Had it done so, this would have stopped him from making the payments, and avoided 
the loss he has now sustained.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The starting position in law is that Mr B is responsible for transactions hes carried out 
himself. Mr B doesnt dispute that at the time, he intended to make the payments, albeit in 
the belief he was investing in a legitimate scheme.
However, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id expect HSBC to have 
been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions, as well as other indications 
that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud or scam.
I consider it to be appropriate for a customers previous account activity, among other 
factors, to be taken into account when deciding whether a payment instruction does, or does 
not, present a sufficiently heightened risk that it would justify an intervention before 
processing the transaction.
Here, HSBC did not intervene. Arguably it did not need to. While each payment was for a 
relatively large amount, HSBC has evidenced multiple similar sized payments sent from 
Mr Bs account over the course of the previous twelve months.
But even if I were to accept that HSBC ought to have intervened here and spoken to Mr B 
about one or more of the payments prior to processing it, I consider it unlikely this would 
have prevented his loss. While there are now significant concerns about the legitimacy 
of Ws business, these first began to surface in the period surrounding Ws liquidation, and 
therefore several years after Mr Bs three payments were made.
I cannot rely on the benefit of hindsight  I must consider what HSBC could reasonably have 
established in the course of proportionate enquiry to Mr B about his payments back in 
February 2017.
And with that in mind, I dont think it wouldve been apparent in 2017 that W was likely 
fraudulent rather than simply a risky investment. Im not persuaded sufficient information was 
readily and publicly available at the time which would have caused HSBC (or Mr B) specific 
concerns about this. 
Mr B has provided copies of investment literature I understand he received at the time. This 
appears professional and not obviously anything other than legitimate. It gave an 
explanation of the risks involved, recommended investors should seek independent financial 
advice prior to making an investment decision and indicated that the financial promotion had 
been approved by an FCA regulated firm. On the face of it, I dont think there was enough 
here for HSBC to have reasonably suspected W was other than it seemed.
It is possible of course that the investment might have represented a greater degree of risk 
than was suitable for Mr B to take. But HSBC didnt have any obligation to step in to protect 
its customers from potentially risky investments. Taking steps to assess suitability without an 
explicit request from Mr B (which there was not) would have gone far beyond the scope of 
what I could reasonably expect of it in any proportionate response to what, on the face of it, 
were seemingly legitimate payment requests from its customer.
In short, while Ive carefully reviewed all of Mr Bs submissions, I dont find that significant 
concerns would (or could) have been readily uncovered by either HSBC or Mr B at the 
relevant time. I can only reasonably expect any enquiries by HSBC to have been 
proportionate to the perceived level of risk. All considered, I dont think it likely that HSBC 
could have prevented these payments from being made, or otherwise caused Mr B not to proceed.
Finally, HSBC has evidenced attempts to recover Mr Bs money from the recipient bank 
account. Unfortunately, given the time that had elapsed since the payments were originally 
made, and with W in administration, no funds remained for recovery at that point. I dont find 
HSBC could have done more here.
Having carefully considered everything Mr B and HSBC have submitted, I dont find HSBC 
could have reasonably prevented Mr Bs loss here. Neither do I find it materially at fault 
otherwise. 
I appreciate this will not be the answer Mr B would like me to give, and I am sorry to have to 
disappoint him. He has lost a significant sum. But it is simply the case that I dont consider I 
can fairly and reasonably hold HSBC liable for that loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint about 
HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman