DRN-3238295
The complaint
Ms M complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) failed to provide her with 
appropriate advice about the transfer, and investment, of her pension savings.
What happened
Ms M continues to be assisted in making her complaint by a claims management company. 
But for ease, as in my provisional decision, I will generally refer to all communication as 
having been with, and from, Ms M herself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. In that decision 
I explained why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a 
copy of the provisional decision but, for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. 
In my decision I said;
Ms M held pension benefits in an occupational pension scheme (OPS). Ms M says 
that, in 2016, she got in touch with Portal for advice about whether she would be able 
to take a lump sum from her pension savings. She discussed transferring her 
pension benefits from the OPS to a personal pension. Since she was older than 
55 years at that time transferring her pension savings would allow her to immediately 
access a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free 
cash). Portal advised her against making that transfer but agreed to treat Ms M as an 
insistent client, and facilitate the transfer for her. It provided her with advice about the 
investment of her pension savings after theyd been transferred.
The transfer completed in May 2017 and the PCLS was paid to Ms M. Her remaining 
pension savings were invested in line with the advice she received from Portal in a 
Secure Income pension product provided by a third party. I will discuss the structure 
of that product later in this decision.
I think there are three matters that I need to consider here. Firstly, whether the advice 
Portal gave to Ms M about potentially transferring her pension savings from the OPS 
was suitable. I then need to think about whether it was right for Portal to treat Ms M 
as an insistent client, and facilitate the transfer of her pension benefits despite it 
being contrary to its advice. And finally, should I think Portal acted reasonably in the 
first two aspects, then to consider the advice it gave to Ms M about the investment of 
her pension savings.
I then set out the relevant regulations found in the Financial Conduct Authorities handbook 
before going on to say;
In looking at the suitability of a transfer of Ms Ms pension savings I think Portal 
gathered the necessary information from Ms M and the administrator of her OPS. It 
used that information to calculate what is known as the critical yield. In simple terms, 
that is the rate at which Ms Ms pension investments would need to grow after any 
transfer in order to replicate the benefits that she was giving up from the OPS. Portal 
estimated that for Ms M the critical yield would be 11.5%. Portal rightly concluded 
that achieving that critical yield would be unlikely, and so it couldnt recommend that 
Ms M transfer her pension savings from the OPS.
I think that was the correct recommendation in Ms Ms circumstances. She held 
valuable guaranteed benefits with the OPS. And the suitability report indicated that 
she had little else, such as alternative pensions or savings, that she could use to 
support her living costs once she had retired. By transferring her pension benefits 
and taking an immediate PCLS Ms M would suffer a significant reduction in her 
pension income once shed retired. So I dont think it would have been appropriate to 
recommend that Ms M give up her guaranteed benefits and transfer her pension 
savings to a personal pension plan.
Portal says that, once it had delivered its advice to Ms M, to not transfer her pension 
savings, she asked to be treated as an insistent client. That would mean that Ms M 
was effectively disregarding Portals advice and asking that the transfer progress 
regardless. Treating a consumer as being insistent does however place a number of 
obligations on Portal to ensure that it provides Ms M with sufficient information about 
the risks she is taking. And it is important for Portal to ensure that it hasnt acted in 
such a way that Ms M was persuaded to follow an insistent approach.
I do have a number of concerns about whether Portals actions encouraged Ms M to 
follow that approach. I think it would be helpful for me to set out my understanding of 
how the relationship between Ms M and Portal developed over time.
It seems that Ms M initiated the contact with Portal and asked whether she might be 
able to access a lump sum from her pension savings. At that time she gave Portal 
the necessary authorities and information for it to gather details of the pension 
savings that she held. Once Portal had analysed the information it gathered it wrote 
to Ms M asking her to arrange a telephone conversation and discuss its findings. In 
that letter it told Ms M that there were four options open to her following the call, but 
didnt give any indications of the suitability of each option. It said she could either;
Transfer her pension savings, take a cash lump sum, and leave the remaining 
amount invested until she needed to take a regular income from her pension
Transfer her pension savings, take a cash lump sum, and use the remaining 
savings to generate an immediate income.
Take her entire fund as a single lump sum, although it noted this would have 
tax implications and might leave Ms M with no pension income in later life.
Do nothing
Portal told Ms M that she would receive its formal recommendation after the 
telephone call. That call took place in February 2017. Portal says that on that call it 
told Ms M that its recommendation was to leave her pension savings with the OPS. 
But it says she was unhappy with that recommendation and asked to be treated as 
an insistent client. So Portal says that request was reflected in the formal report it 
issued to Ms M a few days later. And at that time Ms M was also asked to complete 
some documentation to confirm she wished to be treated as an insistent client.It seems to me that, throughout the initial stages of the process, Portal very much 
gave the impression to Ms M that its processes would simply facilitate her wish to 
take her PCLS. Doing so was indeed the opening paragraph of its letter to Ms M 
setting out her options. I dont think that early engagement is likely to have sufficiently 
set out the contrary argument  and in particular explained the regulators 
assumption that generally transfers of this nature would not be considered to be in 
the best interests of a consumer. I think that Portals actions raised an expectation for 
Ms M that she could take her PCLS  and that it might not be contrary to her best 
interests to do so.
It is my understanding that the insistent client process is in place to provide a route 
for fully informed consumers to be allowed to make their own investment decisions. 
At times consumers might wish to take approaches that are not always in their best 
financial interests.
So Ive thought carefully both about the information that Portal provided to Ms M, and 
even if it was deficient in some way, whether better information would have led to a 
different outcome.
I am persuaded that Ms M genuinely asked to be treated as an insistent client. I have 
listened to a telephone call between Portal and Ms M after its initial advice had been 
provided. On that call Portal set out in stark terms the income shortfall that Ms M was 
likely to face in retirement if she transferred her pension benefits from the OPS. On 
the call Ms M said she understood that the transfer was quite a risk to take. She 
said that she understood that but wanted her PCLS now.
And I have also seen a handwritten explanation that Ms M provided to Portal setting 
out her reasons for disregarding its advice. There Ms M said;
I still have 9 years left on my mortgage and would like to clear this. It is my 
money that I feel I would benefit from greatly having it now. I would like to 
access this as soon as possible please. I have 38 years of paying into my 
pension fund and the time is now for me to start living and doing the things 
I dont want to wait for.
As I have explained earlier, I do think that Portals process meant there was a risk 
that Ms M was making her decision with insufficient information. And I think that is 
what Ms M means when she describes the process as being not best practice. 
I think it would have been helpful for Portal to set out its initial analysis of the transfer 
in written form so that Ms M could consider it in her own time rather than during a 
time limited phone call.
But Im not persuaded that would have made any difference. Ms M approached 
Portal with a view to taking her PCLS immediately. And even when Portal clearly 
explained the shortfall she would face in her retirement income, she decided to carry 
on regardless. I think that the short-term benefits of taking the PCLS were sufficiently 
persuasive that Ms Ms decision was already made. So I dont think Portal was wrong 
to treat Ms M as an insistent client and facilitate the transfer for her.
After it agreed to treat Ms M as an insistent client Portal then provided her with its 
recommendation as to how she should invest her remaining pension savings. Portals 
advice was that Ms M should make use of a third-party secure income pension 
product. In broad terms that product guaranteed a level of income to Ms M at 
retirement, and that her guaranteed income would grow up to retirement by at least 3% per annum. And, if Ms Ms pension investments performed more strongly, that 
additional growth could be used to purchase additional pension income at retirement.
But of course those guarantees came at a cost. Ms M would need to pay an annual 
product charge of 0.6%, a fund management charge of 0.55% and a charge for the 
guarantee of 0.65% So in total the charges that Ms M would need to pay the pension 
provider each year amounted to 1.8%. That would have the effect of reducing any 
likely investment returns that she might use to enhance her income at retirement. 
And any capital withdrawals that Ms M might choose to take would proportionately 
reduce the level of guaranteed income that she could receive.
When Portal discussed the transfer with Ms M it assessed her as having a 
moderately cautious attitude to risk. I think that fairly represents the importance of 
these pension savings to Ms M in the future. So that was something that Portal 
needed to bear in mind when making its recommendation to Ms M.
Portal didnt recommend that Ms M should transfer from the OPS because of the 
valuable guarantees she was giving up. As I said earlier, Ms M doesnt appear to 
have other sources of income that she could rely on in her retirement. So I dont think 
it was unreasonable that Portal sought to provide her with a degree of security 
around the income she would receive from her remaining pension savings.
The secure income product it recommended did carry a relatively heavy cost in terms 
of the charges that Ms M would need to pay. But, Ms M accepted Portals 
recommendation and was given clear information, on a number of occasions, about 
the level of income she might expect in retirement. I dont think that the 
recommendation from Portal was such that I should consider it unreasonable. And 
I note that, although my focus here is on the suitability of the original advice rather 
than subsequent performance of the investment, at the time Portal provided its 
business file to us, the overall performance of the guaranteed capital value of Ms Ms 
pension savings doesnt appear to have been unreasonable.
So on balance I dont think that the recommendation that Portal gave to Ms M for the 
investment of her remaining pension savings was unreasonable. I think that it fairly 
reflected Ms Ms attitude to risk and her capacity for loss with these pension savings. 
I think that the cost of the product reasonably reflected the guarantees it provided in 
terms of the future income that would be available to Ms M.
In summary I think that the advice Portal provided to Ms M was reasonable. And 
I dont think Portal was wrong to treat Ms M as an insistent client and facilitate the 
transfer for her despite it being contrary to its initial recommendation. So I dont 
currently think the complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Portal has said that it has nothing further to add. Ms Ms CMC has 
provided us some further comments. Although I am only summarising that response here, 
I want to reassure the CMC, and Ms M, that I have read and carefully considered the 
comments in their entirety.
Ms M has said that Portal failed to recommend any other alternative method of raising the 
money that she wanted to access. She says she had no previous investment experience and 
so relied on the advice that was provided by Portal. Ms M says that Portal did not take her 
through a detailed questionnaire to establish her risk rating. And she says that, in line with 
my findings, Portals insistent client process is flawed. She says Portal encouraged her to 
make the transfer by facilitating it.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to tell Ms M that the additional comments Ive been sent have not caused me to 
consider that my provisional findings should be altered. So I wont be upholding her 
complaint. But I would like to provide some further thoughts on the points she has raised.
The suitability report that she was given by Portal did consider alternative means of raising 
the funds that she wished to take as a PCLS. I think it should be remembered that Portals 
advice was not to use the PCLS  or transfer the pension savings from the OPS. So it was 
Ms Ms own decision to proceed in that manner. But despite making that comment the report 
also shows that other alternatives were discussed with, and discounted by, Ms M.
Portals report says that it suggested Ms M could raise the funds she required by taking a 
personal loan, by remortgaging her home, or by selling some of her existing assets. It also 
noted that she didnt have sufficient disposable income to take that funding approach 
instead. So Portal concluded that it wasnt able to recommend any approach to achieve 
Ms Ms stated objectives. 
Portals records show that it completed a comprehensive assessment to identify Ms Ms 
attitude to risk. As I said in my provisional decision that suggested that Ms M had a 
moderately cautious attitude to risk. I think that was a reasonable assessment given what 
I know of Ms Ms circumstances at the time.
Whilst I do have concerns over the insistent client approach that Portal followed, I dont think 
it led Ms M to make a decision that she wouldnt have reached had the process been better. 
I think that shed already decided to transfer her pension savings from the OPS to allow her 
to take the PCLS. And that was the reason she disregarded the advice given by Portal.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Portal Financial Services LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman