DRN-2341163
The complaint
Mr H complains Vanquis Bank Limited approved him for a credit card that was unaffordable.  
He also complains Vanquis later further increased his credit limit without asking him. He 
says this put him in financial difficulty.
What happened
In September 2015 Mr H applied for a credit card online with Vanquis. This was approved 
with a credit limit of £150.
Vanquis said they contacted Mr H in October 2016 to tell him they were planning to increase 
his credit limit. Around December 2016, Mr Hs credit limit was increased to £550.
Mr H is unhappy he was approved for a card he says he simply couldnt afford based on his 
credit history, He says he quickly came up against his credit limit and struggled to make 
payments  and Vanquis made this worse when they increased his credit limit.
Vanquis didnt agree they acted irresponsibly in providing Mr H with the card or increasing 
the credit limit.
Mr H was unhappy with Vanquis response. He brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend we uphold Mr Hs complaint. Based on the information 
available she didnt think Vanquis acted irresponsibly by providing the credit card or 
increasing his credit limit in 2016.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator and ask for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So the complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Before lending to Mr H, Id expect to see Vanquis carried out appropriate checks to 
make sure Mr H could reasonably afford the repayments. These checks should take 
into account things such as the repayment amount and Mr Hs income
Mr H made the initial application for the credit card in September 2015. As Mr H was 
a new customer to Vanquis, Id reasonably have expected for Vanquis to have 
checked Mr Hs monthly income - and I can see they did do this. Vanquis also 
provided credit search information from the application and I havent seen anything 
from this or from what both sides have provided, that persuades me Vanquis 
shouldve carried out further checks before provided the card to Mr H
Vanquis increased Mr Hs credit limit around December 2016. Mr H had been a 
customer for over a year and had always met his repayments  and Vanquis said 
they relied on internal credit data to assess his suitability. However, the credit limit 
was increased from £150 to £550, which is quite a significant increase. So I think it 
would have been reasonable for Vanquis to carry out further checks and verify 
Mr Hs income and expenditure
Mr H hasnt been able to provide us with bank statements or a copy of his credit file, 
so this means Im unable to confirm what hes said about his financial position around 
the time the credit limit was increased  and so I cant fairly conclude that more 
detailed checks wouldve led Vanquis to believe Mr H wasnt likely to able to 
sustainably meet the repayments on the card
Vanquis said they contacted Mr H in October 2016 to inform him they were going to 
increase his credit limit. Ive seen screen shots from Vanquis system showing the 
notice was sent and Ive seen a template of what wouldve been sent to Mr H at the 
time. I can see it gave Mr H 30 days to reject the increase if he didnt want his limit to 
change. So although Mr H said he never received the notice, Im persuaded it was 
sent
The limit increase showed on Mr Hs December 2016 statement  and he then began 
to use it. Mr H raised a separate complaint around March 2017 about charges on his 
account and going over his limit, but I cant see he raised any queries or issues about 
the limit being increased. So, although Mr H said he didnt receive the notification, Im 
not persuaded this wouldve meant he wouldve rejected the limit increase anyway
So for the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman