DRN-2667574
Complaint
Miss M is unhappy with the way Amigo Loans Limited (Amigo) put things right after it 
upheld her complaint about it irresponsibly providing her with a guarantor loan. Shes 
unhappy with the way it has treated the payments made by her guarantor.
  
Background
Miss M complained that Amigo irresponsibly provided her with guarantor loans in                
March 2015 and August 2017. Amigo accepted that it shouldnt have provided Miss M with 
the second of the loans. In order to put things right, Amigo said it would refund all the 
interest paid, plus interest at 8% per year simple. It also terminated the guarantee and 
indemnity agreement it had with Miss Ms guarantor, refunded the payments he made and 
added an amount equivalent to this refund back on to Miss Ms account.  
Miss M accepted the outcome on loan 1. And while she agreed with the decision to uphold 
the complaint about loan 2, she was unhappy Amigo had added an amount equivalent to 
what it refunded to the guarantor to her loan balance. In order words, Miss M was unhappy 
that she was being asked to pay the amount refunded to her guarantor. She was also 
unhappy with some of Amigos actions when she ran into difficulties making her payments. 
Miss Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He concluded Amigo hadnt 
unfairly taken Miss Ms guarantors payments into account when putting things right for     
Miss M. But he did think Amigo needed to pay Miss M £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience some of its communications, while Miss M was explaining that she was 
unable to make payments, caused. Amigo eventually agreed with our investigators 
assessment but Miss M didnt. 
As the parties werent able to agree on how Amigo should put things right for loan 2, the 
case was referred to an ombudsman for a formal decision on this matter. 
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending  
including what we expect to be done where we say a lender did something wrong or it 
agrees this is the case - on our website. And Ive considered this approach when deciding 
Miss Ms complaint. 
Both Miss M and Amigo are in agreement over which loans Miss M was fairly and unfairly 
provided with. So I dont need to look into whether loan 2 was affordable. I simply need 
decide whether or not what Amigo has offered to do to put things right is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. Having carefully thought about everything provided, I think that 
Amigo has put things right for having unfairly provided loan 2 in a fair and reasonable way. 
Id explain why I consider this to be the case in a bit more detail.
At this point it might help for me to explain that when a business accepts (or we decide) it 
shouldnt have given a loan to a consumer, wed typically expect it to put the borrower in the 
position theyd be in now if they hadnt had to pay any interest and charges on that loan. A 
business will usually refund the interest and charges added to the loan  and also add 8% 
simple interest per year where the borrower paid the interest and charges.
Miss Ms loan had interest applied on a daily basis. So Amigo refunded all the interest paid 
and added interest at 8% simple a year. It then used the amount of this refund to reduce the 
outstanding balance on Miss Ms loan. This is a routine starting point for calculating any loss 
a borrower might have suffered as a result of unfairly having been provided with a guarantor 
loan and as I understand it, Miss M is satisfied with this part of what Amigo has done.   
Amigo also removed Miss Ms guarantor from the loan and also refunded the payments he 
made. Once it reduced the balance on Miss Ms loan by the amount of the interest refund it 
calculated, it then added an amount to reflect the payments (not including any interest) it 
refunded to Miss Ms guarantor. This meant that while Miss Ms balance did end up reducing 
as a result of her successful complaint, it didnt reduce by as much as she had hoped.        
I can understand why Miss M feels its unfair for Amigo to once again add amounts she 
believed to have been repaid back to her balance. I know shes especially unhappy because 
she believes that these payments were taken in circumstances where she asked Amigo to 
work with her instead of seeking payments from her guarantor. Ive given a lot of thought to 
what Miss M has told us. But Im required to decide what I think is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this case. 
Miss Ms other creditors may have accepted reduced payments from her and agreed to a 
debt management plan. But Amigo wasnt in the same position as Miss Ms other creditors 
because it had a separate guarantee and indemnity agreement in place with Miss Ms 
guarantor. So I dont think Amigo not agreeing to the same course of action as Miss Ms 
other creditors was in itself unfair, as it didnt have the same agreement as Miss Ms other 
creditors.
Furthermore, the nature of the guarantor loan product itself means that whenever a borrower 
isnt, for whatever reason, making payments to their loan, the lender also has to bear in mind 
the interests of the guarantor, as well as those of the borrower. So Amigo was required to 
treat Miss Ms guarantor fairly and reasonably and it also had an obligation to keep him 
informed of any arrears on the account bearing in mind he could be responsible for them. In 
these circumstances, I think it would be unfair to allow a substantial amount of arrears to 
build up before a lender contacts a guarantor to start requesting payments. 
 
Ive also looked at the correspondence between Miss M and Amigo. And I cant see that 
Amigo ever demanded payments, for amounts Miss M wasnt able to afford, once Miss M 
said she was having difficulty making payments. I can understand why Miss M might have 
felt that this is what was happening because Amigo said it would recover any difference 
between any payments she could make and what was due, from her guarantor. 
But bearing in mind what Ive already said about Amigos obligations to Miss Ms guarantor 
and the guarantee and indemnity agreement entitling it to recover any shortfall, I dont think 
Amigos actions were unfair. And as this is this is the case, I dont think that Amigos decision 
to collect payments from Miss Ms guarantor, in itself, means it is unfair to now add any 
refunded payments back onto Miss Ms account.       
Amigo accepted it didnt meet its obligations to Miss M by failing to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks in order to establish whether Miss M could make the repayments to her 
loan. And Amigos failure to carry out such checks also meant it didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Miss Ms guarantor and also failed to meet its obligations to him, as he 
was reasonably entitled to rely on it having met its obligations to assess the loan was 
affordable for Miss M before it accepted him as a guarantor. 
Bearing this in mind, I dont think it was unreasonable for Amigo to have offered Miss Ms 
guarantor a refund of the payments he made when it upheld Miss Ms complaint and was 
working out how to put things right. Amigo was putting things right for providing a loan it 
shouldnt have and it while doing so it was checking with the guarantor whether he wished to 
claim funds he was entitled to reclaim bearing in mind Miss Ms successful complaint. 
As I understand it, Miss Ms guarantor has accepted a refund of the payments he made and 
this is why Amigo has reworked Miss Ms account to reflect this. Amigo hasnt added any 
additional interest as a result of this and has also limited Miss Ms total liability to the amount 
she was originally lent. And most importantly of all it has now agreed for the outstanding 
balance to be added to Miss Ms debt management plan, which is what Miss M wanted when 
she first contacted her debt management company. So I dont think Miss M is now in a 
worse position than she was originally as a result of having had a complaint upheld.
Miss M might well have expected more as a result of having had a complaint upheld. I am 
sympathetic to the arguments shes made and I can understand why she might feel 
disappointed in these circumstances. But Miss Ms account now reflects the payments she 
made. She now simply owes the remaining unpaid funds lent and Amigo has agreed to 
formally add the account to her debt management plan and accept payments her debt 
management company has deemed to have been affordable.  
Ive also thought about what Miss M has said about what the position might have been had 
her loan been fully repaid before she complained. It is fair to say that a lender would face 
some practical difficulties reclaiming a refund, made to a guarantor, from the borrower once 
a loan has been repaid and the associated agreement terminated. 
Id be unlikely to find that a lender unilaterally reopening a closed loan account just so it 
could recover compensation it paid to a third party, for what it did wrong, was fair and 
reasonable. Although that would be a decision I, or any other ombudsman for that matter, 
would have to take based on the arguments made and the particular circumstances of the 
case in question. 
In any event, the truth is I dont know how Amigo might have offered to put things right for 
Miss M in the circumstances shes described. All I do know is how Amigo has put things right 
here and the outcome reached bearing in mind the circumstances and balance of her 
account at the time Miss M did complain. 
For the reasons Ive already set out above, I dont think what Amigo here has done is unfair 
or unreasonable. Equally as all parties are now in agreement that Amigo should pay Miss M 
£150 for any distress and inconvenience its correspondence may have caused, Im satisfied 
that Amigo has offered to put things right in a way thats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ms case.
So overall and having carefully considered everything, Amigo now needs to pay Miss M 
£150 in compensation. But other than agreeing for the balance on Miss Ms loan to be added 
to her debt management plan, it doesnt need to take any further action in relation to balance 
Miss M owes.      
  
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Amigo Loans Limited 
needs to pay Miss M £150 in compensation, contact Miss Ms debt management company 
and arrange for the remaining balance on her loan to be formally added to her debt 
management plan.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman