DRN-3381591
The complaint
Mr F says Tesco Personal Finance PLC lent to him irresponsibly when increasing the limit 
on his credit card in 2016 and 2018. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the scope of this complaint doesnt include what happened 
before 2016.
What happened
Mr F opened a Tesco credit card account in 2002. Tesco provided the card with a limit of 
£3,750 initially and increased the credit limit to £4,750 and £5,700 in 2003, to £8,700 in 
November 2016 and finally to £9,700 in February 2018.  
In 2021 Mr F complained to Tesco. He said it had lent to him irresponsibly when it increased 
the credit limit on the account. He felt Tesco was responsible for him falling into debt. 
Tesco responded that the credit limit increases in 2016 and 2018 were approved subject to a 
full review of his account history and how hed managed the account previously. It 
acknowledged that Mr F had instructed Tesco to only collect the minimum monthly payment 
from August 2016 but said this wouldnt have made him ineligible for the credit limit 
increases that were made. Tesco didnt uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with Tescos response, Mr F complained to us. Our investigator looked into the 
complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. They believed Tesco shouldnt have 
offered Mr F the credit limit increases in 2016 and 2018. Thats because it didnt carry out 
proper checks regarding his ability to sustainably repay the credit and, if it had, Tesco would 
have discovered the lending was unaffordable for him. The investigator said that, to put 
things right for Mr F, Tesco should pay him the interest, charges and fees incurred from the 
start of the credit, and add 8% simple interest a year on any positive balance that left him 
with. They said that any adverse information recorded with any credit reference agencies in 
relation to the interest and charges should be removed and a plan put in put in place to allow 
Mr F to repay any outstanding balance in an affordable and sustainable way. 
Mr F accepted the investigators findings. But Tesco didnt, saying in summary it had carried 
out appropriate credit checks and so hadnt lent irresponsibly. As a result, the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Mr Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Tesco treated Mr F 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the credit card. These include:
1) Did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did Tesco make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did Tesco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill consider each of these in turn.
Did Tesco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F would be 
able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way? 
The rules that Tesco had to follow in 2016 and 2018 required it to carry out checks that 
would enable it to reasonably assess whether Mr F could afford to repay the credit being 
offered. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks Tesco needed to carry out, but they did set out 
that those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think 
what this meant in practice was that the scope and extent of Tescos checks needed to 
reflect the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the 
interest rate, the monthly and total amounts repayable, and any indications of customer 
vulnerability.  
The checks Tesco needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the credit back would cause Mr F any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for him. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the interest rate being charged. 
This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And, as a result of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be 
more thorough if Mr F had a low income. This would reflect that it could be more difficult for 
him to meet the credit card repayments with a low income. 
Tesco would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts he had to repay, as it 
would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on his income. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether Tesco completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr F would be able to repay his credit card in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the credit limit increase in November 2016 included 
the following:
The increase was instigated by Tesco rather than by Mr F.
It followed an unsuccessful application by Mr F to have the limit increased  just a few 
months before in June 2016  on the basis that his stated income at that time was zero. 
Mr F was recorded by Tesco as having a net monthly income in November 2016 of 
£2,711. The credit limit was to increase from £5,700 to £8,700 and was relatively high when 
compared with Tescos records of Mr Fs earnings (although Ill return to the issue of his 
actual earnings later). 
When Tesco made its lending decision, it says it fully reviewed Mr Fs account history and 
how hed managed his payments previously. Although Mr F declared his earnings to Tesco 
in June 2016, it says it retained no records of that credit limit application. Instead, Tesco 
says it also used a credit reporting agency (CRA) to verify his income.
I can understand if Tesco didnt retain records from June 2016 as the application was 
unsuccessful. Given how long it had been since Tesco had recorded his income when he 
first applied for the credit card, I think it could have done more to ascertain the then current 
figure than simply rely on the findings of a CRA. I cant see why Tesco couldnt, for example, 
have asked Mr F about his income directly for corroboration. 
In terms of how Mr F was managing his credit card with the existing limit of £5,700, I note he 
changed his direct debit instruction from paying the full balance each month to making the 
minimum repayment. The change was made in August 2016  just three months before 
Tesco increased the credit limit by £3,000. I think this was at least suggestive of a change in 
his circumstances and warranted further enquiries before such a large increase of the credit 
limit was made.
In addition, the checks Tesco carried out also showed Mr F had total unsecured debt of 
more than £5,500. That was a considerable sum based on the information it held and more 
than double what the CRA considered to be his net monthly income. 
I think all of this should have put Tesco on notice that more borrower focussed checks would 
have been appropriate in the circumstances. This is especially so considering Tesco wasnt 
fully aware of what Mr Fs net income was at that time. 
Bearing all of this in mind I dont believe the checks Tesco carried out when it increased the 
credit limit were, on balance, reasonable and proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
I think Tesco should have ensured that the scope and extent of its checks were adapted to 
the circumstances of its offer to Mr F. A credit limit increase of £3,000 represented a 
relatively substantial extra financial burden for him. Given this, further checks would, in my 
opinion, have needed to verify his income. These would have been in addition to the checks 
Tesco carried out to establish that he could afford the credit. 
As Ive said, Tescos confident that it was reasonable to rely on the evidence from the CRA it 
instructed in working out Mr Fs income in 2016. Mr F, on the other hand, says his actual 
income was a fraction of the £32,000 a year he was earning until he was made redundant in 
2006. Tesco doubted that was the case given the information it had obtained. 
I dont think theres any need to go back to what happened as far back as 2006, but I did ask 
Mr F  through one of our investigators  to provide evidence of his income in the months 
leading up to the credit limit increase in November 2016.
To that end, Mr Fs provided copy bank statements from March 2016 to January 2017. There 
are some gaps, unsurprisingly, but what we have essentially shows that he probably wasnt 
in receipt of income from paid work. Instead I can see that relatively small amounts were sporadically paid into his current account, which he says were largely from the proceeds of 
the sale of jewellery and the like. Looking at the payment types and details on the 
statements, Im satisfied thats likely to be the case.
Its worth emphasising that Tesco was seeking to increase the limit on Mr Fs credit card by 
£3,000, from £5,700 to £8,700. Such a high level of credit when taking account of Mr Fs 
greatly diminished income would have been a cause for significant concern in itself. But we 
know Mr F had already gone from paying his credit card repayments in full to paying only the 
minimum repayment just months before Tescos lending decision. 
I think these were signs that Mr F was struggling financially by November 2016.
Did Tesco make a fair lending decision?  
That Mr Fs income was, at best, significantly reduced in the years leading up to the 
decisions, hed recently changed from paying his credit card balance in full to making only 
the minimum repayment, and had a significant level of unsecured debt, all indicate to me 
that he was struggling financially or at least might be. 
I believe the indications are that borrower focussed checks by Tesco would have highlighted 
that Mr Fs financial situation was such that the credit he was offered was unlikely to be 
sustainably affordable for him.
For these reasons, I think that Tesco should have realised in the circumstances that it was 
unlikely Mr F would have been able to cope with the additional credit it was offering and that 
it wasnt appropriate to lend to him. By extension, its likely that Tesco shouldnt have agreed 
to the further increase to the credit limit in 2018.
 
Putting things right
Tesco should put things right for Mr F in relation to the credit limit increase on the credit card 
in November 2016 (and, by extension, the subsequent credit limit increase in 2018), albeit 
hes had the benefit of the money borrowed and so may need to repay the principal amount. 
If theres still an outstanding balance due on Mr Fs credit card and Tescos transferred the 
debt to a third party, then Tesco should buy back the debt if it can. Whether or not Tesco can 
buy back the debt, it should achieve the following: 
Rework the account to ensure that, from November 2016, interest is only charged on 
the first £5,700 outstanding  to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases 
should have been provided.
If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made, Tesco 
should contact Mr F to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this.
If no outstanding balance remains, any adverse information should be removed from 
the credit file. 
And
 
If the refund means theres no remaining balance, any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mr F. 
And
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement. HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC to put things right for Mr F as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman