DRN-3407808
The complaint
Solicitors acting on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs S complain Barclays Bank UK PLC 
mis-handled instructions regarding Mrs Ss current account following her death.
What happened
Following Mrs Ss death in late 2019, solicitors acting on behalf of her estate wrote to 
Barclays to request that the account be frozen. The estate said it told Barclays this in April 
2020, although Barclays said it wasnt made aware of her death until July 2020.
Setting aside the issue of when Barclays was made aware of Mrs Ss death, the estate 
noticed from bank statements that payments had been received into the account and that 
direct debits had been paid from the account beyond April and July 2020 and as late as April 
2021. April 2021 is when Barclays received a copy of grant of probate and was able to close 
the account. The estate wanted compensation for the payments that continued to be made 
and for the additional costs it says it incurred in having to raise a complaint about the 
account not being frozen.
We contacted Barclays once the estate complained to us, at which point Barclays accepted 
it had incorrectly confirmed to the estate on two occasions that no payments had debited the 
account after July 2020 when in fact they had. Barclays apologised for not properly 
investigating the complaint and offered to reimburse the estate for the total amount debited 
from the account in error between July 2020 and April 2021 (£120). Barclays also said it 
couldnt have stopped the payments made into the account from being received and 
suggested the estate take the matter up with the payer given the estate now held the 
amounts paid as part of the final settlement of the account. 
Finally, Barclays agreed in principle to consider covering the estates additional solicitors 
costs in complaining, subject to receipt of a full breakdown of those costs together with an 
explanation as to why they were incurred.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Barclayss offer was fair in the 
circumstances. They felt its offer to reimburse the direct debits paid out of the account from 
July 2020 to April 2021 was reasonable given they believed the account should have been 
frozen during that period. And that it was reasonable for the estate to contact the payer of 
the payments into the account given the estate had benefitted from those payments. 
Regarding additional costs, the investigator thought Barclayss offer to consider payment of 
them to be more than fair and asked that the estate liaise with Barclays direct on the matter. 
The estate didnt agree with the investigators findings. Among other things, it said the 
investigator hadnt addressed Barclayss failure to deal with the initial complaint or recognise 
that the estate was forced into incurring additional costs as a result. The estate said it was 
unreasonable to expect solicitors acting on its behalf to have the necessary details to contact 
third parties seeking to make payments into the account when it ought to have been able to 
rely on Barclays freezing the account as expected.   
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh and reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Barclays didnt freeze Mrs Ss account as it should have or that her 
estate suffered financial loss as a result. 
To be able to quantify the estates losses, the first issue Ive considered is when Barclays 
reasonably ought to have frozen the account. The estate says it contacted Barclays about 
Mrs Ss death  and provided a copy death certificate  in April 2020 and thats when it 
should have frozen the account. Barclays, on the other hand, says it wasnt notified until July 
2021 and that it couldnt have frozen the account until then at the earliest.
The estates provided a copy of a letter it says was sent to Barclays on 14 April 2020. The 
letter says a certified copy of Mrs Ss death certificate was enclosed. Ive reviewed 
Barclayss internal records and can see no reference to its receipt of that letter around the 
time in question. Unfortunately, the letter wasnt sent by recorded delivery so theres no 
third-party evidence to show it was received either. As such, I cant see any evidence 
showing Barclays did receive it. 
Im also conscious of the fact that the certificate apparently wasnt certified as a true copy of 
the original by the estates solicitors until after the date of the letter. If the date recorded on 
the certificate by the solicitors is correct, I cant see how it could have been enclosed with 
the letter that was apparently sent around a week before.
It could be that one of those dates is incorrect, or even that they both are. Either way, I think 
this casts some doubt on when, or even whether, the letter was sent and on whether the 
certificate was enclosed with it.   
As far as Im aware, the estate didnt contact Barclays again for its response until July 2020, 
which is when it sent an email apparently attaching a copy of the letter of April 2020 and of 
the death certificate. This is the point at which Barclays accepts it first became aware of 
Mrs Ss death. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think it was unfair for Barclays to rely on the estates 
chaser email of July 2020 as notification of death. I havent seen enough evidence to find 
that it became, or ought to have become, aware before that time. 
That said, Barclays didnt act to stop direct debits being collected from the account until April 
2021, when it closed the account, despite as I say having become aware of Mrs Ss death in 
July 2020. Its not clear exactly what stopped that from happening, but I cant see that this 
had anything to do with the estate or the information it had provided. As such, I think 
Barclayss offer to reimburse the estate for the direct debits collected in that period was fair 
as they wouldnt have been collected had the account been frozen as it should have been. 
Between July 2020 and April 2021 money was also paid into the account. The estate 
believes that shouldnt have been allowed to happen either, on the ground that the account 
should have been frozen. Whether or not these incoming payments should have been 
blocked by Barclays, it remains that they were made. It seems that these sums were then included as part of the final settlement payment that was made to the estate once the 
account was closed in April 2021. 
That being the case, I dont believe the estates shown that its lost out due to those 
payments being made into the account. It follows that I dont believe any compensations 
due for the fact that those payments were made, irrespective of whether Barclays was at 
fault for them being made in the first place.
Finally, I understand the estates comments about Barclayss handling of the complaint. I 
agree it could have handled the matter better than it did and that the estate was likely 
inconvenienced to some extent as a result. But I also note that Barclays eventually 
recognised its shortcomings, apologised for its errors, and offered to put things right. I think 
this was sufficient and that no further compensations due in the circumstances. 
Barclays has gone further and offered to consider covering additional solicitors costs 
incurred by the estate in relation to this matter. Thats subject to its receipt of further 
information about those costs, why they were incurred, and a detailed breakdown of them.
In terms of my view on this point, Ive stopped short of making an award against Barclays for 
those costs. Thats because I believe there was no requirement for the estate to instruct 
solicitors in making the complaint to Barclays, or ultimately to us. The estate could have 
complained without representation and for free. I understand why the estate might have 
chosen to use the services of the solicitors given they were already acting on behalf of the 
estate in dealing with the account. But that doesnt mean such representation was necessary 
or that I think Barclays should reimburse any related costs. 
This is not to say that Barclays cant still consider paying the costs voluntarily as its offered 
to, although the estate should take this up with Barclays separately.
Putting things right
Barclays should reimburse the amounts paid from the account in direct debits between July 
2020 and April 2021, when the account was closed.
Barclays has voluntarily offered to consider payment of the estates additional costs in 
making the complaint  subject to it receiving more information about them. I think that 
offers more than fair in the circumstances and ask that the estate contact Barclays about 
that direct.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I require Barclays Bank 
UK PLC to put things right as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman