DRN-4118690
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money they lost when they were 
victims of a scam. 
Mr and Mrs K are represented by a firm that Ill refer to as E.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
On 6 January 2017 Mr and Mrs K transferred £10,000 to a firm Ill refer to as W to invest in 
a five-year bond. Mr and Mrs K received returns on the investment every six months 
between July 2017 and July 2019, which totalled £1,595.54. No further payments were made 
to Mr and Mrs K and W subsequently went into liquidation.
E complained to Lloyds, on Mr and Mrs Ks behalf, in November 2022 saying this payment 
was made as part of an investment scam. And, as they considered Lloyds failed in their duty 
of care to protect Mr and Mrs K from it, they thought Lloyds should refund Mr and Mrs K the 
investment sum theyd lost plus 8% interest. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint as theyd found no bank error. In short, they said:
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code didnt apply. This was because 
the payment was made to a genuine company, which failed, and so it wasnt a scam.
Mr and Mrs K researched W online and found them on Companies House. They 
came recommended from a broker and appeared to be genuine and professional. 
The returns offered werent unreasonable  with £1,595.54 paid over two and half 
years. 
They reviewed the payment in line with Mr and Mrs Ks previous account behaviour 
and it was in line with their usual pattern of transactions. They didnt therefore have 
reason to intervene. 
Sending money by Faster Payment is like sending cash and so, once processed, it 
cannot be cancelled or reversed. They were unfortunately unable to recover any 
funds from this investment. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but she didnt think Lloyds had to do anything 
further. She said she didnt think the payment wouldve been particularly unusual or 
suspicious in appearance to Lloyds considering Mr and Mrs Ks normal account and 
payment activity. So, she wouldnt have expected Lloyds to have intervened before releasing 
the payment.
E disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, they said:
They referred to the Quincecare duty and that the payment from Mr and Mrs Ks bank 
account was of a significant value. As such, it shouldve been identified by Lloyds as 
unusual  thereby prompting the bank to intervene by contacting Mr and Mrs K. 
Although Lloyds couldnt provide financial advice to Mr and Mrs K, they were able to 
provide warnings and question the information they received. This wouldve led to the 
bank becoming aware Mr and Mrs K had been cold called about the investment 
opportunity  which isnt allowed. And that the person offering it wasnt qualified or 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to provide such advice. Further, Lloyds 
wouldve been aware such bonds ought to have only been promoted to high-net-
worth individuals or sophisticated investors, which Mr and Mrs K werent.
Had Mr and Mrs K been warned there was even a moderate risk of losing all the 
money, they wouldnt have proceeded with making the payment. 
Mr and Mrs K were vulnerable at the time of the investment as they were over 65 
years of age and retired. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Mr and Mrs K have lost a significant sum of money and I want to assure them that I 
dont underestimate the impact this has had on them. But, while I know this isnt the outcome 
Mr and Mrs K will be hoping for, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly by not refunding their 
loss for similar reasons to our Investigator. Ill explain why.
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. But the CRM code didnt come into effect 
until 28 May 2019 and doesnt apply retrospectively. This means, as Mr and Mrs Ks 
payment was made before this, theyre not covered under the CRM code. Ive therefore 
considered whether Lloyds should reimburse Mr and Mrs K under any of their other 
obligations
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises them to make. It isnt disputed that 
Mr and Mrs K knowingly made the payment from their Lloyds account and so, Im satisfied 
they authorised it. Therefore, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms 
of their account, Lloyds are expected to process the payment and Mr and Mrs K are 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for Lloyds to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instruction given by Mr and Mrs K to Lloyds was 
unusual in relation to their typical account activity.
Having reviewed Mr and Mrs Ks account statements, Ive seen that they made numerous 
transactions ranging between £10,000 and £30,000 in June and July 2016  with, at times, 
more than one transaction on a single day. After this, and before the payment to W, there were further transactions of around £4,000 to £5,000 made. Because of this, I dont think the 
£10,000 payment was unusual in relation to Mr and Mrs Ks typical account activity. The 
payment also didnt clear the account balance, which can be an indicator of fraud, as it 
remained in credit by more than £21,000. I therefore dont think Lloyds wouldve had reason 
to consider the payment as suspicious or out of character, thereby prompting them to 
intervene before processing it. 
Ive noted that E has referred to Mr and Mrs K being vulnerable at the time of the payment 
due to their age and being retired. Lloyds however are only expected to intervene where 
there is a reasonable belief that their customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud. And so, 
while Ive considered this, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ks age or retired status alone wouldve 
given Lloyds sufficient reason to think this  particularly, as Ive explained, as the payment 
was in line with their typical account activity. So, taking all of this into consideration, I dont 
think Lloyds ought to have done more before following the instructions Mr and Mrs K gave.
E has made reference to what wouldve happened if Lloyds had intervened and contacted 
Mr and Mrs K. As Ive concluded it was reasonable for Lloyds to follow Mr and Mrs Ks 
instructions without carrying out any additional checks, I dont feel it necessary to consider 
these points. 
On a final note, Im aware that Lloyds were unfortunately unable to recover Mr and Ks 
funds. This however is unsurprising given W went into liquidation. So, I dont think Lloyds 
can reasonably be held responsible because of this. 
Im sorry to hear Mr and Mrs K have suffered a significant financial loss as result of what 
happened. But it would only be fair for me to direct Lloyds to refund their loss if I thought the 
bank was responsible  and Im not persuaded that this was the case. For the above 
reasons, I think Lloyds has acted fairly and so Im not going to tell them to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman