DRN-2852844
The complaint
Miss S complains that Black Horse Limited failed to compensate her properly for a faulty car.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Black Horse is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
The car was some three and a half years old and had covered 25,582 miles. While one 
would not expect it to be free from some wear and tear defect the level of faulty parts was 
quite significant. I gather Miss S believed it had undergone a pre-sale inspection and it is 
surprising that some of these basic issues were present. She took it back for repair within a 
few days of acquisition and a total of six times in the first eight months.
She also had the car tested by a third-party garage following the engine management 
warning light coming on. This took two weeks for an appointment to become available and 
Miss S says that she didnt use the car during this period due to her concerns about its 
safety particularly when carrying her children.
When the car was inspected by the independent engineer the faults had been repaired, 
however further issues arose and Miss S traded the car in for another one making a 
significant loss. Black Horse offered Miss S £200 compensation to reflect the repairs 
required shorty after acquisition and the trouble and upset.
The further issues included an intermittent fault with the child safety locks and the car going 
into limp mode. I acknowledged that she managed to cover some 15,000 miles in some 18 
months, but for a period she didnt use the car and was without a courtesy vehicle. 
I believe a refund of five weeks payments is reasonable and a further £250 compensation for 
the trouble and upset Miss S suffered is fair. Our investigator has suggested that interest be 
added to the weekly payment refunds, but I do not consider this to be necessary.
Putting things right
 Black Horse should compensate Miss S as set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Black Horse Limited to 
refund payments to the equivalent of five weeks for impaired use of the car.
pay a further amount of £250 for any trouble and upset thats been caused due to the 
faulty car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman