DRN-2789523
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the maturity payments he received from Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited (Phoenix, previously trading as Pearl) for his mortgage endowment policies. 
Mr S has brought his complaint to us via a representative. For ease, references to Mr S 
include the actions and comments etc. of his representative. 
What happened
Mr S took out mortgage endowment policies with Phoenix in 1994 and 1996 
respectively.
In 2001, Phoenix introduced the Pearl Promise. If the average investment return 
(allowing for expenses and tax) was at least 6%, Phoenix would guarantee the policy 
target at maturity. This was subject to certain qualifying criteria.    
In 2002, when purchasing a house with his now-wife, Mr S says he was advised to 
transfer the policies to his father in case they later separated. 
The policies were both due to mature in late 2019. Mr Ss father transferred them 
back to him in advance of this. But when they matured, Phoenix didnt pay the full 
target amounts.  
Mr S complained. Phoenix said the conditions for the Pearl Promise included that the 
policies couldnt be assigned unless part of a mortgage arrangement, or part of a 
divorce or separation settlement. As hed assigned them to his father, who then 
assigned them back to him, he didnt qualify. Regardless, it said it would still meet the 
Pearl Promise. But it then reversed this decision. It offered £500 compensation for 
the confusion and disappointment caused.
Unhappy with this offer, Mr S referred the matter to our service. Phoenix has 
consented to us considering the complaint. Our investigator concluded that Mr S 
didnt qualify for the Pearl Promise, and that Phoenix had offered fair compensation 
for the communication about this.
In response, Mr S said it was Phoenix who advised him to assign the policies  
without explaining the implications. But our investigator wasnt persuaded that it had 
advised him to do this, so didnt change his view. 
Mr S maintains that Phoenix gave him poor advice in 2002. He also doesnt think the 
call in which Phoenix said it would pay the promise has been properly considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The terms of the Pearl Promise set out that you must not assign your policy, other 
than as part of a mortgage arrangement or as part of a settlement on divorce or 
separation. If you do, the Pearl Promise will no longer apply. 
The deed of assignment from 2002 says Mr S assigned the policies as a gift. This 
wasnt part of a mortgage arrangement. Nor was it part of a divorce or separation 
settlement. Im therefore satisfied that Mr S doesnt qualify for the Pearl Promise. 
Mr S says Phoenix advised him to assign the policies in 2002 without explaining the 
implications of this. But Im not persuaded thats correct. Phoenix says it didnt advise 
him to assign the policies. Thats supported by the paperwork from the time, which 
refers to Mr Ss request being carried out on an execution only basis. Phoenix wrote 
to Mr S that he needed to read [the deed of assignment] carefully to make sure it 
meets your personal needs and that he should seek legal advice if in doubt.
On the balance of the available evidence, I cant safely conclude that Phoenix 
misadvised Mr S to assign his policies. Im also conscious that the relevant 
conditions were clearly set out in the letter Phoenix sent in 2001 when the Pearl 
Promise was introduced. Theyve also been set out on Mr Ss annual policy 
statements since then. So Im not persuaded its fair to hold Phoenix liable for the 
implications the assignment had on the Pearl Promise. 
Regardless, Phoenix did incorrectly tell Mr S at one point that it would meet the Pearl 
Promise. Despite the reasons it gave for why it would do this, I wouldnt consider it 
fair to bind Phoenix to this error. Its clear Mr S didnt meet the terms of the Pearl 
Promise. And these terms had been set out regularly to Mr S over the years. But Ive 
considered whether he lost out due to the miscommunication about this.
Ive seen nothing to substantiate that Mr S lost out financially due to the error. 
Phoenix realised and corrected the error around one week later, prior to making 
payment. But he clearly suffered loss of expectation. He was led to believe hed 
receive around £11,000, causing disappointment and upset when this wasnt paid. 
Thinking about the impact, Im satisfied the £500 compensation Phoenix has offered 
fairly reflects the substantial distress and inconvenience it caused Mr S. So I think it 
should pay this compensation. But Im not persuaded it needs to do more than that to 
put things right. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr S. But for the reasons set out above, Im 
satisfied Phoenix has already proposed a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my final decision is that 
Phoenix Life Assurance Limited should pay Mr S £500 compensation, if it hasnt already 
done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman