DRN-2016868
The complaint
Miss R has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unreasonably 
refused to pay her claim under her pet policy. 
What happened
Miss Rs dog required treatment and investigations into his liver and gallbladder. Miss R 
discussed this with RSA and believed the two investigations into the liver and then the 
gallbladder had been pre-approved as separate claims. So she went ahead incurring the vet 
fees for this.
When she made her claims, RSA then decided it would treat all the investigations as one 
condition. Given the benefit limits on her policy, this meant that her condition limit of £4,000 
was reached and therefore RSA wouldnt pay the second claim she had made. 
Miss R complained but RSA wouldnt change its stance. It did however offer to pay her £100 
compensation for its delays. So she brought her complaint to us. The investigator ultimately  
thought it should be upheld. RSA didnt agree so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint and Ill now explain why.
First, I dont agree on the evidence of the call recordings that RSA pre-approved Miss Rs 
claims. Certainly they were discussed but I dont consider RSA pre-approved them. 
Generally pet insurers dont pre-approve claims as often the treatment required is urgent and 
there simply isnt time to go through any pre-approval process. 
Here the key issue is whether the evidence from the treating vets, to include most 
importantly the specialist treating vet, shows that Miss Rs dog suffered from  one or two 
conditions. Miss Rs policy merely provides a maximum £4,000 benefit level per condition. 
Once that maximum has been reached there is no further cover for that condition. 
The matter was complicated by the fact Miss Rs own vet made the claims treating the 
matter as one condition. Therefore, I dont consider RSA was wrong initially to deal with the 
matter as one claim.
However, Im persuaded by the specialists vet thoughts on the matter. Whilst she 
acknowledges she cant be as definitive as RSA wished, given the liver was found to be 
inflamed and the gall bladder had fibrosis (and was subsequently removed), shes of the 
view that its more likely to be two conditions.
As the investigator said, RSA hasnt produced any evidence from another vet or its own 
internal vet advisers to counter this. On this basis Im more persuaded by the thoughts and 
evidence of Miss Rs specialist vet. She has been repeatedly asked to give her view and has 
remained consistent throughout. She confirmed she had seen Miss Rs dog in June and July 
2018 and said she saw him with:
a history of increased liver enzymes. Investigations carried out at this point revealed no 
evidence of gall bladder disease.
[Name of dog] was re-assessed sequentially, and when re-seen in July 2018 was identified 
to have an abnormal gallbladder and persistent increase in liver enzymes, he therefore had 
surgery for liver biopsies and the gallbladder was removed at this point (chloecystectomy).
The biopsy results as discussed multiple times previously, showed evidence of inflammation 
within the liver consistent with a hepatitis, and the gallbladder histopathology revealed 
evidence of fibrosis rather than inflammation.
Therefore based on the fact the liver changes were present on initial assessment in June 
and the gallbladder ones werent and based on the fact that there was fibrosis and not 
inflammation within the gallbladder, I believe these are 2 separate conditions.
However ultimately we cannot ever truly know whether these conditions are related or not 
but based on my clinical experience and the time lag between the conditions I dont believe 
they are related.
Im of the view when the evidence leans more towards the consumers advantage as it does 
here, that its fair and reasonable to find in favour of the consumer, rather than the insurer. 
Heres its clear a highly specialised referral vet believes there were two conditions suffered 
by Miss Rs dog, not just one. There is no equally experienced vet evidence before me which 
contradicts this.
Therefore, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities given the specialist vets evidence that 
its reasonable to consider Miss Rs claim as being for two conditions with two policy limited 
applicable. 
Putting things right
RSA produced evidence that Miss Rs vets claimed a total of £7,533.81 and that it has paid 
£4,000 so that leaves £3,533.81 remaining. However, it didnt detail the relevant vet invoices 
for all of its payments, which might have shown how the costs were applied towards the liver 
condition and then the gallbladder condition.
 
The investigator was of the view that RSA should separate all the costs relating to the liver 
treatment and all the costs relating to the gallbladder treatment and then apply each set of 
costs to the condition limit deducting the excess for each condition plus any non-prescription 
costs. I consider thats a reasonable approach. Its correct as per the policy terms that RSA 
benefits from two excess payments and doesnt pay for non-prescription items.
However, since the total amount claimed is £7,533.81 which is below the total of £8,000 for 
two conditions, if there are items that cant be clearly identified as being attached to only one 
condition, that cost should be reasonably split evenly between the two claims. 
RSA did pay Miss R £100 compensation for its delays in dealing with her claims. However, 
in view of what the specialist vet has said all along, I consider it should now pay a further £100 for the added trouble and upset it put Miss R to, in having to contact the specialist vet 
subsequently.
My final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do the following:
Consider the claims for vets costs incurred for the gallbladder and liver issues as 
separate conditions, calculating what it paid to date for each separate condition, 
deducting the excess for each and any unpayable items such as non-prescription 
items. Any items that cannot be clearly attributed to one or the other condition should 
be split evenly between the two claims.
Interest of 8% simple per year should attach to any further payments made to Miss R 
by RSA from the date the amount was paid by Miss R to her vets to the date RSA 
now refunds it to Miss R.
Pay Miss R the further sum of £100 compensation for the extra trouble and upset it 
caused her in disputing her specialists vet to include the further contact with this 
specialist Miss R had to engage in. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman