DRN-4083290
The complaint
Mr H complains about the interest rate on his Individual Savings Account (ISA) with 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money. 
What happened
Mr H says that during a branch visit he was told the interest rate on his account would not be 
increasing. Mr H is unhappy because he holds a variable account and says he should have 
been informed his account changed to a fixed rate account. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr H was given incorrect information 
in branch but the compensation of £75 was fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says when he went into branch in September 2022, he was told that his account was 
no longer being offered to the public and that the interest rate would not increase, despite it 
being a variable account. He says the branch told him he didnt need to be notified of a 
change as the interest rate wasnt changing. 
Mr H returned to the branch in November 2022 and spoke to a manager who said hed been 
given incorrect information previously and shouldve been told his interest is less likely to 
increase. Mr H thinks he wasnt misinformed during his first branch visit. He says this 
because the interest rate on his account has remained at 0.35% since July 2021 despite the 
Bank of England interest rate increasing at various points, from 0.1% in July 2021 to 5.25% 
in August 2023.
The terms of Mr Hs account says the interest rate on his account is variable which means it 
can be increased or decreased at any time. And I can see that Mr Hs account did receive an 
increase in interest rate in July 2021. Although I take on board Mr Hs comments that there 
were a number of increases by the Bank of England, I dont think it was guaranteed that the 
interest rate on his account would increase, or that Virgin Money had to follow any increases 
in line with the Bank of England. Therefore I dont think Virgin Money acted unfairly in not 
increasing the interest rate on Mr Hs account.
Mr H says he shouldve been told his account is no longer variable. But I dont think it is 
reasonable to conclude his account is no longer variable just because the interest hasnt 
increased after July 2021. It follows that I dont think Virgin Money changed Mr Hs account 
from a variable rate account to a fixed rate account without telling him. As there was no 
change to communicate to him, I dont think Virgin Money needed to do anything.
Virgin Money accept Mr H was misinformed during a branch visit. They offered 
compensation of £25 in their final response letter. However, as this wasnt sent when it 
shouldve been, Virgin Money credited Mr Hs account with £75. I realise Mr H would have 
been concerned during his first branch visit about his account, but I think the compensation 
offered is fair and reasonable, especially as the misinformation was rectified during his 
second branch visit.
I understand Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and hes said hes had to move his 
money elsewhere. But for the reasons Ive explained above I dont think Virgin Money needs 
to do anything further. 
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has already paid £75 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money do not need to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman