DRN-4117142
The complaint
Mr W complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly gave 
him a running account credit facility that he couldnt afford. 
What happened
Mr Ws complaint is that the credit given to him by J D Williams was irresponsibly given
because it was unaffordable and unsustainable for him. J D Williams told us the
account opened on 23 February 2015 with a credit limit of £100. JD Williams told us
there were seven increases to the credit limit. These were; 14 May 2015 to £200, 9
July 2015 to £300, 6 August 2015 to £500, 3 September 2015 to £700, 1 October 2015
to £1,000, 17 March 2016 to £1,500 and 21 December 2016 to £2,250. 
J D Williams have upheld the complaint in respect of the last increase to the credit limit on 
21 December 2016. They have not upheld the other lending decisions. Mr W is 
disappointed with that outcome as he feels all the lending was unaffordable. He is also 
disappointed with how J D Williams dealt with the redress. So, Mr W brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought that Mr W was 
not entitled to any more redress than he had already been offered. Mr W didnt agree. So, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here.
Mr Ws complaint is that J D Williams made credit available that was unaffordable. J D 
Williams has explained that it relied in part on information that Mr W provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. And they said they carried out a credit search in Mr Ws 
name to assess Mr Ws level of debt at that time and to understand how he had been 
managing that debt. With that information and using their own scoring metric, J D Williams 
decided to agree to the initial credit limit of £100 on 23 February 2015. The initial credit limit 
was very modest and the maximum monthly payments for that credit would have been 
relatively modest. So, the checks for affordability seemed proportionate for such a very 
modest initial credit limit.
In deciding whether to offer credit limit increases, J D Williams had further credit check 
information to consider as well as information on how Mr W was managing their credit. 
Through all of the subsequent credit increases the account was largely well managed, the 
payments were mostly above the minimum amounts required (sometimes substantially so) 
and Mr W was not using the full credit limit available to him. And so, from the information 
that has been submitted in this case, it seems to me that J D Williams were not put on 
notice of any reason not to agree the lending from that. And so, I dont think that the 
information that J D Williams had at the time of the lending decisions, or what they could 
see in the management of their account, would have led them to feel they ought to make 
more searching enquiries of Mr Ws financial situation.
I have to look at the information that was available to J D Williams at the time it made its 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the 
other information that J D Williams acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decisions, would have led them to think that the credit they were offering was unreasonable. 
But things were different for the credit limit increase on 21 December 2016, when the limit 
raised from £1,500 to £2,250. In the preceding months before that increase Mr W had a 
number of missed or inadequate payments. So, I think that J D Williams were correct in 
upholding Mr Ws complaint for unaffordable lending from the date of 21 December 2016 
and paying redress on any balances over £1,500 from that date onwards.
So, I am persuaded that J D Williams reached the correct outcome in their handling of Mr 
Ws complaint for upholding the complaint in part. 
Mr W was also disappointed that the redress payment was made without the addition of 8% 
interest and that it was used to pay down the existing debt on the account. So, did J D 
Williams apply the correct redress in this case? I think they did. Ill explain why I say that. 
J D Williams have already offered redress. Our standard redress for this case is as detailed 
below.
How to put things right
As I dont think J D Williams should have increased Mr Ws credit limit to £2,250, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balance which exceeded the previous
limit of £1,500. However, Mr W has had the benefit of all the money he spent on the
account, so I think he should pay this back. Therefore, J D Williams should:
Rework the account removing all interest, fees, charges and insurances (not already 
refunded) that have been applied to balances above £1,500.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr W along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. J D Williams should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after 21 December 2016 regarding this account from Mr Ws credit file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,500, J D Williams 
should arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr W for the remaining amount. 
Once Mr W has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded 
after 21 December 2016 in relation to the account should be removed from his credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to deduct tax from any award of interest.
It must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after
deducting the tax.
I think that Mr W has had the benefit of the goods he purchased. It wouldnt generally be 
reasonable to say that Mr W shouldnt pay the cash price for them. So, it is our standard approach, and a fair one I think, that J D Williams are entitled to use the redress funds to pay 
down an existing debt.
Our service would expect 8% simple interest to be paid on top of a settlement if following
adjustments and calculations of interest removal result in an overpayment once any 
outstanding balance has been cleared. But in this case, the amount outstanding is greater 
than the refund amount due, which means J D Williams have calculated and processed the 
settlement in line with what our service would expect for upheld complaints of this nature. 
On this basis, J D Williams have fairly calculated their redress which is in accordance with 
our standard approach for cases like this. So, they dont need to do anything further 
regarding redress.
I know that Mr W will be disappointed with my decision. And I want Mr W to know that I read 
and considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to make an award higher than that already offered by J D Williams in this 
case.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I think the offer made by J D Williams was fair, and I make no 
further award than has already been offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman