DRN-2614753
The complaint
Mr M complains that the car he acquired, via a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse 
Limited, wasnt fit for purpose and had been mis-sold to him.
What happened
In March 2018, Mr M entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement for a new diesel car.  
He says that, originally, he had been considering leasing the car and so had discussed 
mileage with the sales person at the dealership. He says he told the salesperson that his 
expected annual mileage was around 6,000 per year. However, in the end, he had decided 
to purchase the car via a hire purchase agreement.
Mr M says that a short time after acquiring the car the engine management light illuminated 
and he had to return the car to the dealership on a number of occasions for investigation and 
repair. He was provided with courtesy cars while his car was at the garage.
In September 2018, the cars injectors were all replaced under the warranty. The injectors 
required replacing again in July 2019, when the cars oil and oil filter were also replaced. 
This was again done under the warranty.
In October 2019, Mr M complained to Black Horse that he didnt believe the car was of 
satisfactory quality and he wished to now reject it. Black Horse began its investigation. Mr M 
also complained to the supplying dealer about lights illuminating on the cars dashboard, and 
it was booked to go in for further investigation.
In November 2019, due to engine management light still illuminating, the cars manufacturer 
requested that a driving data recorder (DDRS) be fitted to the car to establish what the fault 
was. After the car had been driven for 600 miles by Mr M, the data collected was analysed. 
This showed the following:
90% of all the driving cycles had been for less than 10km, and less than 20 minutes.
This was not optimal driving style for a new diesel and led to high oil dilution.
This had led to corrosion of the injector spray holes, as latent moisture in the engine 
cylinders was not burnt off.
The conclusion from the data was that the problems with the car arose from driving style, 
and not any inherent fault. 
Black Horse didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said the issues with the car were due to 
driving style. Black Horse said that it had also spoken with the dealership who had confirmed 
that, while the predicted annual mileage was discussed, driving style and length of journeys 
were not. It noted that Mr M had said hed owned diesel cars before, and he had also said he 
had read the cars handbook.
Black Horse said that, although it didnt believe it was liable for the issues Mr had 
experienced with the car, it accepted he had suffered inconvenience due to the problems 
that had arisen and the length of time its investigation had taken. Black Horse offered Mr M 
£200 compensation but reiterated this was not due to its accepting liability for the cars 
faults.
Mr M was unhappy at Black Horses response. He was also concerned to be advised that 
the warranty may not cover any further oil changes, or related repair work. Mr M complained 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said, looking at 
the evidence, it was more likely than not that the problems with the car had been result of it 
being a diesel engine and Mr Ms driving style. 
Looking at whether the car had been mis-sold, our investigator said that he didnt think the 
dealership had made a false statement of fact which had induced Mr M to enter into the 
agreement and purchase the car. He said he thought the car had been fit for purpose,
Our investigator said hed seen that the customer relations manager for the manufacturer 
appeared to think that the correct questions hadnt been asked if only 5,000 miles were to be 
completed but he also noted that Mr M had owned diesel cars before. He said, following his 
own research, the benefit of diesel engines was that they save on fuel consumption but, if 
not driven on long drives or motorways, there was a risk the filter would clog up. Our 
investigator said he accepted further questions could have been asked at the point of sale, 
but he didnt think there was enough evidence to say that the car had been mis-sold due to 
driving style not being discussed.
Mr M disagreed with the view our investigator. He said the issues with the car were all due to 
it being a diesel engine, and he hadnt been informed about the need for a certain driving 
style to avoid problems. He said that, although he had owned diesel cars before, this issue 
hadnt arisen. The car hadnt been suitable for his needs and the dealership should have 
discussed this with him. He said it was accepted the dealership should have asked more 
questions, but there appeared to be no consequences for its failure to do so, despite the fact 
he had a car that didnt meet his needs and, potentially, he would have expensive 
maintenance costs in the future.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Mr M felt that the number of times the car had been back to the dealership, 
and the number of times he had been provided with a temporary replacement vehicle, wasnt 
accurately reflected. However, I dont think its disputed that Mr M experienced a number of 
issues with the car. Or, that when it was investigated, the problems had more likely than not 
arisen from the way the car had been driven, rather than any inherent faults with the vehicle. 
I havent seen any evidence the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. So, the 
issue for me to decide is whether the car was mis-sold to Mr M.
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA), a finance company may be 
responsible for a credit brokers actions prior to the point of sale, meaning during the sales 
negotiations. Here, the dealership acted as the credit broker and so Black Horse can be held 
liable for information the dealership provided at the point of supply, that Mr M had relied on, 
and that induced him to enter into the hire purchase agreement for the car.It isnt disputed that the amount of miles Mr M drove each year was discussed, and I can 
understand why Mr M feels he wasnt given clear advice regarding the suitability of the diesel 
car. However, I dont think I can reasonably say the car was misrepresented to him. While I 
appreciate Mr M has a low mileage, (around 6,000 miles per year), this doesnt necessarily 
mean he intended to only use the car for short journeys and wouldnt be undertaking some 
longer journeys that would allow the DPF filter to regenerate, and therefore prevent the 
issues he has experienced with the car.
Ive also seen that Mr M has owned and driven diesel cars before and, as DPFs have been 
a feature for many years, I dont find it unreasonable that the dealership didnt raise driving 
style at the point of sale. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr M asked specifically 
about diesel engines and driving short distances.
Mr M has also said that the dealership should have discussed with him environmental issues 
and the impact of diesel engines. However, again, I havent seen that he raised any 
concerns about a diesel engine and its emissions, or that the dealership said anything that 
wasnt true about the use of diesel engines and the environment. I think if this had been an 
important consideration for Mr M, he would have asked about it at the dealership.
So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr M, Im not upholding his 
complaint, as I dont have enough evidence that the car was mis-sold to him.
Ive seen that Black Horse offered Mr M £200 compensation for the length of time its 
investigation had taken, and it acknowledged that he had suffered inconvenience and 
distress while the issues with the car were looked into. I think, in these circumstances, that 
was a fair offer and Im asking Black Horse to now pay that amount. It has taken time to 
establish what was happening with the car and this will have had an impact on Mr M, though 
I accept Black Horse was not responsible for the issues with the car that had arisen.
Putting things right
Im asking Black Horse to pay Mr M £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused by the length of time taken to investigate the faults with the car and the distress and 
inconvenience this caused him. However, I accept that Black Horse isnt responsible for the 
fault found with car.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about the car being mis-
sold to him. However, I am asking Black Horse Limited to pay Mr M £200 compensation it 
had offered for the distress and inconvenience caused by the length of time taken to 
investigate the issues with the car. As set out above, this compensation is not because Black 
Horse has any responsibility for the fault found with the car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Jocelyn GriffithOmbudsman