DRN-3219173
The complaint
Mr H complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) acted unreasonably in 
cancelling his motorcycle insurance without advising him. 
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 and set out the background of this case 
as:-
The background to this complaint is known to both parties so Ill only summarise it here.
Mr H applied on line through a comparison website and was then taken to One Calls 
customer journey process.
A proposal form was completed, and Mr H paid the premium quoted.
One Call say at this point Mr H was asked to provide his driving license details. 
No details were entered, and the policy was set up to commence the following day.
An on line portal was created  allowing Mr H to see the policy document and the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
One call say they attempted to contact Mr H by letter, text and email asking him to 
provide his license details. And gave him 7 days in which to respond.
Mr H tells us he didnt receive a text, email or letter. 
No response was received so the policy was cancelled after 7 days.
A refund of the premium, less a cancellation fee was made to Mr Hs credit card.
When Mr H saw this activity on his credit card he contacted One Call who confirmed 
the policy had been cancelled.
Mr H complained to One Call and didnt receive a satisfactory response so brought 
his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the cancellation charge was 
allowed within the terms and conditions of the policy. And that One Call had 
demonstrated it had fulfilled its obligations in sending the 7-day cancellation notice 
and had then confirmed the policy had been cancelled.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view and asked that an ombudsman decide his 
case.
And I set out my reasoning as follows:-
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im minded to reach a different outcome to our investigator and Ill explain 
why. I agree with our investigator that the policy terms and conditions allow a cancellation 
charge. However, the crux of this complaint is whether One Call acted fairly and reasonably 
in its handling of the cancellation.
One Call say they sent an email and a text message to Mr Hs mobile phone on the day 
cover commenced advising him the policy would be cancelled in 7 days if he didnt provide 
his driving license details. But theyve not provided any evidence to substantiate this. And 
from what Ive seen Mr H only provided his landline phone number, rather than a mobile 
number, which taints the suggestion that a text message was ever sent. 
I have seen a letter that One Call says was posted to Mr H, and I accept its most likely it 
was sent. However, only sending a paper letter to a consumer whod applied online doesnt 
feel proportionate, or fair and reasonable. And I would expect One Call to be able to provide 
evidence to support its claim that an email and text message was sent.  
When Mr H contacted One Call to query the cancellation after seeing the refund he was 
informed that the cancellation charge could be credited to a new policy with One Call. 
However, the premium had changed, and Mr H said he had lost confidence in One Call. He 
asked for the cancellation charge to be refunded and was told this wasnt possible.
Mr H has said he wants the cancellation charge to be refunded and a modest sum for the 
inconvenience of having to rearrange his insurance and the distress of learning that hes 
been riding his motorcycle without insurance for a short period. And, in the circumstances of 
this case I find that reasonable. Mr H has confirmed there were no incidents during this 
period.
I invited both parties to let me have their further comments.
Replies to the provisional findings
One Call sent a screen shot of the application showing Mr Hs mobile number. And supplied 
an extract from its system showing a cancellation text and email had been generated and 
issued on 16 March 2021.
Mr H made no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached a different outcome to my provisional decision.
From what One Call have sent I cant establish if the mobile number was captured at 
application stage or in a later on-line chat as Mr H suggests. However, the screen shot 
showing a cancellation text and email had been issued indicates they had been generated 
on 16 March at 8.42am. And this activity is item 17 on One Calls system. It had previously 
provided screen shots of activities 18, 19 and 20 on its system dated 17 March 2021. So Im 
satisfied that the activity on the 16 March is captured contemporaneously. And that a 
cancellation email was issued on 16 March. 
Id previously seen that during the final steps of its application process One Call had asked 
Mr H to provide his license details, and it said if the information wasnt to hand it could be 
completed within 7 days.
In my provisional decision I said the crux of this complaint is whether One Call has acted 
fairly and reasonably in its handling of the cancellation. One Call is not required to prove that 
a letter or email arrived, or to make a phone call to chase for driving license details as Mr H 
had suggested it should. On balance Im persuaded by the weight of evidence that a letter and email were sent to Mr 
H advising of the potential cancellation. And therefore, in the circumstances of this case, I 
find that One Call have acted reasonably, and in line with its terms and conditions, in 
cancelling the policy and making a cancellation charge.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman