DRN-2290316
The complaint
Mr J is seeking to recover £180,000 from Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays), which he lost 
from his account as a result of a third-party scam.
Barclays says it is not liable for the loss because Mr J unwittingly authorised the 
payment himself, and it did all it could reasonably to do recover the funds.
What happened
The details of this case were clearly set out by our investigator when they wrote to Mr J and 
Barclays recommending that Mr Js complaint not be upheld. As such, the facts are well-
known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. 
In summary, Mr J has been the victim of a scam. He was tricked into sending £180,000 to 
invest through what appeared to be a legitimate company. 
Mr J had been recommended the scam investment company by a long-time friend, who said 
he had personally invested with them previously and received a return on his investment. He 
was put in touch with his friends asset manager who persuaded him to invest. He was sent 
monthly account reports which showed growth in his investment so he made further 
payments into it. However, unbeknown to Mr J, he had actually been speaking with a 
scammer who was operating a scam company. 
Mr J was in regular contact with his asset manager, but around July 2017 he began to 
struggle to speak with them. Eventually in November 2017 he was told he was being given a 
new asset manager. When he spoke to them, he was asked to further invest £60,000 to 
receive a monthly income as he had previously requested. He declined to further invest as 
he had lost faith in the company and since then he has been unable to contact anyone, 
despite requesting they return his funds. 
Between September 2016 and January 2017, Mr J made the following payments:
6 September 2016 - £1,000
23 September 2016 - £39,000
21 November 2016 - £100,000
23 January 2017  £20,000
16 February 2017 - £20,000
Mr J made the payments himself online but said that Barclays should have exercised their 
duty of care to him as their customer. In particular, he felt that Barclays shouldve asked 
more questions before processing the payments to the scammer in line with the relevant 
regulations. He complained to Barclays in April 2019.
Barclays said that they were not liable because Mr J unwittingly authorised the payments to 
the scammer himself. They had followed his payment instructions based on the account 
details and sums he entered into his online banking. They said they did attempt to recall the 
payments, but as they were international payments there was no timescale for the receiving 
banks to respond in  or indeed to guarantee they would at all. They did accept that they 
didnt place the recall on the payments when Mr J first made them aware of the scam which 
required him to call back in on 2 April  so they offered him £150 as an expression of their 
apology. Mr J didnt agree, and so he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators reviewed what happened and didnt recommend that Mr Js 
complaint be upheld. They thought the transactions were unusual and out of character when 
compared to Mr Js usual account activity. But they felt that even if Barclays had contacted 
Mr J to discuss the payments before they left his account, it was unlikely the scam wouldve 
come to light. They didnt think there was anything about the circumstances leading up to the 
payments that wouldve put Barclays on notice that Mr J mightve been at risk of financial 
harm. And they didnt think it wouldve become apparent to Barclays that Mr J was dealing 
with a scam company. 
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, he said: 
his friend had come to our service with a very similar complaint after being scammed 
by the same investment firm and we found partially in their favour;
his transactions were irregular and large, as our investigator had said; 
the relevant industry guidelines say that Barclays is duty bound to detect potential 
fraud or financial abuse and should have a process in place to ensure that they 
contact their customer to verify their financial activity, challenge its authenticity and 
explain the potential fraud and discuss an appropriate plan of action. As it was clear 
Barclays didnt follow this, and our investigator had agreed they had not, he felt this 
represented sufficient grounds for Barclays to be held liable for his losses;
he felt that the focus of our investigators response had moved from what Barclays 
failed to do, to conjecture about what he may or may not have done with the 
information  and he had no wish to engage in a debate about what he would or 
would not have done if he was armed with this information; 
he was unhappy that our investigator hadnt referenced specific industry codes, and 
that instead had made assumptions and predictions about what his thought process 
may have been. He said he had demonstrated how cautious he was and felt strongly 
that if Barclays had warned him of the dangers of making the payments, he would not 
have made them. He found it upsetting and unethical that our investigator had made 
such comments; and
he said the £150 compensation offered by Barclays related to another complaint and 
evidenced that our investigator had taken what the bank said over what he said. 
 As Mr J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr J and I have a lot of sympathy for 
the situation he has found himself in. I can understand why he feels so strongly that his 
money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about what hes told us 
happened at the time and Barclays actions, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for 
me to hold Barclays liable for his loss.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Js complaint. I do appreciate 
how disappointing this will be for Mr J, but I dont think I can fairly say that Barclays should 
reimburse him for the money he has unfortunately lost to the scammers. Ill explain why. In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Barclays ought to fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud 
and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with 
than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr J when he transferred the funds to a scammer, and after Mr J 
contacted them to say he thought hed fallen victim to a scam; or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
It is not in dispute that Mr J authorised the transfers himself. Because of this, Barclays 
had an obligation to follow his instructions. But there are some situations in which it 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers 
- as Ive explained above. I consider that as a matter of good practice Barclays should 
have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
So, Ive first thought about whether the initial transfer Mr J made could be considered out 
of character and unusual when compared with his usual account activity. And, having 
reviewed Mr Js statements for the months leading up to the scam, it appears a payment 
of £1,000 wasnt unusual or uncharacteristic for this particular account - there had been 
comparable or larger payments on his account in the year before. 
But Mr J then went on to complete a further payment of £39,000 and Im satisfied that the 
account activity did become unusual and uncharacteristic at this point  there had been 
no comparable legitimate payments in recent times. The transfer was significantly higher 
than those made from the account previously and it was being made to a new payee. And so, Im satisfied Barclays ought fairly and reasonably, and as a matter of good 
practice, to have done more here. I think it ought to have made enquiries about the 
purpose of, and the circumstances leading up to the second transfer before it processed 
it.
Because Im satisfied Barclays should have contacted Mr J to discuss the second 
payment before it processed it, I have to consider whether any further intervention would 
have ultimately made a difference or not. I appreciate that Mr J doesnt think this is an 
appropriate conclusion for our service to make, but our role is to assess any mistake by a 
business, and to try to put customers  into the position they would have been in but for 
the mistake. We are not here to punish financial businesses  so the mere fact of a 
mistake is not enough to determine that a refund in full would be due. I have to consider 
what I think is most likely the position Mr J would have been in if Barclays had asked 
more probing questions about his transactions. 
It is impossible for me to say exactly how any conversation between Mr J and Barclays 
would have unfolded. And so, I must base my decision on what I think is most likely to 
have happened had Barclays intervened further. Ive done this by considering the usual 
types of questions I would have expected Barclays to ask Mr J had they contacted him  
alongside what Mr J has told us about the circumstances that led to him making the 
transfers. Having done so, I am not persuaded that further intervention from Barclays 
would have made a difference here. Im persuaded its most likely the scam would not 
have been uncovered and Mr J would have still gone ahead with the payments 
regardless. Ill explain why. 
Had Barclays contacted Mr J, Im satisfied he would have told them he was making a 
payment to an investment company  Mr J believed he was making a payment to a 
legitimate company and would have had no reason to say anything else. Once aware 
that Mr J was planning to invest, there are some additional questions about the 
investment that I would have reasonably expected Barclays to ask. This would include 
whether Mr J had been cold-called, how he came across the company, whether hed 
completed any checks on the company, what he was investing in, and what returns he 
had been promised, whether they were a regulated company; to see if any of the 
answers sounded like they were in line with what the bank ought to have known about 
the way investment scams tend to be perpetrated. But overall, Im not persuaded Mr Js 
answers to any of the above questions would have necessarily given Barclays 
reasonable cause for concern. 
Mr J has told us that he first became aware of the investment company when his friend 
recommended them to him, having dealt with them for three years. He was put in touch 
with them by his long-time friend, so the method of introduction wasnt a cause for 
concern in the way other methods may be  such as cold calling. And so Im not 
persuaded that in this particular case, the contact from the scammer was wholly unusual 
or unexpected for Mr J. 
So Ive then thought about whether there was anything that should have alerted Barclays 
to the scam, or whether they could reasonably have been expected to say anything to Mr 
J that would have notified Mr J that he was not dealing with a legitimate company. To 
determine this Ive thought about what Mr J knew and did prior to deciding to invest. 
Mr Js long-time, trusted friend had allowed him to see his monthly statements which 
showed he had successfully deposited and withdrawn monies. He said the monthly 
statements were impressive, but he is cautious, so he didnt immediately invest. He 
waited until his friend had experienced a good track record with them before he 
considered investing. His friend told him that he had done his research and even visited them in their Canary Wharf offices. His friend had ongoing monthly calls with his asset 
manager and said he had no reason to be suspicious of them in over three years of 
dealing with them. But Mr J didnt just take what his friend had told him at face value. 
Before Mr J joined up he did his own due diligence. He looked at their website (which he 
referred to as impressive), read their articles, searched online for negative reports and 
checked to see if there were any alerts from the FCA, and checked that they were a 
registered UK company. 
Once Mr J got in touch with them, he spoke to his asset manager who he said seemed 
very credible. They sent him literature in hard copy to review which showed their different 
offerings. They took him through investor checks including reviewing his passport and 
other documentation. And, after signing up they provided him with an investor card, and 
his login details to review his online investor account. He sent the £1,000 before he sent 
the further £39,000 to ensure that the funds were going to the right account, and his 
asset manager confirmed they had. And he reviewed the rate of return  which he said 
was attractive but not ridiculous - it wasnt so wholly unrealistic that I think it wouldve 
given Barclays reasonable doubt about its authenticity either. 
Having considered all of this, I am satisfied that Mr J was persuaded the company was 
genuine and I think it wouldve taken more than the bank making the type of enquiries 
Ive highlighted above to persuade him not to continue or alert him to the scam. And Im 
not persuaded that any of Mr Js likely answers wouldve put Barclays on notice that this 
might be a scam either. 
Ive also thought about whether anything else at this point ought to have alerted Barclays to 
the scam, but Im not persuaded it should have. The FCA had not reported on the scam 
investment company through a warning on its register. And there was no other information or 
additional checks Barclays could have carried out at that time that would have given it 
reasonable cause to believe Mr J was the victim of a scam. And so I dont think Barclays 
could have done more to uncover the scam in this particular case and I dont think it could 
have done more here to prevent the payments leaving Mr Js account.
The recovery of funds
There is no dispute that there was a delay in Barclays contacting the receiving bank  they 
have paid Mr J £150 by way of apology for this. They did send a recall request to the 
beneficiary bank on 9 May 2019. Unfortunately, they received a response on 17 May that 
said the account had been closed in July 2017. So whilst there was a delay in responding to 
Mr Js scam report  I cannot say that prompter action would have made any difference in 
their success in recovering Mr Js funds as the account had already been emptied and 
closed. 
Summary
I want to stress here that I am very sorry to hear about the situation Mr J is in but I dont 
think his loss was caused by any specific failing on behalf of Barclays and so I cant fairly 
ask Barclays to refund him. The fault, and loss, here lies with the fraudsters themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and do not require Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman