DRN-3923570
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined his claim for malicious damage on his 
landlords insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B owns a property that he rents out. He has landlords insurance with AXA to cover the 
property which he has renewed for a number of years. 
In April 2022 he evicted the tenant from the property and discovered it had been badly 
damaged. This included rubbish left throughout the property and excrement smeared in the 
bath. 
He made a claim for malicious damage but AXA declined it. It said it didnt agree the 
damage had been caused maliciously, but was instead due to the tenants lifestyle and poor 
maintenance. 
Mr B complained but AXA didnt uphold the complaint. It maintained its position that the 
damage had been caused maliciously. And it said the malicious damage cover stated that 
the property should be regularly inspected which it didnt think Mr B had done. It accepted it 
had caused a small delay and apologised for this.  
Unhappy with this response Mr B brought his complaint to this service. He said the legal 
definition of malicious damage included reckless acts, which he felt his tenants behaviour 
clearly was. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she didnt think the 
damage met a reasonable definition of malicious damage so thought AXA had acted fairly by 
declining the claim. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs policy provides cover for malicious damage by tenants. However it doesnt define the 
term malicious damage in the policy wording. Where a term isnt defined, this service 
considers what a reasonable interpretation of the term would be as read by a lay person. 
With malicious damage, this service generally considers it to mean damage that has been 
carried out with the intention to do harm. As it is the intention behind the damage that would 
make it malicious. If the damage has been done due to neglect or poor maintenance then 
there is no malicious intent. So we dont consider this would meet a reasonable definition of 
malicious.
Ive considered the evidence provided including photos of the damage and the report and 
comment from AXAs loss adjuster who inspected it. And based on this, I dont consider the 
damage was done with the intent to cause harm, but was instead the symptom of neglect 
and the lifestyle of the tenant. 
For example, there was human excrement found smeared in the bath. But this was due to 
the fact the tenant had cut the water supply following a leak and had started to use the bath 
as a toilet over a period of time. While this is certainly an unusual and neglectful act, as it 
was over a period of time I think this shows the intent wasnt to cause harm. But instead was 
due to a neglectful lifestyle and little regard for maintaining the property.  
For these reasons, I think AXA has applied a reasonable definition of malicious damage and 
has acted fairly by declining the claim. 
Mr B has said that the legal definition of malicious damage includes reckless behaviour. And 
the damage at the property is clearly reckless, so it should fall into this definition. While I 
appreciate his point, it isnt the role of this service to determine complaints in the same way 
as they would be assessed in court. We look at whether the company in question has acted 
fairly and reasonably. And when considering the definition and application of policy terms we 
consider the interpretation of a reasonable lay person. And this is what I have applied in 
reaching my decision here.
However this service is an informal alternative to the courts, so should Mr B wish to pursue 
matters further through a legal route then this option is open to him. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman