DRN-1148598
 
The complaint
Ms F complains that Arrow Global Limited unfairly tried to increase her loan repayments, and 
later defaulted her account. She also complains that she was not told about some previous 
repayment increases by the original lender.
What happened
In 2015 Ms F took out a student loan with Metro Bank. The loan was sold to Arrow Global in 
November 2018.
The terms of repayment were that the first monthly repayment would fall due six months 
after the course was originally due to end. Unfortunately, due to serious illness, Ms F was 
unable to complete her studies by the time she had expected, and so her exams had to be 
moved back. She also failed an exam (possibly also due to illness) and had to re-take it. 
However, each time this happened, Metro Bank agreed to postpone her first repayment to 
six months after the new course end date, as a gesture of good will.
The first three postponements were in March and December 2017, and April 2018. Each 
time, the amount of the monthly repayments was increased slightly, rising from the original 
£262 to £271, then to £276, then to £290. In April 2018, Ms F complained to Metro Bank that 
she had not been told about the first two increases. Metro Bank did not agree, and said it 
had told her about the new amounts in changed direct debit notices it had sent her each 
time. Later that year, Arrow Global bought the loan.
In March 2019, Ms F provided Arrow Global with evidence that she was still on the course, 
and asked for her loan repayments to be postponed. The next day, Arrow replied to say that 
the repayments would be postponed to September, when she would have to start paying 
£307 a month. Ms F challenged that, saying it was unfair and a breach of contract. Because 
she did not agree to pay the increased amount, the repayments were not postponed, and so 
the first payment fell due in April. She didnt pay, and after missing three payments she was 
served with a default notice in July. She paid the arrears, and so the default was avoided. At 
around the same time, she brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that the interest had increased 
because the term of the loan had increased, and so that was why the payments had 
increased. Arrow Global had served the default notice because Ms F had been in arrears.
Ms F asked for an ombudsmans decision. She maintained that Arrow Global had acted 
unlawfully.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Services jurisdiction is set out in rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority. These 
rules include some time limits on when a complaint can be brought. They say that we do not 
have jurisdiction to consider a complaint if it is brought to us more than six months after the 
respondent sent the complainant its final response to the complaint. (We can only consider a 
late complaint if the delay is the result of exceptional circumstances, or if the respondent 
consents.) Since Ms F brought this complaint more than six months after Metro Banks final 
response in April 2018, I cannot consider her complaint that she wasnt told that the 
repayments would be increased.
I have read the terms and conditions of the loan agreement. They say (in paragraph 17, 
second clause) that if the completion of the course is delayed, this does not affect the date 
on which repayments begin, which remains at six months after the original course end date. 
Therefore Arrow Global was not obliged to postpose the repayments, but only did so 
voluntarily, as a gesture of good will, and subject to the condition that Ms F pay interest for 
the extended term. That does not seem unreasonable to me, and I dont think it amounts to a 
breach of contract but a new, collateral contract, or rather an offer of one.
Ms F did not accept Arrow Globals terms, and so the first repayment of £290 became due 
on 30 April, in line with the previous arrangement agreed between Ms F and Metro Bank. 
After this date passed without Ms F paying, Arrow Global sent her a reminder letter in May, 
in which it said that the consequences could include defaulting the account, which would 
affect her credit rating. It also sent her text messages, before eventually sending her the 
default notice after the third missed payment. That is in line with what I would expect.
I have considered whether Arrow Global should have done anything differently, because 
Ms F was in financial difficulty, and a lender has a duty to treat its customers positively and 
sympathetically once it is aware that they are in financial difficulties. But I have looked 
through the contact notes for the loan account (which cover both Metro Bank and 
subsequently Arrow Global), and the emails between Ms F and both lenders, and I cannot 
see that Ms F told them about her difficulties prior to the default notice. I have also seen a 
letter which Metro Bank sent Ms F when her account was in arrears on an earlier occasion 
(before her repayment date was retrospectively postponed and the arears were cancelled), 
in which it asked her to get in touch if she was in financial difficulties, to discuss a way 
forward. That letter also included the contact details of some debt charities and debt advice 
centres. So I dont think Arrow Global needed to do anything differently, or fell into error.
Finally, Ms F has said that Arrow Global has been harassing her by trying to contact her 
several times a day. I havent been shown evidence of that, but I would not expect a lender 
to try to contact a customer more than once a day, so if Arrow Global has been calling her 
more often than that then it should stop. But Ms F needs to engage with Arrow Global if she 
is struggling to make her repayments. If she doesnt speak to them, they will continue to try 
to contact her, and they are entitled to try.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman