DRN-3856154
The complaint
Ms B, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms Bs representative has informed us that she took seven loans with Morses. 
Morses in its final response letter (FRL) following Ms Bs complaint which started in 
February 2022 has provided us with a loan table which has seven loans listed. That FRL 
was dated April 2022. The loan table is duplicated below. And in later correspondence with 
us Morses has explained that it has no information on loans 1 to 9 or loan 11 which likely 
were sold to Ms B by a company Ill refer to as SFS. 
Morses has explained that loans 10 and 12 in the loan table below were SFS loans and it 
has taken responsibility for them but has limited information  meaning it has no information 
about any of Ms Bs income and expenditure details. Loans 13 to 17 were sold by Morses. 
Our adjudicator has noted that there was a significant gap in the lending after loan 14. 
Loan Start Date End Date Capital 
AmountInterest 
amountTerm 
in 
weeksRepayment 
amount 
each weekWeeks 
Live
10 08/08/2013 08/08/2014 £200.00 £150.00 50 £7.00 52
12 29/01/2014 23/10/2014 £200.00 £120.00 32 £10.00 38
13 23/10/2014 01/05/2015 £250.00 £175.00 34 £12.50 27
14 01/05/2015 19/08/2016 £250.00 £175.00 34 £12.50 68
15 23/05/2017 22/12/2017 £200.00 £130.00 33 £10.00 30
16 24/10/2017 29/06/2018 £300.00 £195.00 33 £15.00 35
17 29/06/2018 10/10/2019 £300.00 £195.00 33 £15.00 67
After the complaint had been rejected by Morses in its FRL dated April 2022, Ms B raised a 
further complaint relating to an allegation of fraud. She said that some of the loans had been 
applied for and taken by a third party. Ms B was not able to identify which loans she was 
making that complaint about. A separate complaint was set up about that specific allegation 
and Ms Bs representatives on this complaint were not representing her on that other 
complaint relating to the fraud allegation. 
That other complaint closed recently as Ms B did not send to us a signed complaint form and 
sent to us no evidence to tell us about the complaint.
I have set this out here as I wish both parties to be clear that the alleged fraud element has 
not proceeded to any resolution and has closed. It is not a part of this complaint. 
In November 2022 one of our adjudicators considered this complaint about irresponsible 
lending. He did not have enough evidence from either party to come to any view on 
loans 1 to 9 and loan 11. So, he considered loan 10 and loans 12 to 17 only. His view was 
that Morses ought not to have lent to Ms B in relation to loan 14. 
Morses disagreed and so the unresolved complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Our adjudicator applied this to the first 
lending chain for Ms B and thought that it applied to loan 14. 
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. 
The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Ms B didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion and so the loans which resulted in a non-
uphold outcome I think have been resolved. So, I wont be making a decision about this 
lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms B had with Morses. So, they are 
something I will take into account when considering the other loans she took.And since our adjudicators view, Ms B has sent to us no other information about her 
financial situation from August 2013 onwards. I realise that can be quite difficult as it was 
almost a decade ago. So, I have had to assess the complaint on the evidence I have from 
Morses which, as has already been explained is slim. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 14 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history 
with Ms B, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Ms Bs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 14. I say 
this because:
At this point she had been indebted to Morses for several years and the records 
Morses had in or around 2013 likely would have shown that Ms B had been regularly 
taking loans from SFS (the predecessor company purchased by Morses) for years
Ms Bs loan 10 was for £200 and loan 14 was for £250, so there had been an 
increase in the lending. 
At this point Morses ought to have known that Ms B was likely borrowing to meet an 
ongoing and increasing need. And this indicates his problems may have been 
worsening.  
So, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than 
not Ms Bs indebtedness was unsustainable. 
I appreciate that Morses feels that the checks it did were enough to show the lending was 
affordable. But I think the lending pattern itself shows the loans werent sustainable. I think 
that Ms B lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing at loan 14 because:
it had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Bs indebtedness by allowing her to take 
expensive credit over an extended period.
the length of time over which Ms B borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on her ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market 
for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loan 14 and Morses should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms B at loan 14, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to reconstruct now accurately. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Ms B loan 14. Although there is an outstanding sum on the last 
loan I understand its with a debt collector and is one of the loans I have decided not to 
uphold as part of this complaint. And so, I say no more about it.
For the redress for loan 14, Morses should do as follows:
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms B towards 
interest, fees and charges on loan 14 including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything Morses has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Ms B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms B originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Ms B the total of A plus B.
D. The overall pattern of Ms Bs borrowing for loan 14 means any information recorded 
about it is adverse, so Morses should remove it entirely from Ms Bs credit file if it still 
shows on there.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Bs complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club PLC 
does as I have outlined above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman