DRN-2279595
The complaint
Mr P has complained on behalf of himself and the estate of Mrs P, his mother was Mrs P, 
that a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy was mis-sold by Santander UK Plc 
(Santander). The PPI was taken out In Mr Ps name at the same time as a mortgage in Mr 
and Mrs Ps joint names. 
What happened
The complaint has been brought by Mr P on behalf of himself and the estate of his mother, 
Mrs P, as they had a joint mortgage. But only Mr P was covered by the PPI policy. 
Mr P and Mrs P applied for the mortgage and PPI in 1991. Mr P brought the complaint in 
2019 that the PPI was mis-sold. Santander didnt agree to uphold the complaint, so Mr P 
brought the complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld as from the evidence 
presented it appeared the PPI was mis-sold. Santander initially didnt agree and asked for 
supporting evidence about what Mr P had said concerning his pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
Some evidence about this was eventually provided. Our adjudicator reaffirmed the 
recommendation that the mis-sale complaint should be upheld.
Santander said it would, as a gesture of goodwill, refund all the premiums paid for the PPI 
and also pay compensatory interest for the time Mr P had been out of pocket. Santander 
then wrote to Mr P offering to pay compensation of £2,106.94 before tax.
Mr P wasnt happy with the offer as initially he said the calculation of the compensatory 
interest was incorrect. He has later raised concerns that compound interest was caused by 
the PPI being associated with the mortgage and this also should be paid, not just the simple 
interest.
Another adjudicator looked at the offer and said what Santander had offered in 
compensation was fair. Mr P remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been brought by Mr P on behalf of himself and his sadly deceased 
mother as they took out a joint mortgage. But the PPI applied to the mortgage was only to 
cover Mr P. So, I am going to refer mainly to Mr P in this decision, but it does relate to Mrs P 
also as she was a joint mortgage holder and would have benefitted from the PPI had a claim 
been paid out to the joint mortgage. Mr P is represented in this matter by a family member.
When this complaint was first brought to this service it was because Santander hadnt 
agreed to uphold the complaint that the PPI had been mis-sold. Our adjudicator 
recommended that the complaint should be upheld. Santander eventually indicated it would 
settle the complaint as a goodwill gesture and pay compensation as if the PPI was mis-sold. 
So, I am not going to consider the mis-sale issues further in this decision as Santander has 
offered to pay full compensation as if the policy was mis-sold. I am only looking at if the 
compensation offered is fair, on the basis that it is what would be paid for the mis-sold PPI.
When Santander wrote to make its offer to Mr P, its first letter, dated 8 September 2020 said 
the PPI hadnt been mis-sold but it had calculated compensation for the excess commission 
paid over 50% and indicated the total for this came to £1,823.59 after tax. It sent a cheque to 
Mr P for this amount. Mr P said this wasnt what had been agreed and asked for clarification. 
Santander said there had been an error and the amount of compensation offered in the letter 
was correct, based on the total PPI premiums paid and compensatory interest on those. But, 
the covering letter was incorrect as this was an excess commission offer letter, rather than a 
full mis-sale compensation offer letter. Santander issued a new letter indicating how the 
£1,823.59 had been worked out overall, to refund all the costs of the PPI and pay some 
compensatory interest. 
But Mr P then said the compensatory interest calculation was incorrect. He provided some 
calculations to indicate that based on the total PPI premiums of £690.75, as indicated by 
Santander, the compensatory interest should be £1,699.54. Mr P has later indicated he 
should also get compound interest on the premiums as they were added to his mortgage, so 
became part of it and he paid mortgage rate interest on the premiums paid.
When looking at calculating compensation for mis-sold PPI I expect a business to firstly work 
out what was paid in total for the PPI. Where PPI is taken out with a mortgage it is generally 
paid by a monthly premium, so no interest is paid on the cost of the premium as it is not 
added to any borrowings. Even if the premium is collected as part of the monthly mortgage 
repayment it would not incur interest as it is collected and repaid on to the insurer, with no 
interest charged.
The only time interest is applied to PPI premiums related to a mortgage is when the premium 
is paid as a lump sum amount at the start and the consumer borrows the total premium 
amount in order to pay it to the insurer. That lump sum that is borrowed is added on to the 
amount the consumer is borrowing from the business for the mortgage. 
That isnt what happened here. Santander has very limited information and record from the 
time about the mortgage and sale of the PPI. However, what limited documentation is 
available indicates that Mr P and the late Mrs P borrowed £5,000 for their mortgage. The 
insurer has also provided information about monthly PPI premiums being paid of £6.95 until 
1997 and then increasing to £7.05 from April 1997 to June 1999 when the policy ended. 
The limited information available does indicate that a monthly premium was paid to the 
insurer, not a lump sum at the start of the policy. So this PPI policy was paid by separate 
monthly premiums and the cost was not added to any borrowings taken out with Santander 
for the mortgage and so the monthly premiums incurred no mortgage rate interest. 
Santander has calculated that Mr P paid in total £690.75 for the costs of the PPI premiums 
from April 1991 to June 1999 when it ended. This is based on the payments of £6.95 and 
£7.05 for the relevant periods as indicated by the records. As the payments were by monthly 
premium, as Ive indicated above, no interest was paid on the premiums. So the total to be 
refunded to Mr P for the payments he made for the cost of the PPI is £690.75. In addition to refunding this cost of the PPI, Santander also has to compensate Mr P for the 
time he was out of pocket for the cost, so it has to work out some compensatory interest. 
Compensatory interest is considered to be fair at a rate of 15% simple interest until April 
1993 and 8% simple interest after that date. Santander has worked this out to be £1,416.04 
in total. And from this it is required to deduct basic rate income tax, which is £283.20. This, 
together with the £690.75 for the PPI costs gives the total compensation after tax as 
£1,823.59.
In Mr Ps calculations for the compensatory interest he has worked out 15% simple interest 
for the period April 1991 to April 1993 on the total amount of PPI ever paid, that is £690.75, 
and then 8% simple interest on £690.75 from April 1993 to June 1999. The way Mr P has 
calculated the compensatory interest is on the total amount ever paid from the start, but Mr P 
wasnt out of pocket for this full amount for all this time.
  
It wasnt until June 1999 when the last premium was paid, that Mr P was actually out of 
pocket for the total amount. So, from June 1999 to the date the compensation is paid would 
be worked out at 8% on the total of £690.75. Before this the amount Mr P was out of pocket 
was less. 
In April 1991 when Mr P made his first payment of £6.95 for the PPI premium, he would only 
get 15% interest on this payment amount for the first month. As each month he paid more, 
the amount he was out of pocket increased, so more compensatory interest becomes due. 
But it is only due on the amount Mr P had paid, increasing each month.
I can see from the calculations provided by Santander this approach, calculating the 
compensatory interest on the slowly increasing amount Mr P was out of pocket, has been 
taken. Its calculation works out the compensatory interest on a monthly basis
I cannot share the actual calculations provided by Santander as these use its internal 
calculator and this is confidential. But to illustrate the method and how the amounts are 
calculated on a monthly basis I have copied the following figures for the first five months and 
last five months of the calculation, to show the amounts used and the compensatory interest 
calculated.
Date    
Cumulative 
Cost of PPIMonthly 
Interest   
Cumulative 
Interest
Apr-91 £6.95 £0.09 £0.09
May-91 £13.90 £0.17 £0.26
Jun-91 £20.85 £0.26 £0.52
Jul-91 £27.80 £0.35 £0.87
Aug-91 £34.75 £0.43 £1.30
  
May-20 £690.75 £4.60 £1,397.62
Jun-20 £690.75 £4.60 £1,402.22
Jul-20 £690.75 £4.60 £1,406.83
Aug-20 £690.75 £4.60 £1,411.43
Sep-20 £690.75 £4.60 £1,416.04
Mr P will also be able to see from this that the compensatory interest had been included for 
the whole of September 2020. I know one concern he has raised is that he didnt cash the 
cheque he was sent with the initial offer letter dated 8 September 2020. It seems he only did 
cash it when he received the second offer letter dated 23 September 2020. This was only around a two-week gap and as the compensatory interest was calculated for the whole of 
September, I dont think Santander needs to calculate any additional compensatory interest 
based on the facts of this case and the approach it has taken to the calculation.
Taking everything into account, I am satisfied that the compensatory interest calculation and 
compensation offered and paid by Santander is fair. 
When Mr P was told the complaint was going to an ombudsman, he sent in a summary of 
issues that he was not happy with, this being set out in six points in his correspondence. To 
ensure he is satisfied I have considered all his concerns I shall briefly set out my comments 
on each of his points. 
Point 1: Mr P was unhappy with the calculation of the compensatory interest and wanted to 
see the full calculations from the business.  I have already addressed this above. 
Point 2: Mr P refers to documents from the insurer that he says indicate PPI was never 
discussed with him when he and Mrs P took out the mortgage and he never agreed to take 
out the PPI.  The document Mr P has referred to from the insurer is not the mortgage 
application but is an application for an Endowment Policy and Life cover. This insurance 
application is totally separate to the PPI that he took out which was called Paymentcare 
and the separate application form completed for the PPI would have indicated the name of 
the cover. The Endowment and Life Policy were separate insurance cover and paid 
separately to the PPI.
As Mr P took out a separate Paymentcare policy for the PPI he would not have taken out an 
additional PPI policy as part of the Endowment and Life Policy application as he would then 
have had duplicate cover.  Mr P says he didnt have a separate direct debit set up for 
payments towards his endowment policy and PPI policy. But the information from the insurer 
about the Endowment and also about the PPI suggest that they were separate amounts and 
payments, that the insurer received. I have seen no evidence to show, as Mr P suggests, 
that the mortgage payment made to Santander automatically included PPI.
Point 3: Mr P has expressed concern about the dates the PPI payments were paid and the 
fact he says he wouldnt have known until at least 1993 that PPI was being paid as the 
insurer says it doesnt have details of the actual premiums before 1993.  There is very little 
information from the time of sale in 1991 but has been assumed in calculating the PPI costs 
that premiums were paid from April 1991 when the mortgage started. If for any reason no 
payments were actually made until 1993, in calculating the compensation Santander has 
assumed the payments started at the same time as the mortgage in 1991. So Mr P is being 
compensated for the maximum period he may have paid for the PPI and any lack of 
documentation and evidence from the time has not had any effect on what Mr P has been 
paid in compensation and I cannot see he has lost out.
 
Point 4: Mr P refers to the lack of documentation the insurer has for the sale and the concern 
about the PPI being part of the mortgage payment and compound interest being paid on the 
premiums. - But the insurer did not make the sale, that was Santander. Santander has 
indicated it has no actual documents from the time and very limited information. The fact that 
no documentation and information is still available from the time does not mean Mr P wasnt 
provided with this at the time the PPI was taken out. As I have said already, the document 
Mr P refers to as the mortgage application, provided by the insurer, is not that but is an 
application for a Life Policy and Endowment which refers to the mortgage amount Mr P was 
seeking to take out. I have already addressed above the issue of compound interest and this 
does not apply to this case. Point 5: Mr P is unhappy that he was asked to agree to the adjudicators findings and offer 
made by Santander without seeing the calculation and offer and then finding the offer was 
not what he expected. When this complaint was first brought to this service it was about the 
mis-sale of the PPI, not the compensation being offered. So when Mr P was accepting was 
that Santander was willing to settle the complaint and would agree to paying compensation, 
in line with the approach this service would require, when a PPI policy was mis-sold. Mr P 
wasnt as suggested by him forced into agreeing to the amount of compensation without 
seeing it. He was only accepting that an offer of the full redress would be made. He has 
since raised his concerns about the amount offered and this complaint about the offer is 
what I am looking at.
When the offer was originally made Santander did make an error and sent its offer letter as if 
this was a complaint about unfair relationships and excess commission that may have been 
paid. I can understand that Mr P was confused and upset when he read this letter as it 
indicated the mis-sale was not upheld and he was only getting excess commission over 50% 
of the premiums, not the full premiums he had paid. Santander has apologised for the error 
in issuing the wrong cover letter and explained Mr P had been offered all the costs of the 
PPI, not just the commission element. But I do think this first offer letter would have caused 
some stress and upset for Mr P and I think Santander should pay some additional 
compensation for this. I shall address this further at the end of this decision. 
Mr P has also mentioned in this point that the cheque sent originally wasnt paid in by him 
until after the second offer letter was received and so the compensation should have been 
recalculated and updated. I have already addressed above the point about the amount of 
compensatory interest being calculated to the end of September in Santanders calculation. 
Point 6: Mr P is unhappy that Santander hasnt agreed the PPI was mis-sold and he says an 
unfair relationship was created and this hasnt been considered in the compensation offered. 
 This service is not the regulator and is not here to penalise a business. We are here to 
resolve specific complaints to ensure the outcome is fair and reasonable. Whatever wording 
Santander has used, it has accepted responsibility for the sale of the PPI and it is willing to 
pay Mr P compensation to put him back in the position he would have been if he had never 
taken out the PPI policy  in exactly the same was as if the PPI was mis-sold. I think what 
Santander has offered in order to achieve this is fair, as I have set out above. 
Mr P says the unfair relationship hasnt been considered in the compensation awarded. This 
indictes Mr P believes he should also receive compensation for excess commission caused 
when an unfair relationship is created by non-disclosure of the amount of commission paid, 
as indicated in the first letter Santander sent to Mr P with the offer amount. But this would 
only be considered and paid if the full costs of the PPI were not being refunded and it was 
only the commission costs that were being considered as part of an unfair relationship. Mr P 
is being refunded everything he paid for the PPI costs and this includes any commission that 
was included in the premiums. 
Overall I am satisfied that Santander has offered compensation in line with the rules that 
apply to put Mr P in the position he would have been in if he had never taken out the PPI. Its 
offer has refunded the full costs he paid and also paid compensatory interest, calculated as 
required, for the period he was out of pocket for the costs of the PPI.
I have indicated above that I think Mr P would have been confused and upset when he 
received the first offer letter from Santander. This letter was basically a wrong template letter 
sent by Santander and it has admitted the error it made and apologised. However, in view of 
the trouble and upset caused by this letter and incorrect information I think Santander should 
pay an additional £100.00 to Mr P. Putting things right
I have indicated above that I think Mr P would have been confused and upset when he 
received the first offer letter from Santander. This letter was basically a wrong template letter 
sent by Santander and it has admitted the error it made and apologised. However, in view of 
the trouble and upset caused by this letter and incorrect information I think Santander should 
pay an additional £100.00 to Mr P. 
My final decision
 For the reasons I have set out above I am satisfied that the compensation that Santander 
UK PLC has offered to Mr P and the estate of Mrs P to settle their complaint is fair, as it 
repays the full costs of the PPI and also the required compensatory interest. 
However due to the error made by Santander UK PLC in sending the incorrect letter to Mr P 
and the trouble and upset this caused I am directing that a further £100.00 is paid in 
compensation for this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and the 
estate of Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman