DRN-3639677
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited trading as NFU Mutual (NFU) handled a subsidence claim against his home and 
lifestyle insurance policy. 
Reference to NFU include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties, so I wont repeat it here in detail. In 
my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mr W reported damage to his property in 2015 which was deemed to be the 
result of movement largely due to poor foundations and ground conditions. NFU says the 
claim was agreed to be cash settled, and Mr W would arrange for his own contractors to 
undertake the repairs. 
Mr W says significant delays were caused by NFU and they provided unfair cash settlement 
offers. He says this resulted in the claim running for as long as it has and his property further 
deteriorated  becoming unsafe. 
NFU says Mr W struggled to find contractors to provide a quote which prolonged the claim 
further. And say he wasnt happy with their contractors capabilities in respect of the repairs 
required. They offered to cash settle the claim in 2018, which Mr W didnt accept. Mr W later 
provided his own quote and NFU increased their offer, and say with their final settlement 
amount, their total claim outlay would roughly total £77,000. 
Mr W wasnt happy with NFUs cash settlement offers, and says his own quote is no longer 
valid. He complained to NFU about the way they handled it, the cash settlements, and their 
failure to put him and his young family in alternative accommodation  which he says hes 
had to pay for whilst living away from them over the years the claims been running. 
NFU responded to it in 2021. They accepted there were service issues and paid Mr W £350 
compensation. They maintained, however, they made reasonable attempts to cash settle the 
claim in line with the policy terms. Mr W wasnt happy and approached our service. 
Our investigator recommended a partial uphold. Although he didnt think Mr W demonstrated 
NFU failed to settle the claim fairly, he thought NFU should pay a further £350 compensation 
for the way things were handled. 
Mr W didnt agree. He provided a further report he says supports that NFU treated him 
unfairly. Our investigator didnt agree, so the case was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made many points in relation to this matter, I havent addressed each one. Were 
an informal service and so focus on what we consider to be the pertinent points. 
How the claim was settled and alternative accommodation 
NFU say Mr W was carrying out renovations when he found the 2015 claim damage. They 
say he wanted to make alterations to his property in the areas of damage, so it was agreed 
appropriate for the claim to be cash settled. Mr W says, however, this is untrue, and he 
never requested a cash settlement  this was suggested by NFU. 
This is a key point in this complaint. The dispute over which party suggested the claim be 
cash settled isnt the material factor here. The important point is all parties agreed to it. The 
notes regarding why it was deemed appropriate to cash settle the claim date back to 2016, 
so its difficult to determine what was said, and by whom. Since then, however, Mr W has 
provided information that strongly suggests he wasnt happy with NFUs contractors. In 
recent correspondence, Mr W provided us with reviews of the company and has said he 
thinks they were incapable of undertaking the works and wouldnt have used them. So, 
regardless of who suggested the cash settlement option, I find it most likely Mr W would 
have opted for this in any event given the claim notes and recent submissions to our service. 
Once a cash settlement was agreed, NFUs liability for the claim was limited to providing Mr 
W with a cash settlement only. They werent liable for repair works or, importantly, remedial 
works to make the property safe once this concern was discovered around 2020. 
Id have expected the alternative accommodation section of the policy to have responded 
once the experts noted safety concerns if NFU were responsible for repairs  not cash 
settling the claim. Although NFU says Mr W still had use of cooking and washing facilities, 
once safety concerns were raised  regardless of how many rooms were impacted by this  
its clear the home became uninhabitable. But, as mentioned above, NFU werent 
responsible for the claim repairs or remedial works given the claim was agreed to be cash 
settled much earlier than when these safety concerns were raised. Although the notes do 
suggest NFU did attempt to alleviate these safety concerns after they were established. 
I understand the reasons why Mr W says he moved his young family away from the property. 
But I wouldnt expect the alternative accommodation section of the policy to respond 
retrospectively to a claim that was agreed to be settled by a cash settlement. So, I wont be 
directing NFU to reimburse costs Mr W incurred in arranging alternative accommodation. 
Claim settlement 
The property has been deteriorating for many years  likely even before Mr W first noted 
signs of damage. And conditions have worsened whilst this dispute over the claim costs 
have been running. Therefore, its fair to assume claim-costs would increase over this time 
due to the rise in the costs of materials, and damage worsening. So, it wasnt unexpected to 
have seen NFUs cash settlement amounts to have increased over these years. They say 
their latest offer accounts for cost increases and includes a contingency sum for additional 
repairs that may be required. 
Mr W provided a new report in August 2022 which he says supports his complaint. Although 
this took place after NFUs 2021 final response letter, I think its important I refer to it here. 
Within this report, the expert says their findings on the damage concur with whats already 
been scoped by previous contractors  including NFUs. So, this satisfies me that NFU took 
reasonable steps to include all the damage caused by the 2015 claim as part of their scope 
of works. But, importantly, the expert says they consider the latest offer made by the insurer 
to be a reflection of the likely costs associated with the claim-related repairs. Mr W says the expert made a mistake and meant to report NFU should settle the claim 
based on his own contractors 2021 report  which is no longer valid and needs to be redone. 
Mr Ws own contractors also said a 20% increase would likely be included due to the time 
passed. It might be the case the expert made a mistake but given NFUs settlement and 
claim outlay is greater than Mr Ws own 2021 quote, this suggests NFU reached a fair and 
reasonable settlement for the claim. 
NFU say theyve paid £16,829.55 towards the claim and a further £60,315.58 is due to Mr 
W. Based on what Ive seen, I havent been persuaded by Mr W to agree this is unfair. So, 
NFU must now cash settle the remaining amount of the claim directly with Mr W in full and 
final settlement.  
Outstanding works Mr W says should be included 
The August 2022 report says to meet current requirements for flue installation a flue liner will 
be required for the chimney. This seems reasonable, so NFU will need to consider this 
further when making the final claim settlement to Mr W. 
The claim notes suggest the bay windows were to be considered as a separate claim in 
2016, although the scope of works make mention of these. NFU said the damage looked 
historic given the previous repairs. The August 2022 report says the damage indicates 
downward movement, although this wasnt investigated. The report also says the bays were 
poorly constructed. As its still unclear as to whether the bays damage is related to this 
claim, Mr W will need to discuss this further with NFU. 
Service issues 
Its fair to say this claim has been subject to avoidable and unavoidable delays, against the 
backdrop of Mr W witnessing his property deteriorate as the years have gone on. He says 
hes had to live away from his young family whilst the claim has been running due to the 
safety concerns regarding the property. Ive no doubt this has caused him to suffer a level of 
prolonged distress and inconvenience  over and above whats naturally expected following 
a claim such as this one. 
There were periods early in the claim where things didnt progress as they should have, and 
Mr W was left chasing for updates. The claim notes also suggest some time was taken for 
Mr W to source his own local contractors which I appreciate would have only added to his 
frustration. I think the crux of the matter here is theres been a longstanding dispute over 
how much the claim should be cash settled for. This led to further site visits and schedules of 
the works, and periods for NFU to consider Mr Ws own quotes and information. 
Because I dont think the alternative accommodation section of the policy should have 
responded, Im in turn unable to agree Mr W should be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience of having to live in his property during the claim period. Rather, Ive 
considered the delays and service issues I think were avoidable and NFU were responsible 
for. 
As such, it's clear to me there were periods during the claim that demonstrate a lack of 
communication, proactiveness, and progression, which Ive no doubt would have caused Mr 
W additional distress and inconvenience during what was already a frustrating time. And I 
think our investigator rightly recognised NFUs initial compensation payment of £350 in 
respect of this was unfair. Having carefully considered the service issues, delays, and the impact on Mr W, I find £700 
compensation to be fair, reasonable, and proportionate in this case. Whilst clearly there were 
avoidable delays NFU were responsible for, I also think there were delays during the claim 
outside their control. So, Ill be directing NFU to pay an additional £350 to Mr W. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr W. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve his dispute with NFU  can do for him. 
Putting things right
NFU must now cash settle the remainder of the claim settlement and consider whether the 
installation of a flue liner is required to be included as part of this. They must also pay Mr W 
a further £350 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused (if this hasnt 
already been paid). 
Its appropriate for NFU to also consider the bay window damage and whether the policy 
should respond to this. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I now require The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited trading as NFU Mutual to put matters right as set out 
under heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman