DRN-3859352
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont reimburse him for the money he lost when he 
fell victim to an authorised push payment (APP) safe account scam.
What happened
The details and facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat 
them at length here. 
In short, Mr A fell victim to a safe account scam. On 29 August 2022, he received a call from 
someone claiming to be from the Revolut fraud team. Mr A queried the number with the 
supposed adviser explaining that they were from a dedicated fraud team, but they would call 
him back from Revoluts main number. Mr A then received a call straight away with the 
number matching Revoluts number. Unfortunately the number had been spoofed.
Mr A says the fraudster knew his personal details, including his name and account number. 
The fraudster most likely knew the details as Mr A had unknowingly fallen victim to phishing 
scam text around a week before. 
Mr A explained he was informed that his account had been compromised and three 
transfers/payments totalling £1,700 had been blocked. Mr A says he was told his account 
was at risk and he needed to move his money to a new safe account.
Mr A also then received a text from whom he thought was Revolut, as it appeared as though 
it had come from Revolut. The text advised Mr A his account had been restricted temporarily 
and they were reregistering his account and the adviser he was connected to will provide 
further information. 
Mr A explains that he was told by the adviser a new protected account was set up under a 
different name for security purposes, and once he had moved across his funds the account 
would automatically switch into his name and he would also receive an email with a welcome 
pack.  
Mr A, believing things to be genuine, transferred two amounts in succession to the 
beneficiary details provided by the scammer. The first payment was for £15 at 9.04pm. After 
Mr A made the first payment, he was provided with a link which Mr A says took him to what 
looked like the genuine Revolut platform. Mr A says it showed £15 had been received. Mr A 
then went ahead and made a second transfer for £9,230 at 9.20pm.
 
Mr A realised he was the victim of a scam shortly after, when he didnt receive any further 
communication or welcome pack. In total, Mr A lost £9,245.
Mr A then reported the matter to Revolut to see if it could help recover his funds. Revolut 
logged the matter that evening and contacted the receiving firm (the firm where Mr A had 
sent the funds to) to see if any funds remained that could be recovered. 
Revolut also reviewed what had happened and informed Mr A that as he had authorised the 
transfers, it wasnt responsible for the loss. Revolut explained it identified the second transfer 
as an out of character transaction and set it to pending. It advised it asked the purpose of 
the payment and provided a warning about common scams. Revolut explained that while it 
has a duty to protect customers money it also has an obligation to execute its customers 
instructions to make payments. It considered that in Mr As case it had fulfilled both.
Ultimately Revolut never received a response from the receiving firm of where the funds had 
been sent to and so informed Mr A that it wasnt able to recover any funds. 
Unhappy, Mr A referred the matter to our service. One of our Investigators looked into Mr As 
complaint. Broadly summarised, she considered while Mr A had authorised the transfers 
(albeit while being tricked); Revolut should have systems in place to look out for unusual 
transactions or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud or 
financial harm.
Our Investigator, when looking at the transfers Mr A made, considered the first transfer of 
£15, while to a new payee, wasnt remarkable. So she thought it wasnt unreasonable for the 
transfer not to flag as suspicious to Revolut. But she thought the second transfer of £9,230, 
should have flagged. She said this because it was another payment made to the same 
beneficiary in quick succession and was of an increasing amount. It was also a large amount 
and was more than Mr A had transferred previously and nearly emptied his account 
completely. 
Our Investigator thought Revolut should have done more than it did to intervene on the 
second transfer, and it should have contacted Mr A about it. It was our Investigators view 
that, had it done so, it was more likely than not the scam wouldve unravelled, and the loss 
wouldve been prevented. 
Our Investigator therefore thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She 
recommended Revolut refund Mr A for the second transfer of £9,230. She also 
recommended Revolut pay additional interest on that amount at 8% simple interest from the 
date of the second transaction until the date of settlement, as Mr A had been deprived of the 
use of his funds.
Mr A accepted the Investigators findings, but Revolut disagreed. 
Broadly summarised Revolut considered that it had provided an initial warning when Mr A 
was making the first payment to a new beneficiary. And it identified the second transfer as 
out of character and asked Mr A the purpose of the payment. It said that Mr A chose the 
wrong payment purpose  choosing goods and services as opposed to safe account  so 
it considered Mr A should share some responsibility for the loss. Revolut also considered 
that had it intervened further, as Mr A was being guided by professional scammers, then it 
was unlikely that Mr A would have been truthful. So it considered it wouldnt have been able 
to prevent Mr A from making the payment.Our Investigator disagreed and remained of the opinion that had Revolut had better 
intervention the scam would have been revealed. They considered while Mr A had been 
guided through the payment purpose the scammer had given Mr A a plausible reason for 
choosing goods and services  that the payment would be seen as going to a merchant 
account which the fraudster trying to hack Mr As account wouldnt be able to gain access to. 
But importantly they thought Mr A hadnt been provided with a cover story or coached as to 
what to say by the fraudster if Revolut contacted him. So they considered Mr A, if he had 
been contacted by Revolut, would have explained what he was doing and why which would 
have put Revolut on notice that Mr A was at risk of falling victim to a scam. And had things 
been explained then Mr A would have likely questioned what was going on and wouldnt 
have made the transfer. The Investigator remained of the opinion that the second transfer 
could have been prevented by Revolut.
Revolut disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a determination. So as the matter 
hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
It is the case that Mr A authorised the transfers in dispute and thats accepted by all parties. 
And under the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in 
place here) that means Mr A is responsible for them. That remains the case even though 
Mr A was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Taking the above into consideration, in this case, I need to decide whether Revolut acted 
fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A when he made the two transfers to a new 
payee, or whether it should have done more than it did.Did Revolut act fairly and reasonably in this case?
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Revolut should have been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. 
When Mr A made the first transfer of £15 to the scammer, there wasnt anything unusual or 
remarkable about the transfer or the amount that ought to have alerted Revolut to the 
possibility Mr A was being scammed. It was a low value transfer and Mr A had made similar 
transfers of similar value before. So I dont think it was unreasonable for it to have not 
flagged as potentially suspicious to Revolut. 
But I am mindful that a common theme to a scam - especially a safe account scam  is that 
a scammer tries to gain as much money from unsuspecting victims as is possible. So where 
there are multiple payments or transfers made in quick succession, it is a possible 
indication to a bank or building society that their customer could be at risk of financial harm. 
The first transfer Mr A made was for £15 and the second transfer was for £9,230. So it was 
another transfer to the same payee in quick succession and importantly the amount had 
also increased significantly, nearly clearing Mr As account completely. I think the second 
transfer should have given Revolut a concern that its customer may be at risk of financial 
harm. 
So Im persuaded that when Mr A made the second transfer which was large in value to the 
same payee in a short space of time his account activity was unusual and out of character. I 
think Revolut should reasonably have taken additional steps and made additional checks 
before processing the second transfer. 
Revolut argues that it did identify the second transfer as out of character for Mr A and set 
the transfer to pending and asked Mr A about the purpose of the payment through its app. 
Revolut says Mr A selected goods and services  which was the wrong option as there 
was an option to select safe account. It considers that had Mr A selected the more 
appropriate option in safe account then he would have seen a warning in relation to those 
types of scams. 
When a risk is identified, the steps a Firm can take to intervene to satisfy itself that its 
customer isnt at risk of financial harm are its own commercial decision. So the question I 
must consider is whether Revolut took appropriate action in responding to the risk of 
financial harm it had identified?
Did Revolut take appropriate action in responding to the risk of financial harm it had 
identified?
I accept that a bank does have a duty under the Payment Service Regulations not to delay 
payments or transfers unduly. But it is not an unfettered duty to execute  and reasonable 
checks are also required as part of the broad regulatory landscape to treat customers fairly 
and to safeguard against the risk of fraud or financial harm. I accept theres a limit as to what 
a Firm can reasonably do; and I still expect consumers to take responsibility for their own 
decisions  and possibly even bear a reduction in compensation if there is clear evidence of 
blame on their own part (see below). But when plain triggers of unusual or uncharacteristic 
account activity exist, its not unreasonable to expect a Firms fraud alerts to respond 
proportionately  and that might simply include, for example, a phone call, in app chat or 
discreet conversation for transactions in branch to check that things are okay. First, I note Revolut has said that it has provided its customers with scam advice through 
blog posts, articles and email communications. While this is certainly good practice and does 
raise awareness  from a preventative aspect, Revolut  where it identifies in real time that 
its consumer is at risk of possible financial harm  still has on obligation to step in and 
intervene or make additional checks to ensure that everything is ok, and its consumer isnt 
potentially falling victim to a scam.
I also note Revolut, when Mr A made the first payment to a new beneficiary, said it provided 
a review transfer screen / page and at the top of this screen / page it stated the following:
Do you know and trust this payee?
If youre unsure, dont pay them, as we may not be able to help you get your money 
back. Remember, fraudsters can impersonate others and we will never ask you to 
make a payment.
Mr A has said that he didnt notice this and only remembered the warning about the second 
payment. I dont think this is unreasonable in the circumstances  and Im mindful that Mr A 
was being coached through the payment journey so I can understand why he might not have 
remembered seeing that warning at the top of the review transfer screen for the first 
payment.
However, in this case, I think the second transfer should have put Revolut on notice that its 
customer was at potential risk of financial harm. The second transfer which was 
considerable in its amount, nearly emptied Mr As account and that was made shortly after 
the first transfer had all the hallmarks of Mr A potentially falling victim of a scam.
Revolut identified the transfer meant Mr A was potentially at risk and set it to pending  and 
asked Mr A to confirm the purpose of the transfer. I consider that asking the payment 
purpose wasnt enough in this case and more intervention was required. I say this because it 
isnt uncommon in scams (such as a safe account scam) for the customer to be guided 
through the payment journey by a scammer. And without proactive steps to break the spell 
of scammers, customers will often proceed with the payment they are making. They are 
unaware that they are caught up in the scam. And when sophisticated elements such as 
number spoofing are involved, then the scam becomes significantly more persuasive. A 
warning is unlikely to have the required impact on a customer that has been manipulated 
into action through a combination of sophisticated means and fear and who is being guided 
through the payment journey by a scammer. 
So, when I take into account the risk Revolut had identified, I consider it should have 
intervened more than it did to satisfy itself that its customer wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
Direct contact with Mr A would likely have made the difference here. And I think that would 
be a proportionate response in the circumstances  given the risk it had identified. That 
intervention might have come in the form of Revolut contacting Mr A directly, or by requiring 
him to contact Revolut himself to speak to a member of staff before being able to proceed.
Ive thought carefully about what wouldve happened had Revolut made enquiries with Mr A 
(such as an in-app chat or phone call) before processing the transfer. 
There is obviously a balance to strike, and Im not suggesting that Mr A should have been
subjected to an interrogation by Revolut. But Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have 
satisfied itself that Mr A hadnt fallen victim to a scam, and Im persuaded it couldve done 
this by asking a few questions of Mr A prior to processing the transfer. Of course I cant know for sure what wouldve happened, so Ive thought about what is more 
likely than not to have been the case.
Mr A wasnt given a cover story by the scammer and had only been guided through the 
payment journey and what payment purpose to select. So I disagree that Mr A wouldnt have 
been truthful in any direct communication with Revolut. I think had Revolut contacted Mr A to 
enquire what the payment was for  it is more likely than not that he would have explained 
that he had been contacted by Revolut and was securing his funds as his account was at 
risk. 
Revolut would, or should reasonably, have been aware that this scenario fits the 
characteristics of a safe account scam. Firms such as Revolut have actual or constructive 
knowledge of all the main scams, such as this. So it could have explained this type of scam 
to Mr A. If that had happened, I consider it likely that the spell of the scam would have been 
broken and that Mr A wouldnt have proceeded with the transfer.
So I think Revolut could have prevented the loss Mr A incurred when he made the second 
transfer. 
Should Mr A bear some responsibility for the loss?
In reaching my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have also 
considered whether Mr A should bear some responsibility for his loss. Mr A has explained 
and provided evidence to show the text he received that he thought was from Revolut. And 
Mr A has also provided evidence of the telephone number and calls he received which all 
appeared genuine (as a result of number spoofing). Mr A says the adviser he spoke to 
knew details about him and his transactions and went as far as to discuss scams, provide 
him with a reference number, and also link which replicated a fake Revolut account that Mr A 
thought was his new protected account.
All things considered, Mr A was the victim of a cruel and sophisticated scam. I am satisfied 
he believed he was liaising with Revolut at the time and didnt foresee the risk of this sort of 
harm and was not partly to blame for what happened. So, on the particular facts of this 
individual case, I dont consider it fair to reduce compensation for some of the loss due to 
any blameworthy acts or omissions by Mr A. 
Did Revolut do enough to recover Mr As funds?
Ive also considered whether Revolut took reasonable steps to recover Mr As funds once it 
was made aware he was the victim of a scam. I am satisfied Revolut acted in a timely 
manner in contacting the Receiving Firm (where the funds had been sent to). It contacted 
the Receiving Firm shortly after Mr A reported the matter. Unfortunately the Receiving Firm 
never responded. So after a set period of time Revolut concluded that no funds remained. 
Faster Payments are often credited into the receiving account almost instantaneously and 
fraudsters typically withdraw / move funds on also in case they get frozen or withheld if the 
matter is reported. And thats likely what happened in this case. But overall, Im satisfied 
Revolut did take the necessary steps required of it and did so in a timely manner.
Summary 
Overall, I consider when Mr A made the second transfer, his account activity was unusual 
and out of character. Revolut could have done more to prevent the second transfer from 
happening. There was enough going on to suggest that Mr A may well have been in the 
process of being scammed and Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have picked up on 
this. Had it done so and had Revolut contacted Mr A directly and asked some questions to 
challenge the purpose of the transfer, Im persuaded it is more likely than not the scam 
would have come to light, and Mr A wouldnt have lost out on the £9,230 he transferred.
The money was taken from the Mr As current account. Mr A has therefore been deprived of 
the use of those funds. So Revolut should also pay interest on the amount not yet refunded 
at a rate of 8% simple per year. This should be calculated from the date Mr A made the 
transfer (the date of the loss) until the date of settlement.
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I uphold, in part, Mr As complaint against Revolut Ltd. 
I now direct Revolut Ltd to:
Refund £9,230 (less any sums that have potentially being recovered subsequently 
and returned to Mr A) 
Pay additional interest on that amount at 8% simple interest. This should be 
calculated from the date Mr A made the transfer (the date of the loss) until the date of 
settlement. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Revolut Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Revolut Ltd must give 
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I direct Revolut Ltd to pay compensation, as set out above, within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Mr As acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman