DRN-3301874
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) failed to set up payments into a Help to 
Buy ISA (HTBI). He would  like the money that should have been put into a HTBI to be put 
into one with any interest that would have accrued.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again  
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusion:-
Mr D has told us he wanted to set up a savings account and a  HTBI account to help 
with a future house purchase. It seems in a branch visit both accounts were opened  
with a regular £200 a month payment being set up for the savings account. 
Santander accepts it made a mistake in that Mr D wanted to make monthly payments 
of £200 into both accounts..
Santander regularly sent Mr D various statements for all his accounts. I have seen 
these statements which show a regular £200 payment from Mr Ds current account  
specifying this is into his savings account. The statements include  yearly ones for 
the HTBI showing no payments after the initial deposit payment and  yearly account 
summary statements showing funds in each of these three accounts  the current 
account, savings account and HTBI. From this information its clear that no regular 
payments were made into the HTBI. Mr D says he didnt see these statements as he 
didnt use online facilities and so only became aware of the issue in 2020. If Mr D 
thought he was making £200 payments each month into each account I am surprised 
he didnt realise from his current account balance that he wasnt making both 
payments. And if he didnt access online facilities he could have asked for statements 
to be posted to him. I do think there is some onus on consumers to keep track of 
accounts.
I think Santander has made a fair point that Mr D could have realised sooner that 
there was a problem. Had he done so within a few months of setting up the accounts 
it might have been possible to transfer the funds into the HTBI. But due to tax rules 
its now too late to do this , so it isnt an option to put the money saved into the HTBI 
as Mr D would like 
Whilst I think Mr D should have noticed the issue sooner, the initial mistake was 
Santanders and I dont think the £25 gesture of goodwill payment Santander has 
made is sufficient for the distress and inconvenience to Mr D. I think an additional 
payment of £175 is appropriate. I am pleased to say that Santander has agreed to 
this. Mr D has been given an opportunity to also comment on this but hasnt done so 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Santander UK plc should pay Mr D an additional £175 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience of not setting up his payments correctly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman