DRN-3632522
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as S has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as NIG
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claims.
Mr S, as one of the directors of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf. S is also 
represented in this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments 
as being those of S.
What happened
S held a business interruption insurance policy with NIG. In November 2020, S claimed on 
its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the 
pandemic. 
NIG turned down Ss claim as it said Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to property. It
also said that while the policy covered a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt one of 
the diseases covered.
Unhappy with NIGs response, S brought its complaint to us. It thought its claim should be
covered under several different sections of the policy.
Damage
S said the core business interruption section of the policy covers damage and that the
definition of damage is wide enough to cover loss of use and loss even where there hasnt 
been physical damage. S has referred to the cases of Tektrol v Hanover [2005] EWCA Civ 
84 and Kraal v The Earthquake Commission [2014] in support of why its claim should be 
paid.
Prevention/Denial of access
S said it was forced to operate a reduced business due to the forced closure of other 
businesses in the vicinity of it premises as well as guidance regarding social distancing and 
staying at home. S said these actions were as a result of the damage Covid-19 had caused. 
Suppliers
S said that Covid-19 had caused damage to its suppliers premises, which led to supply
issues from its suppliers resulting in losses to S.
Disease 
S said the list of diseases set out in this extension of the policy isnt an exhaustive list and
theres nothing in the policy to say that new diseases cant be added or are excluded. S said
the list of diseases are very similar to the Governments list of Notifiable Diseases and
therefore its reasonable to conclude that Covid-19 should be added. And that S had a 
reasonable expectation that any new notifiable diseases would be covered under the Policy. 
Closure
S said it was required to close due to the Governments guidance on social distancing and
therefore it had experienced a loss of use of the premises. S said the closing of the premises
was due to health and sanitation issues as it wasnt safe for people in be in close proximity
to each other. 
Other factors
S also said that it had expected to be covered following statements made by the
Government towards the start of the pandemic and had a reasonable expectation that its
policy would provide cover in these circumstances. S also said that Covid-19 and pandemics 
werent excluded by the policy and that where the policy is ambiguous it should be read in its 
favour.
Initial investigation
Our investigator looked into Ss claim but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt think
the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim.
S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It referred to the judges comments in
Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & AXA Insurance
Designated Activity Company [2021] IEHC 263 (Brushfield) in support of why its claim
should be covered under the clause regarding sanitary arrangements. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all, Im not going to
address them all in this decision but will instead focus on what I see as the central issues to
this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ss business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if NIG has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ss claim.
Damage
The core business interruption section of Ss policy provides cover:
If property used by you at the Premises or elsewhere as specified sustains Damage 
 causing an interruption of the Business which results in loss of Gross Income We 
will indemnify you 
The policy defines damage as Accidental loss, destruction or damage.
Therefore, for cover to apply under the core business interruption section, Ss businessinterruption would need to be as a result of accidental loss, destruction or damage to
buildings or property used by S at its premises. I dont think this would provide cover for Ss
claim, because I dont think the business interruption was as a result of damage.
S has referred to the cases of Tektrol v Hanover [2005] EWCA Civ 84 and Kraal v The 
Earthquake Commission [2014] which it says support that loss and damage do not have to 
be physical. 
The Kraal case was heard in New Zealand. It does not therefore set any precedent in the UK 
but in any event, I do not think it supports Ss claim. The 2014 judgment and the subsequent 
appeal in 2015 both said that the word "loss" has a broader meaning than "damage" but that 
the loss had to be of the property and not of the insured. 
In the Tektrol case, it was also observed that the word loss might have different meanings 
depending on the context. I am not persuaded this means that Ss business premises 
sustained accidental loss or damage as a result of the Governments restrictions.  
Ive also considered other cases which I think are more relevant to Ss claim, including TKC 
London Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear 
Fuels Plc [1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 
2 WLR 348. Having done so, I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to 
be a physical change or altered state to Ss property, which made it less valuable. 
Alternatively, its possible damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was 
required to remove the cause of potential damage.
Its possible that Covid-19 was present in Ss premises. However, the Governments 
guidance on cleaning in non-healthcare settings doesnt recommend any cleaning by a 
specialist. Theres no evidence of an excessive amount of Covid-19 on Ss property. And the 
presence of any particular virus doesnt automatically amount to damage. So, this section of 
the policy doesnt provide cover.
Prevention / Denial of access and Suppliers
The cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. The extensions for
prevention/denial of access and suppliers require the losses to be due to damage to property 
or premises. As I dont think Covid-19 caused damage to premises or property for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think these extensions cover Ss claim.
Disease
This extension covers business interruption or interference due to:
the occurrence of the following diseasesat the premises
The policy goes on to set out a list of diseases which doesnt include Covid-19. As Covid-19
isnt in that list, its not covered by the policy. When reaching this finding Im mindful that
Covid-19 wasnt something NIG might have known about when the policy was drafted.
However, there were policies that provided cover for all notifiable diseases. While I accept
that the list in Ss policy reflects some of the Governments list of notifiable diseases, many
other notifiable diseases also arent included and some diseases that are not notifiable are 
included (such as chickenpox and whooping cough). Ss policy does not say that it covers 
notifiable diseases and instead sets out a specified list of diseases which are covered by the 
policy.While there is nothing in the extension that specifically says any new diseases are excluded,
there is also nothing in the policy which implies that it provides cover for diseases not
included, including any new diseases which emerge. The policy says that it covers the
followingdiseases which I think indicates that it is a closed list. I dont think this extension
can fairly be read to cover any and all diseases and therefore this doesnt cover Ss claim.
Closure
This extension covers business interruption or interference as a result of:
closure of any part of the Premises  by a competent Public Authority due to 
defective drains or other sanitary arrangements, vermin or pests.
S said that its premises closed because safe social distancing couldnt be maintained and
therefore resulted in a de facto closure due to health and sanitation issues. Im not going to
make a finding on whether S was required to close because even it was, I dont think the
inability to social distance would reasonably be considered a defect in Ss sanitary
arrangements.
To reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, the case of
Brushfield, as S has specifically referred to it. This case was decided by the Irish courts so, 
as S says, this is not binding on English courts. However, I dont think the judges comments 
in Brushfield mean that Ss claim should be paid.
As S has said, the judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 266 that One can see, for example, 
how a deficiency in hygiene standards could lead to a closure order being imposed for public 
health and safety reasons. However, he went on to say in paragraph 166, A defect 
inherently involves some element of deficiency or fault. I havent seen anything to persuade 
me there was any deficiency or fault in Ss sanitary arrangements. Im not persuaded that 
the normal operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a defect specific 
to Ss premises which led to its closure.
I also I havent been provided with any evidence to persuade me that it was the
circumstances at Ss premises in particular that led to the Governments decision to
introduce the restrictions it did. For these reasons, I dont think this extension covers Ss
claim.
Other factors
Although S might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood
the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Ss policy provides cover
for its claim.
I havent seen anything to persuade me that the policy would be considered ambiguous and
I dont think it matters that Covid-19 isnt excluded as there isnt a clause in the policy that
provides cover.
I understand this isnt the outcome S was hoping for but, having considered the matter very
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require NIG to pay its claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman