DRN-1943936
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard misled him and later 
registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr J says he agreed a repayment plan with Barclaycard in 2018 in which he made agreed 
repayments of £60. He says the plan expired in 2019 and spoke to Barclaycard again. It told 
him that to avoid a default he needed to make payments of £60. Mr J says about three 
months later he received a letter telling him his account had been defaulted. He says 
Barclaycard misled him and if it had told him the correct position he would have borrowed 
money to avoid this. Mr J says the compensation offer of £50 isn't enough, and he would like 
the default removed from his credit file.
Barclaycard says it told Mr J when he called in May 2019 that a default would be registered 
on his credit file unless he made required minimum payments. It says it was clear Mr J didn't 
have any disposable income but accepts it told Mr J the payment was £60 by mistake. 
Barclaycard has apologised for that and paid £50 compensation. It says it sent three letters 
about the default to Mr J and has agreed to backdate the default to the start of the 
repayment plan in 2018.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and says he only received one letter about the default and 
didn't receive the others. Our investigator looked into the complaint and didn't uphold it and 
thought Mr J was told he needed to make minimum payments which were recorded on his 
account statements. She thought Mr J had been told a default may be registered and 
although he had been given incorrect information, he had been sent a number of default 
letters. The investigator thought the compensation fair and reasonable.
Mr J says he didn't receive the letters and didn't look at the account statements. He says the 
compensation amount is not justified and would like it increased.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Barclaycard has dealt fairly with this complaint.
I have listened to the call between the parties in May 2019 and I'm satisfied that it's clear Mr 
J was in financial difficulties with no disposable income. In those circumstances I'm satisfied 
that Barclaycard correctly told Mr J that his account would default and that information would 
be reported to the Credit Reference Agencies. I'm also satisfied that previously Barclaycard 
had tried to help Mr J by agreeing the repayment plan of £60 a month. 
I'm satisfied Barclaycard correctly told Mr J that to avoid the default that he needed to make 
the minimum monthly repayments. There is no dispute here that Mr J was then told it was £60 a month which was a mistake. I appreciate Mr J's concern and frustration in those 
circumstances to be given incorrect information. But I'm satisfied Barclaycard has fairly 
apologised for that mistake and paid what I think is a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation.
The key issue is if Mr J was entitled to rely on that information and if Barclaycard's actions 
by registering the default was reasonable in the light of that mistake.
I think Mr J ought to have realised that the minimum repayment was not £60 as that was the 
agreed repayment under the plan agreed in 2018. In any event I think Mr J ought to have 
seen from his account statements that the minimum required payment was not £60 but an 
amount over £100 and that there was no longer any reference on his account statements 
about an agreed plan as there had been between April 2018 and May 2019. I'm satisfied that 
Barclaycard sent Mr J at least three letters about the default. I appreciate Mr J says he didn't 
receive two of them but accepts receiving one of the letters in August 2019. Barclaycard isn't 
responsible for the delivery of mail but I'm satisfied the letters were correctly addressed and 
that Mr J could have contacted Barclaycard far sooner than he did which may have given 
him sufficient time to avoid the registering of the default. I don't think it clear how Mr J could 
have avoided the default due to his financial circumstances or that he has provided any 
evidence of any financial support he could have used to repay the debt even if he was given 
the correct information.
Overall I accept Mr J was given misleading information but I think he ought to have realised 
a mistake had been made. And in any event ought to have realised from the account 
statements and at least one of the letters that the minimum payment could not be £60 as 
before.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman