DRN-3041819
The complaint
Ms E complained that Loans 2 Go Limited lent to her irresponsibly and provided a loan that 
was unaffordable. She mainly said that when she applied she wasnt told how much she 
would be paying back, then the loan was paid to her and there was no way she could pay it 
at all. 
What happened
Ms E took out a loan with Loans 2 Go as follows:
Date taken Loan 
amountTerm - Monthly 
repaymentTotal payable
9/02/2020 £400 18 months £91.42 £1,645.56
The loan purpose wasnt recorded on the application. 
When Ms E complained to Loans 2 Go it said it approved the loan after carefully considering 
affordability but it did however offer to write off 50% of the interest applied (equal to around 
£622) as a gesture of goodwill.
Ms E didnt feel this offer went far enough and so she brought her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator upheld Ms Es complaint and set out directions indicating what he thought 
Loans 2 Go should do to put things right. 
Loans 2 Go disagreed with our adjudicators view. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Im upholding this complaint for broadly the same 
reasons as the adjudicator. Ill explain in more detail why I say this. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower who is 
already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
Ive kept all these things in mind and Ive thought carefully about the information Loans 2 
Go relied on when it decided to lend this loan to Ms E. 
Loans 2 Go asked Ms E about her income and expenses. As well as this, Loans 2 Go used 
an online income checker and verified that Ms Es minimum monthly pay was around 
£1,115. Loans 2 Go also took into account statistical information which gave an indication of 
the monthly expenditure someone in Ms Es financial situation would typically expect to pay 
and it did its own credit checks to understand Ms Es credit history. Having reviewed all the 
information it had gathered, it boosted the monthly expenditure figure that Ms E had 
declared and calculated that Ms E would need to spend approximately £884 in total each 
month. It also allowed for a buffer of 10% of her verified expenditure to account for any 
fluctuations in Ms Es monthly income or expenditure. Loans 2 Go was satisfied that these 
figures meant Ms E shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment on this loan. 
I think that Loans 2 Go could see from its credit check that there was some adverse credit 
history and it was evident that Ms E had faced money problems in the past. But having an 
impaired credit history wouldnt be unusual for a borrower applying for this type of expensive 
borrowing  and it wouldnt necessarily be a bar to lending if the loan otherwise looked 
affordable. There was no adverse information shown suggesting that she was affected by 
bankruptcy or in an arrangement with her creditors or that there were any active county court 
judgements.
Ive taken carefully into account everything Loans 2 Go has said in response to our 
adjudicators assessment about the way it assessed affordability. And I've thought carefully 
about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this information and in 
particular whether it was enough for Loans 2 Go to make a fair decision to lend, particularly 
as it doesnt seem to have known how she intended to use the money.
I think our adjudicator was right to think that the affordability assessment that Loans 2 
Go carried out didnt leave a sufficient safety margin. By my reckoning, Loans 2 Gos 
affordability calculation meant Ms E would have around £52 left each month after paying 
for this loan on top of everything else she was paying. 
And I think 18 months was a long enough loan term to go beyond what would be a 
reasonably foreseeable period to expect complete stability in her finances. Having so little 
surplus income meant that Ms E was at real and immediate risk of money problems if her 
income went down or her expenses increased. I dont think Loans 2 Go was reasonably able to be satisfied that Ms E would be able to 
make the loan repayments in a sustainable way over the whole loan term. I think thats borne 
out by the fact that she contacted Loans 2 Go within a couple of months of taking out the 
loan to say it wasnt affordable for her  and she effectively stopped being able to pay the 
loan when she was just six months into the 18 months loan term.
So thinking about all the information Loans 2 Go had gathered, as things stood, I dont think 
it was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Ms E. 
Our adjudicator suggested in his view letter that Loans 2 Go needed to do more checks to 
ensure the loan was sustainable before agreeing to provide it. I cant see that it did this. And 
given the likely amount of surplus income that its own affordability checks suggested that 
Ms E would have, I cant reasonably say that Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision when 
it provided this loan.  
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Loans 2 Go should pay any additional redress. Ms E 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think Loans 2 Go 
acted unfairly towards Ms E in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms E to repay the principal amount that she 
borrowed because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has had to pay interest and 
charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her.
In line with this Services approach, Ms E shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed. 
If Loans 2 Go has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then 
take the following steps. Otherwise, Loans 2 Go should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Ms E received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Ms E made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Ms E having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans2Go should attempt to arrange 
an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms E.
whilst its fair that Ms Es credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. So 
Loans 2 Go should remove any negative information recorded on Ms Es credit file 
regarding this loan 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to deduct tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
should give Ms E a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct Loans 2 Go Limited to take the steps I've set out above to 
put things right for Ms E. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman