DRN-3016451
The complaint
Mr E complains Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd (Vanguard) have failed to clearly explain 
how the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) protects his funds held in a 
stocks and shares ISA with them.
What happened
Mr E contacted Vanguard in January 2021 asking them to confirm if stocks and shares ISAs 
are amongst the types of investments covered by the FSCS. He also asked for clarity as to 
what amount was protected and what constituted an eligible claim.
Vanguard said their clients were covered by the FSCS should they be unable to meet their 
financial obligations. They went on to confirm ISAs are covered and Mr E would be protected 
up to a maximum of 100% of £85,000 of the funds held with them.
After Mr E asked for further clarification of what up to £85,000 meant, Vanguard said the 
FSCS would cover the value of your account or any money that would be lost and eligible for 
a claim, and the maximum the scheme would reimburse would be £85,000.
Mr E remained unhappy with the explanation hed been given so he raised a complaint. He 
wanted to know if all his money up to £85,000 is covered and wanted an explanation as to 
what constituted an eligible claim. He also asked Vanguard to direct him to their published 
information about the FSCS protection.
Vanguard investigated but didnt uphold Mr Es complaint saying they felt theyd answered 
his questions about how his assets were protected. Vanguard apologised to Mr E that he felt 
theyd been vague but explained again the FSCS would cover the shortfall up to a maximum 
of £85,000 should they become insolvent and his funds could not be recovered.
Vanguard further explained certain conditions need to be met in order to be eligible to claim 
compensation with the FSCS, directing Mr E to the FSCS website where those conditions 
are set out.
Mr E remained dissatisfied, so he referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things but thought Vanguard had acted reasonably by explaining 
the compensation limits using the FSCS wording and directing Mr E to the FSCS website 
for further information.
Our investigator also said hed seen in communication between Mr E and the FSCS, that 
theyd advised him to check with Vanguard that his ISA is covered by the protection and that 
they couldnt confirm eligibility to claim in advance of a firms failure. Our investigator said he 
could see Vanguard had confirmed his ISA was protected and that as Vanguard didnt 
operate the scheme, they could only provide the wording set out by the FSCS.
Mr E didnt agree with our investigator saying Vanguard hadnt confirmed his ISA was 
protected, only that a maximum of £85,000 would be covered, which could mean that only a 
penny of an investors money is protected. He was also unhappy our investigator hadnt 
commented on Vanguards failure to direct him to their published information about the 
protection.
Our investigator said as claims were assessed by the FSCS, he didnt think Vanguard were 
in a position to confirm exactly how much of a customers money was protected. He also 
said as Vanguard dont operate the scheme, he could see on Vanguards website, they 
direct consumers to the FSCS website which he could see Vanguard had provided Mr E a 
link to.
As Mr E remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Mr E, Im not upholding his 
complaint and for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen Mr E initially spoke directly with the FSCS and they advised him that they are 
unable to guarantee specific products are protected. They said he should contact the 
product provider, in this case Vanguard, or and IFA to confirm this.
The FSCS went onto say We are unable to confirm eligibility in advance of a firms failure. 
We can only properly consider eligibility at the point of default and come to a decision after a 
full investigation of the firm, and your circumstances and reasons for claim.
Ive looked closely at the responses Vanguard gave after Mr E then contacted them and Im 
satisfied they acted fairly and reasonably by providing the information they did.
Vanguard confirmed their clients are covered by the FSCS, further confirming that 
specifically ISAs are covered, up to a maximum of 100% of £85,000. They also confirmed 
the FSCS would cover the value of Mr Es account or any money that would be lost and 
eligible for a claim up to a maximum of £85,000. I understand Mr E wants to know the exact 
amount of his funds that would be covered  but that just isnt possible for Vanguard to say.
The FSCS say themselves We may be able to compensate you if youve a protected claim 
against a firm that has failed  up to £85,000 per eligible person per firm. Vanguard arent 
responsible for running the scheme and as a claim can only be assessed after a firms 
failure, by default Vanguard wouldnt be involved in any potential claim. The FSCS have 
confirmed this by saying they are unable to confirm eligibility in advance of a firms failure.
Mr E says Vanguard not being able to confirm exactly how much of his money is protected 
contradicts what the FSCS has told him, but I dont agree. The FSCS said Your product 
provider should be able to confirm whether you are eligible for FSCS protection and whether 
the investment itself is protected as they will understand the specific investment. And I can 
see that Vanguard did this.
I understand Mr Es frustration he wasnt directed to the information published on Vanguards 
website. I can see he asked for this from the start. But whilst they didnt direct him to their 
website, I can see Vanguard provided the wording from it within their responses to Mr E and 
included a link to the FSCS website where further information could be found.
In summary, Im satisfied Vanguard acted fairly and reasonably providing information about 
a scheme run by a third-party. And they answered the questions the FSCS advised Mr E he 
should put to Vanguard as the product provider. So, I wont be asking Vanguard to do 
anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Vanguard Asset Management, 
Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman