DRN-2892364
The complaint
Mr C says his previous adviser at Chiltern House Limited (CHL) misconducted himself, with 
a conflict of interests, in discussions involving his pension arrangements in late 2015 and up 
to the conclusion of specific legal proceedings (the proceedings) around early 2017. The 
proceedings involved the same (his pension arrangements), and involved a separate 
pension arrangement (SPA). He says the adviser failed to disclose Cash Equivalent 
Transfer Value (CETV) information about the SPA in 2016  and/or failed, previously, to 
advise him to seek such information  and that the CETV information would have reduced 
his financial liability in the proceedings. He holds CHL responsible for this and seeks 
compensation for financial loss.
What happened
The proceedings and the facts related to them were/are of a confidential nature, so this 
decision will not present their details. Such details might potentially breach Mr Cs privacy 
and/or anonymity. It is enough to summarise as follows:
Mr C confirms that the SPA was discussed with CHL in 2015. Based on his 
understanding of it at the time, they did not consider it worthwhile to obtain its CETV.
Thereafter, around late 2016, he says he learnt that his understanding about the SPA 
was wrong. 
He says information about the CETV would have been very relevant to the 
proceedings; that such information would have reduced his financial liability within 
the proceedings; that CHL had identified the CETV earlier in 2016 (around spring) 
but did not share that information with him as it was obliged to; and that this amounts 
to a failure of duty on its part and a suggestion that it attempted to conceal the 
information. He also says that, as his adviser, CHL should have recommended (as a 
matter of course, during the 2015 discussions) that he obtain the CETV at the outset, 
irrespective of his belief at the time that it was not worthwhile to do so. 
CHL disputes the complaint. It says the SPA was discussed in a September 2015 meeting 
with all parties connected to it and to the proceedings; that its relevance to the proceedings 
was dismissed by Mr C at the time; that identification of its CETV around six months 
thereafter was not initiated by CHL, it was an instructed task and CHL executed the 
instruction; that in the absence of instructions, CHL had neither authority nor discretion to 
disclose the CETV to Mr C or to update him on any events related to the SPA in 2016; that it 
was never under such instructions, so it was never obliged to provide him with such 
disclosure and/or update; that other than acting upon instructions, CHL had no further 
involvement in the proceedings.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and agreed with CHLs position. He 
concluded that the complaint should not be upheld, for reasons that broadly echoed the 
points made by CHL. Mr C disagreed with this outcome and asked for a review. He 
maintains that CHL mismanaged its conflict of interests in the matter  that is, its service to 
his interests and its service to separate (but also connected) set of interests related to the 
SPA  and that it did so to his detriment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not seen evidence of the mismanaged conflict of interests that Mr C alleges. Broadly 
speaking, evidence of a firm conducting itself with a conflict of interests does not always  on 
its own  automatically establish a wrongdoing. In the present case, the different interests in 
the proceedings and in the SPA were transparent to all parties and the same applies to 
CHLs roles in this context. As a result of, and during, the proceedings its service to the 
interested parties was split. This was not previously the case. 
Overall, it appears that despite this split, Mr C continued to expect the same (or close to the 
same) service from CHL as had previously been delivered. The facts show that, in relation to 
the SPA, there was no reasonable basis for such an expectation. Subsequent to the service 
split Mr C no longer had access to the SPA, and CHL no longer had the authority or 
discretion to discuss, on its own initiation (and without instruction), the SPA with him. I have 
not seen evidence of an instruction(s) to CHL, after the service split, that allowed such 
authority/discretion.
It is not disputed that the SPA was discussed with Mr C in 2015 and that he did not seek 
information about its CETV at the time. I understand his argument that CHL ought to have 
advised him to do so. However, as he is aware, the discussion happened prior to the service 
split and at a time when CHLs service was not exclusive to him. The idea of verifying the 
CETV for his interest only was not as straightforward as he suggests. It would have required 
balancing, by CHL, of his interests with those of others. I have not seen evidence that CHL 
had cause to doubt the understanding he expressed at the time about the SPAs value not 
being worthy of consideration. I also have not seen evidence that such cause was, or ought 
to have been, prompted by other factors at the time. 
On balance, in the above context, in the absence of a request for verification of the CETV 
and mindful of the balance within CHLs service at the time, it was not unreasonable for it to 
have agreed with the understanding that the SPAs value was not worth considering. 
Presented with different circumstances, I could reach a different conclusion, but in the 
present case I am not persuaded that CHL should have advised on the need to verify the 
SPAs CETV in 2015. I consider that this finding also addresses Mr Cs assertion that CHL 
mismanaged conflicted interests. In 2015 this was arguably non-existent because all 
relevant interests were combined at the time and were yet to be separated. Instead, the 
main point, as I have considered above, is that CHL had no cause or call to recommend 
verification of the CETV at the time. 
Thereafter, when CHL became aware of the SPAs CETV in 2016, the basis for its service 
provision had changed. Mr C was not in a position, at the time, to expect this information to 
be offered to him or shared with him (upon his request) without third-party authorisation  
and such authorisation was never given. The notion of conflict of interest was more relevant 
at this time because CHL was servicing his interests separately to others, but the SPA 
arguably remained a factor common to all interests. I have considered whether (or not) CHL 
mismanaged its position in this respect. Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded that it 
did.
As I mentioned above, the service split and separation of interests was transparent to all 
concerned. In the absence of evidence of protests or complaints at the time, it appears to 
have been agreed by all concerned. Where the proceedings and the SPA sat in this context would also have been transparent and obvious to all concerned. As CHL says, other than 
acting upon instructions it had no further role in the proceedings. Whilst it was his financial 
adviser, it was not Mr Cs legal adviser, so it had no role in pursuing his interests in the 
proceedings. As he is aware, the relevance of and need for the CETV information arose 
mainly from within the proceedings  it was not an isolated and distinct matter of financial 
advice. 
Overall and on balance, I do not consider that a mismanagement by CHL of conflicted 
interests has been established in this case. It did not unduly compromise its duty towards  
Mr Cs interests for the benefit of others (or for its benefit). Instead, it appears to be the case 
that it did not  and could not  compromise, for his benefit, its duty towards others and their 
interests. I accept that CHLs disclosure of the CETV to Mr C in 2016 would have been to his 
benefit (and, he could say, in his interest) but, I repeat, he no longer had access to the SPA 
in the way he previously did, so the SPA did not sit within CHLs service to him as it 
previously did. This meant the SPA also did not sit within any service based duty CHL owed 
him. Instead the SPA sat firmly within CHLs service and duty to others. Mr C is aware of this 
and of the facts that confirm this. CHL would have been in breach of that separate duty to 
others if it disclosed the CETV to him without authorisation. As I have said, there was never 
any such authorisation. Mr Cs case against CHL, for his interest in the matter, cannot 
reasonably be justified in this scenario.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman