DRN-2657078
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) admitted liability for an 
accident when she claimed on her car insurance policy. Shes also complained about the 
handling of her claim. 
Mrs Bs husband has also brought this complaint to us as he was the driver involved in the 
accident and is a named driver on her policy. For ease of reading Ive referred to Mrs B in 
some areas rather than Mr B.   
What happened
Mr B was involved in an accident with a third party. Mrs B contacted RSA to report the claim. 
RSA initially didnt log the claim and a few days later Mrs B received a letter from the third 
partys insurer holding her responsible for the accident. 
RSA looked into the claim and was provided dash cam footage from the third party. As the 
footage showed Mr B cutting into the third partys lane and colliding with their car RSA didnt 
think it was a claim it could defend and admitted liability. Mrs B didnt agree and complained. 
RSA reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it, because of this Mrs B referred her 
complaint here. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and recommended it was partly upheld. She found 
that RSA had made an error in not recording the claim when Mrs B first reported it and took 
too long to respond to the third partys insurer once it had received the dash cam footage. 
Because of this she recommended RSA pay £125 for distress and inconvenience. When our 
investigator reviewed the dash cam footage, she thought RSA has acted reasonably in 
admitting liability for the accident. 
RSA accepted our investigators findings and paid Mrs B £125 compensation. Mrs B didnt 
agree, she said shed reviewed the circumstances of the accident and didnt think it showed 
Mr B was at fault. 
As Mrs B didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its usual for insurance policies to allow insurers to take over and settle claims as it sees fit. 
That means RSA might make a decision Mrs B disagrees with and not try to recover its 
outlay or settle a claim from the third party or their insurer. But wed look at whether RSA 
made a reasonable decision in doing this, based on the evidence it had and the 
circumstances of the case.
RSA said its based its decision on the dash cam footage from the third party. Ive reviewed 
the dash cam footage and it shows Mrs Bs car almost colliding with the front of the third 
partys as Mr B tries to enter the right-hand lane. The third party and Mr B both stop to avoid 
a collision. The third party then appears to drive on and Mr B cuts in front of the third partys 
car. From reviewing the dash cam footage Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly and reasonably 
when deciding to admit liability for the accident. 
Ive also reviewed Mrs Bs comments about the incident and understand that she doesnt 
think RSA has acted fairly when admitting liability. I understand her and Mr B feel strongly 
about this incident, but for the reasons Ive given above Im not persuaded RSA has acted 
unreasonably when deciding liability. 
In regard to the poor claim handling, as RSA and Mrs B agreed with our investigators 
recommendation, and RSA has paid the compensation, Im not going to comment on it 
further here.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I partly uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mrs B £125 if it hasnt already done so.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman