DRN-2847259
The complaint
Mr K complains about the interest being charged on his finance agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited.
What happened
In September 2020 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with 
BMWFS.
Prior to entering into the agreement, Mr K asked BMWS for information about how interest 
was calculated, and in particular, whether interest was charged on the optional final 
payment.
BMWFS told Mr K that it couldnt provide information until he had an active finance 
agreement.
After Mr K had entered into a finance agreement, he asked BMWFS the same questions 
about interest. BMWFS told Mr K that he shouldve raised any queried regarding interest 
before hed entered into the agreement.
Mr K complained to BMWFS about the service hed received when hed asked for 
information. He also complained that he was being charged interest on the optional final 
payment, which he said shouldnt be taken into consideration when the interest was 
calculated for the total amount borrowed.
In response, BMWFS said it didnt agree that interest shouldnt be charged on the optional 
final payment. It said Mr K had been provided with information at the point of supply and that 
hed had the opportunity to raise any questions before entering into the agreement.
Mr K wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator thought that BMWFSW couldve provided better customer service and 
provided the information that Mr K had asked for before he entered into the agreement. He 
said BMWFS should pay £50 compensation for this. In relation to the interest point, the 
investigator said there hadnt been an error in the way the personal contract purchase 
agreement had been set up and that the interest payable had been set out clearly.
Mr K didnt agree that £50 was reasonable compensation. He also said he wanted to see the 
accounting rules which allowed BMWFS to calculate interest on the optional final payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the correspondence between Mr K and BMWFS and I can see that Mr K asked 
for information about how interest was charged before he entered into the agreement. 
BMWFS said it couldnt provide the information until Mr K had a live agreement, which I think 
was both unlikely (as Mr Ks question was a generic as opposed to an agreement specific 
one) and unhelpful. After Mr K entered into the agreement and asked the same question 
again, BMWFS told him he should have asked the questions before entering into the 
agreement.
I appreciate how frustrating this mustve been for Mr K, as hed done what BMWFS advised 
him to do. I dont think BMWFS responded to Mr Ks request for information in a reasonable 
way. The level of customer service provided fell below what a reasonable person would 
expect. I think its fair to ask BMWFS to pay compensation for poor customer service and the 
trouble and upset caused to Mr K as a result.
Ive thought about whether Mr K would have done anything differently if hed been provided 
with the information he asked for before entering into the agreement. On balance, I dont 
think it would have changed anything, because its clear from what hes said that Mr K was 
already aware that interest was going to be charged on the optional final payment but that he 
didnt agree with this.
In relation to Mr Ks specific complaint about interest being charged on the optional final 
payment, Ive reviewed the agreement and I can see that the cash price of the car was 
£36,123. Mr K paid a deposit of £10,000, leaving the sum of £26,123 to be financed by 
BMWFS. The sum of £26,123 is the sum which is being borrowed by Mr K, irrespective of 
whether he hands the car back at the end of the agreement or decides to pay the optional 
final payment to purchase the car.
Based on what Ive seen here, Im unable to say that Mr Ks car finance agreement is any 
different to any other personal contract purchase agreement Ive seen, insofar as interest is 
charged on the purchase price of the car. The agreement clearly sets out how much interest 
is being charged and at what rate. If Mr K wasnt happy to enter into the agreement, he didnt 
have to. Theres no suggestion that he was put under any duress. I dont think BMWFS has 
done anything wrong here because the agreement is clear on how interest is charged.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold the complaint in relation to the customer service 
point. BMW Financial Services GB Limited must pay compensation of £50 to Mr K. I wont be 
asking BMWFS to do anything about the other aspect of Mr Ks complaint for the reasons 
Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman