DRN-2567626
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Barclaycard issued Mrs H a credit card with an initial limit of £400 in August 2018. 
Barclaycard later proposed to increase the limit and as Mrs H did not opt out the limit was 
increased to £800 in June 2019. 
The following month, Mrs H exceeded the new credit limit. She was experiencing financial 
difficulties and a repayment plan was agreed with Barclaycard in November 2019. 
Barclaycard also terminated the account and a default notice was sent to Mrs H in 
December 2019. As Mrs H couldnt pay the outstanding balance, the account was defaulted. 
Mrs H made her complaint to Barclaycard in February 2020. Mrs H said she already had 
many payday loans at the time the card was issued and had taken out more before the credit 
limit increase. Therefore, she thinks Barclaycard lent to her irresponsibly.
 
Barclaycard did not uphold the complaint. They felt that the creditworthiness assessment 
had been robustly carried out when the account was approved and continually assessed. 
They say this was to ensure, so far as possible, that the credit extended was affordable. 
The investigator found Barclaycard had irresponsibly increased the credit limit. He didnt 
think Barclaycard had carried out proportionate checks based on the information they had 
about Mrs Hs income and how she had managed her account. In his view, proportionate 
checks would have shown the limit increase wasnt affordable. To put things right he 
recommended that Barclaycard, in relation to the credit limit increase, refund interest and 
charges applied to the account and remove adverse information recorded on Mrs Hs credit 
file. Mrs H accepted the view but Barclaycard did not. Therefore, the complaint has passed 
to me. 
I recently issued my provisional decision setting out why I wasnt intending to uphold Mrs Hs 
complaint. I said: 
When Barclaycard issued the credit card and increased Mrs Hs credit limit, they 
needed to ensure they took into account rules and guidance issued by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The relevant rules are set out in the Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCA Handbook and require lenders to 
undertake a reasonable creditworthiness assessment. 
Briefly, a lender needs to carry out proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is 
affordable. They should consider the customers ability to repay the maximum 
amount of credit available within a reasonable time. Generally, what is proportionate 
depends on several factors including the consumers current situation and if there are 
any indicators of financial difficulties. 
Issuing the card
Barclaycard have provided information about the checks they carried out. They got 
information about Mrs Hs income and expenditure and calculated Mrs Hs monthly 
disposable income. They also obtained a credit check which showed her payments 
towards recorded debt were up to date for the six months leading up to the credit 
card being issued. 
I note the credit check shows Mrs H had an overdraft balance. Barclaycard say it was 
not part of their process to take into consideration overdrafts and the check was 
therefore correct. Whilst I appreciate Barclaycard complied with their own process at 
the time, I would have expected the overdraft to have been considered as it was 
ongoing credit which Mrs H would have had to repay at some point. 
This requires careful thought about whether taking the overdraft into consideration 
would have changed Barclaycards decision to issue a card to Mrs H. I can see, 
though, that by the time of the credit limit increase the following year, Mrs Hs 
overdraft was a factor considered by Barclaycard. I think its reasonable to say that in 
this respect, Barclaycard would have taken a similar stance when issuing the card as 
it did when offering the increased limit. So its important that I now look at the way 
Barclaycard treated this information as part of the later lending activity.
Limit increase
Barclaycard say they decided the increase from £400 to £800 was affordable based 
on how Mrs H managed her account and information obtained from a credit reference 
agency. I have reviewed Mrs Hs credit card statements leading up to the increase. I 
can see that Mrs H met the minimum repayments and on occasion paid more. I also 
note she did not reach or exceed her credit limit. I cant see there were any indicators 
in how Mrs H managed her account which might have told Barclaycard Mrs H was in 
financial difficulties or that the increase was unaffordable. 
Barclaycard have also provided the credit check which they carried out before the 
increase in June 2019. The credit reference agency provided Barclaycard with a 
rating regarding Mrs Hs income and her affordability in relation to her current credit 
limit and incremental increases. This rating reflected various factors including Mrs Hs 
current account balance and I can see the overdraft was taken into consideration. 
The information indicated the increase was affordable based on Mrs Hs monthly 
disposable income. Barclaycard also calculated Mrs Hs chance of defaulting within 
the following 12 months to be within their lending threshold. 
Mrs H has provided her current account statements and credit file. I can see from this 
that she utilised payday loans. For example, she took out three payday loans in May 
2019. However, her current account wasnt with Barclaycard and a proportionate 
check would not necessarily have gone into this level of detail. The information provided by the credit reference agency broadly reflected Mrs Hs obligations to 
repay unsecured debt but didnt indicate the increase was unaffordable. It seems the 
payday loans taken out in May 2019 were too recent to have shown up on an 
assessment Barclaycard undertook in June. So there was no apparent reason for 
Barclaycard to have concerns over Mrs Hs ability to afford the increase, or to seek 
further information about her financial position.
The increase did enable Mrs H to increase her level of debt and I appreciate her 
distressing financial situation. However, Barclaycard proportionately considered 
information they had and data provided from a credit reference agency which didnt 
highlight any indicators of financial difficulties. I am persuaded Barclaycard did 
enough here to get a reasonable understanding of whether the increase was 
sustainable and that the decision to offer it wasnt irresponsible. It also follows that 
Ive reached the same conclusion about their initial lending decision. 
Barclaycard have told us that they were notified about Mrs Hs financial situation in 
November 2019. They agreed a repayment plan, didnt charge further interest or fees 
and terminated the account. Barclaycard also sent a default notice and Mrs Hs 
account was then defaulted. From this, I am satisfied Barclaycard dealt with the 
account proactively once they understood Mrs H was in financial difficulties. I 
wouldnt expect Barclaycard to have done more here. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs H responded to say she was disappointed with the decision. Mrs H also said the lending 
clearly wasnt affordable as she was put on a debt management plan and this was not long 
after Barclaycard increased her credit limit without asking. Also, Barclaycard sent a short 
reply explaining they had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the additional borrowing contributed to Mrs Hs financial problems. I also 
recognise that had exhaustive checks been carried out then the decision about the 
affordability of the lending mightve been different. 
However, Barclaycard were required to undertake proportionate checks. I explained in my 
provisional decision what checks were undertaken at the time of the increase and why I felt 
they were proportionate based on the information Barclaycard had at the time. Based on 
what Ive seen, Im not persuaded the debt management plan means the checks werent 
proportionately carried out or Barclaycard lent irresponsibly. 
Additionally, in my provisional decision I said that Barclaycard had proposed the limit 
increase and Mrs H hadnt opted out. Ive not seen a copy of the actual letter but Ive seen a 
sample and Barclaycards diary log showing it was sent in May 2020. Therefore, Im 
persuaded it was sent. I note Barclaycard didnt ask for Mrs Hs explicit agreement. 
However, they notified her of their intention to increase the credit limit and gave her the 
opportunity to opt out. Therefore, Barclaycard gave Mrs H appropriate notice before 
increasing the limit in June 2020. 
 
Having reviewed the matter, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my 
provisional decision and Im satisfied Barclaycard lent to Mrs H responsibly. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman