DRN-3840563
The complaint
Mr C complains that Skipton Building Society have lost the funds he held in a book account 
in 2010.
What happened
Mr C possesses a Skipton book account which shows a balance of £3,766.54 as at October 
2010.
In April 2022, Mr C visited a Skipton branch and, when he showed his book account, he was 
informed that the account had been closed in October 2011. 
Mr C doesnt believe this to be the case. This is because it is a book operated account and 
he has the original book showing it was never closed. So, he thinks Skipton have lost the 
records and data for his money and account.
Skipton explained the account could be operated without the book and their investigation 
showed the account had been closed.
Mr C complained to our service. Mr C requested Skipton pay him £5,297.87 which is his 
account balance plus interest and he later revised this to £10,000 to include inflation.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint, and as Mr C remains dissatisfied this case 
has been referred to me to look at.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, for the following reasons, Im in agreement with the investigator and Im not 
upholding this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr C will be both disappointed and frustrated as he believes Skipton have 
lost his money. Although Mr Cs passbook shows a credit balance, I must bear in mind that 
account passbooks dont have to be presented or filled-in for either deposits or withdrawals. 
Also, it doesnt mean the account is still open. And, having reviewed Skiptons records I 
found these a more reliable form of evidence.
Regarding Skiptons inability to confirm how the account was closed and what happened to 
the funds, they no longer have records and arent required to retain such information. And, 
given the passage of time, I dont think thats unreasonable.
So, I think the most likely scenario here is that described by the investigator - that the money 
in the account was withdrawn or transferred on or before 5 October 2011 by the party or 
parties entitled to do so.
I do recognise that this decision will disappoint Mr C, however there is insufficient evidence 
to allow me to safely conclude that Skipton have his money and there were no withdrawals 
since the 2010 passbook entry. So, Im unable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman