DRN-4210055
The complaint
Mr S complains that Quilter Financial Services Ltd delayed in providing him advice on 
purchasing an annuity which led to him missing out on a preferential annuity income.
What happened
Mr S was a client of Quilters who managed several of his investments including those held 
in pension and investment accounts. 
On 10 May 2021 Mr S met with his adviser from Quilter - who I will refer to as Adviser L  for 
a financial review meeting. A fact-find was completed at that time which, amongst other 
things, noted Mr S had a personal pension with Aegon (which had a guaranteed annuity 
rate) and an AVC with Prudential.
Mr S says that as he was approaching his 60th Birthday later that year, hed asked Adviser L 
for his advice on what he should do with his Aegon and Prudential pensions.
Quilter sent Mr S an email on 11 May 2021 asking him to sign a letter of authority (LOA) so 
that Quilter could access information about his Aegon policy.
Mr S says he signed and returned the Aegon LOA on 26 May 2021. He says he also 
provided a second copy on 17 June 2021 which was then forwarded on to Aegon by Quilter.
Aegon wrote to Mr S on 29 June 2021 providing illustrations of what his fund could be worth, 
and the annuity it could buy, at ages 65 and 70.
Aegon wrote to Quilter on 30 June 2021. It gave a fund value of £36,424.92 and suggested 
that if the guaranteed annuity option was taken at age 60 it would provide Mr S an income of 
£3,314.67 per year.
Mr S said that over the following months he chased Adviser L for advice regarding the 
Aegon pension, but he never received any advice. Mr S sent us several emails which he 
sent to Adviser L in 2021. Ive summarised a timeline below;
6 Jul 2021  Mr S asked Adviser L if hed received information on the Aegon and 
Prudential plans and if he had any ideas on what to do with these funds.
27 August 2021  Mr S asked if there was any news on my AVCS & Aegon pots
1 September 2021  Quilter responded to Mr S saying theyd received the 
information from Aegon and Prudential. However, Adviser L had been away in 
meetings and was away the following week. They said Adviser L would be in touch 
once he has a moment to look at it.
22 September 2021  Mr S emailed Adviser L to ask if there was any news?.
5 October 2021  Mr S emailed Adviser L to ask are you ok? Not heard anything 
from you?. Adviser L replied saying hed review what was received from the pension 
providers and call tomorrow. Mr S said he was unavailable that day.
2 November 2021  replying to the earlier email thread Mr S asked Adviser L Did 
you get time or date to call?
Adviser L later resigned from Quilter and Mr S was passed on to a new Adviser  Adviser C 
 in late 2021.
Mr S says he met with Adviser C in early 2022 and asked about his Aegon pension. He said 
Adviser C suggested the guaranteed annuity rates meant it was a clear choice to accept the 
annuity. So, Mr S contacted Aegon to proceed with the annuity purchase.
Mr S says Aegon sent a new illustration showing his fund had dropped significantly to 
around £26,000 and the annuity he could have received was only £2,426.74.
Mr S complained to Quilter in May 2022 as he was unhappy it took them so long to provide 
any information on his Aegon plan and their lack of action once the information was 
received. He said hed started discussing the pension long before his 60th birthday but 
because of the delays hed missed out on annuity payments and his fund had lost value and 
was unable to provide him that same annuity.
In response, Quilter said theyd spoken to Adviser L and got his testimony. He said hed had 
a discussion with Mr S about taking an annuity after the information was received from 
Aegon. But Mr S hadnt expressed any interest in taking out an annuity and was, in fact, 
against the idea.
Quilter went on to say, when Mr S met with Adviser C in January 2022, he raised the issue 
of getting an annuity through Aegon again. When Adviser C looked into this, a revised 
illustration was sent on 13 May 2022 with the reduced fund value leading to Mr Ss 
complaint.
Quilter said they werent Mr Ss servicing agent on his Aegon plan  theyd only been given 
authority to receive information about it. And Mr S wasnt prevented from contacting Aegon 
directly to obtain details of his benefits.
They said their advisers testimony demonstrated Mr S wasnt intending on taking an annuity 
at the time, but the guaranteed rates are available until Mr S reaches the age of 75, so it 
hadnt been lost. However, they acknowledged there was a delay in providing the 
information they received from Aegon to Mr S. So, they offered £300 for the trouble and 
upset that caused.
Mr S remained unhappy with Quilters response and so brought his complaint to our Service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and concluded that Quilter should have provided Mr S 
with a recommendation to set up his annuity by his 60th Birthday. To put things right, as 
Mr S is yet to purchase the available annuity, he suggested allowing Mr S 30 days to 
purchase the annuity. He then asked that Quilter assess Mr Ss past losses and set up an 
annuity for him to compensate him for any future losses.
Quilter disagreed with our investigator. In summary they said Mr S lived abroad and they 
could only provide him advice while he was in the country, so they werent certain advice 
could have been given by his 60th birthday. They went on to say there was no clear 
evidence that Mr S wanted an annuity or reason why our investigator should prefer Mr Ss 
testimony over that of their adviser. There was also no fee agreement in place to offer any 
advice on the Aegon plan and Mr S still hadnt taken the annuity.As Quilter disagreed, the complaint was passed to me. I sent Quilter and Mr S my 
provisional decision. Ive copied the relevant part of my provisional findings below. 
My Provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
I wasnt present at the meetings between Mr S and Quilter in 2021. So, in reaching a 
decision I have to consider the evidence available, the rules and any industry best practice in 
place at the time. There are times, as is the case here, where evidence is conflicting. In such 
cases I have to weigh the evidence that is available and decide, on a balance of 
probabilities, what I think happened.
Quilter say that no fee agreement had been reached to provide advice on the Aegon pension 
and they werent the servicing agent on the Aegon policy. However, following the meeting in 
May 2021 Quilter asked for an LOA from Mr S and requested information about the Aegon 
policy. I see no reason to request this information if Adviser L hadnt agreed to look into what 
options were available to Mr S with his Aegon pension during the meeting the previous day.
I appreciate Quilters comments that no fee agreement had been reached for this advice and 
they werent the servicing agent on the Aegon policy. However, I dont find that surprising at 
the information gathering stage of the advice process. As Mr S points out, Quilter were 
managing a large number of his other investments for which he was paying for on-going 
advice from Quilter. So, I think it was understandable that Mr S thought his adviser would be 
able to give him an indication on what was the best course of action for his Aegon plan.
If Adviser L was unwilling or unable to provide any advice on the Aegon plan, I would have 
expected to see him clearly say that to Mr S. And he didnt. I think, on balance, if Adviser L 
received the information from Aegon and thought it best for Mr S to transfer his Aegon 
pension into his Quilter investments, then an agreement over fees would have been agreed 
at that point.
Ive also seen that Mr S sent Adviser L an email on 25 May 2021. He said Just wondering if 
you have had any more info on my Aegon & Prudential AVC regarding what to do with 
them? Take 25% tax free? Move them? I look forward to your advice. This email adds 
weight to Mr Ss testimony that, as a result of his meeting, he was expecting advice from 
Adviser L on his Aegon pension.
Considering the communications Ive seen and the circumstances of the case, Im satisfied 
that, on balance, its likely Adviser L agreed to advise Mr S on what to do with his Aegon 
pension despite there being no written fee agreement at that point. I think the evidence also 
supports that at that time Mr S hadnt made up his mind what to do with the Aegon pension 
and was waiting for an input from Adviser L before making a decision.
Quilter say their adviser spoke to Mr S about buying an annuity with his Aegon plan, and 
they say that happened after information was received in June 2021. But Quilter say Mr S 
was unwilling to purchase an annuity at that time.
Mr Ss testimony directly conflicts with Quilter as he says he was constantly chasing 
Adviser L for advice which he never received.
The evidence Ive seen demonstrates Mr S chased Adviser L on several occasions between 
July and November to talk about the Aegon plan. I think its unlikely he would have done that 
had he already told Aegons adviser that he didnt want to take the benefits from the Aegon 
plan. The emails are consistent with Mr Ss testimony.Ive then considered what evidence there is to add weight to Adviser Ls testimony. He says, 
I certainly remember two Zoom meetings and a meeting at a house. Theres evidence on 
the file from March 2021 of an appointment co-ordinator from Quilter emailing Mr S details 
of the meeting on 10 May 2021 including details on how to access the online video call.
Ive seen no such evidence of any meetings between Quilter and Mr S following the May 
2021 meeting. I also havent seen any call notes or other written record that adds any 
additional weight to Adviser Ls testimony that these meetings occurred. Had the meeting 
occurred I would have expected to see a written record of it, or at least a record of the 
invitation to an online call similar to the email Ive seen from March 2021.
As Ive said, where testimonies conflict, I base my decision on the available evidence. And in 
this case the evidence Ive seen adds more weight to Mr Ss testimony that he was chasing 
Adviser L to discuss his Aegon plan. Therefore, on balance, Im not satisfied Mr S told 
Adviser L after May 2021 that he didnt want an annuity from Aegon. Im more persuaded 
that during that time Mr S received no advice or opinion from Adviser L. But he was waiting, 
and chasing, for him to do so.
Ive considered what Adviser L would have likely said to Mr S if he had given his view on the 
Aegon plan.
In his testimony Adviser L says Mr S was adamant he didnt want an annuity so if hed been 
able to complete the advice it would have been to transfer his Aegon plan to Quilter. 
However, it isnt the advisers role to simply enact what he thinks his client wants. He needed 
to act in his clients best interests and recommend what he thought was the most suitable 
option.
In his testimony Adviser L went on to say, I would have preferred the client to have taken 
the annuity, as I believe in such circumstances clients should take guaranteed incomes, 
when available, to cover essential expenditure. I therefore think its likely, if Adviser L was 
acting in Mr Ss best interest, he would have suggested taking the annuity offered. And as 
Ive already explained, Im satisfied Mr S was seeking Adviser Ls opinion and was likely to 
accept his recommendation.
Quilter questioned why Mr S would have wanted an income. But the evidence also supports 
his requirement for additional income. The fact-find conducted by Adviser L in May 2021 
recorded that, due to Covid, Mr S and his wifes income had reduced by around £50,000 to 
£60,000. And Mr S had taken on some consultancy work one day a week to try and make up 
some of the loss. It also recorded that if things didnt improve, they may have to look at 
renting out one of their other properties to mitigate their losses. So, I think there is some 
evidence that supports Mr Ss need for additional income at the time.
The evidence shows that when Mr S eventually spoke to an adviser from Quilter in January 
2022, he decided to take the annuity. I therefore think a reasonable conclusion is that had he 
spoken to an adviser from Quilter earlier, he would have taken the same course of action. 
But it was Adviser Ls lack of communication that meant Mr S delayed in purchasing his 
annuity. And so, a fair outcome would be for Quilter to compensate Mr S for any losses hes 
suffered for their delay in speaking to him about his Aegon plan.
I then need to consider when its likely Mr S would have purchased his annuity. Its Mr Ss 
testimony that he wanted to take the benefits on his 60th birthday in late July 2021. The 
evidence shows its likely Mr S started to ask Quilter about his Aegon pension in May 2021. 
And Quilter were sent the illustration  using a retirement age of 60  on 30 June. Mr S also 
chased Quilter on 6 July before his birthday. So, I think its reasonable to conclude Quilter 
could have spoken to Mr S about his Aegon pension prior to his 60th birthday later that month.
Quilter have questioned whether Mr S would have been in the country for Adviser L to have 
provided advice before his birthday. However, in all of the correspondence Ive seen from 
Adviser L where he says he will call Mr S, he didnt ever ask Mr S whether he was in the 
country or not. I dont see why Quilter would have asked Mr S for a LOA to obtain 
information from Aegon if it didnt think it would be able to provide him with a 
recommendation for some reason. So, I think its likely that had Mr S been given the chance 
to receive advice from Quilter prior to his 60th birthday that could have been achieved.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr S accepted my provisional decision and made no further submissions for me to consider. 
Quilter responded to my provisional decision raising several points. In summary they said:
Mr Ss annuity was payable annually in arrears, so the first payment would have 
been due in 2022.
There was no formal agreement in place to provide advice on the Aegon plan or any 
servicing rights. 
If advice had been given, a fee would have been charged by Quilter which has not 
been taken into account in the redress.
Mr S still hasnt taken his annuity. The investigators view of the complaint required 
Mr S to take the annuity within 30 days of acceptance of the view. As my provisional 
decision had no such covenant, it could lead to Mr S receiving compensation without 
having taken out the annuity  which wouldnt be fair to both sides. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side have provided any new evidence in this complaint, I have no reason to 
depart from the findings that Ive already reached in my provisional decision. However, for 
completeness Ill address Quilters concerns.  
Quilter are correct in their assertion that Mr Ss annuity was payable annually in arrears. The 
compensation calculation Im directing takes that into account. When calculating A) below 
Quilter must use the notional payments Mr S would have received  which would have 
started in July 2022. As the payments are made in arrears, I havent directed that 8% 
interest be paid on the pro rata part of the calculation for part years owed.
Quilter argue that no formal agreement was made to provide advice on the Aegon pension. 
But, as Ive said in my provisional decision, I think its likely Adviser L agreed to look into the 
Aegon plan during his meeting with Mr S in May 2021. While no written agreement was 
made, that doesnt mean I cant look into Quilters actions, and it doesnt preclude them from 
having to act within the principles for businesses. 
Mr S was Quilters client, and as Ive said, its likely Adviser L agreed to look into his 
pension. The complaint Mr S has brought is about Quilters failure to provide a financial 
service that theyd agreed to do. So, I think its fair to assess Quilters failure to provide that 
service and direct them to pay fair compensation for that failure.Ive considered whether it would be fair to take into account any notional fee Quilter may 
have charged had Adviser L given advice. But I dont think it would be fair to. Ill explain why. 
When Mr S eventually met with his new adviser in January 2022, he again asked for his 
Aegon and AVC to be reviewed with a view to potentially moving to the platform. Following 
the meeting Adviser C requested information from Aegon regarding the policy. Adviser C 
confirmed with Aegon when the plan would start payment. And when Mr S chased Adviser C 
on 4 May 2022, she confirmed shed been in contact with Aegon about the GAR that would 
apply. Adviser C arranged for the paperwork to claim the annuity to be sent directly to Mr S 
and chased Aegon when it wasnt received. 
Ive seen no evidence that Adviser C charged Mr S any additional fees for this work. 
Therefore, I conclude that, on balance, its unlikely Adviser L would have charged Mr S any 
additional fees either. So, I dont think it would be fair to apply any notional fees to the 
calculation. 
I appreciate why Quilter feel Mr S should be compelled to purchase the annuity before any 
compensation is paid. They say Mr S could receive compensation without actually taking the 
annuity. However, for the reasons Ive given in this and my provisional decision, the position 
Mr S finds himself in now has only arisen because of Quilters failure to act much earlier than 
it did. Quilters failure put Mr S on a path that cannot be undone. I say that as I think its 
unlikely Aegon will now be willing to backdate an annuity to Mr Ss 60th birthday due to 
Quilters error. And thats not something I can compel Aegon to do in this complaint. 
As Mr S now finds himself in a different position to what he would have been in but for 
Quilters failings, Ive set out what I consider to be fair compensation for the losses Mr S has 
suffered. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr S back into the position he would have 
been in, had it not been for Quilters failings. I think that would have meant Mr S would have 
set up his annuity from Aegon on his 60th birthday. Using the fund size and annuity rates 
available on that date.
Any loss Mr S has suffered should be determined by calculating his past and future losses 
as Ive set out below.
Past loss
To calculate Mr Ss past loss Quilter should calculate:
A) Total of all the notional payments which Mr S should have received from his 
pension, net of his marginal rate of tax, from the date of his 60th birthday up to the 
date of my final decision. This should include a pro rata payment for any part-years 
owed.
In working out the net payments, Quilter should assume that Mr S was a 20% rate taxpayer.
Quilter should pay the total of A) with the addition of 8% simple interest from the date the 
payments should have been paid to the date of my final decision. No additional interest is 
required on the pro rata part of the calculation.
Future lossTo work out if Mr S will suffer a future loss Quilter should calculate:
B) The notional gross pension per year which Mr S should have been receiving 
from the date of my final decision onwards. Being the annuity he would have had in 
place at his 60th birthday.
C) The actual gross pension per year Mr S currently will receive from the date of 
my final decision onwards. As Mr S currently still has a pension fund, the gross 
pension per year he could receive from it is determined by applying the applicable 
guaranteed annuity rate to the fund value on the date of my final decision.
D) Future Gross Loss per year = B  C. If the answer is negative, theres a future 
gain and no redress is payable.
E) Quilter must then work out what it would cost to replace any lost income in (D) 
by buying an annuity on the open market with these features. It will need to refer to 
published annuity rate tables and get a quote from a competitive provider.
F) The purchase price of the annuity found in E) is Mr Ss gross future loss. 
This should be paid directly to him as a lump sum after making a notional reduction 
to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid at his likely rate on the 
income in D  presumed to be 20%.
If payment of compensation is not made within 90 days of Quilter receiving Mr Ss 
acceptance of my final decision, interest should be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Where interest is being added at 8% simple per annum, this is likely to be subject to tax 
applied by HM Revenue & Customs. If Quilter deducts tax, it should tell Mr S how much it 
has taken off. It should also give Mr S a certificate showing this, if requested by Mr S so he 
may reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
Quilter have already offered Mr S £300 for the trouble and upset their delay caused. I think 
that fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to Mr S having to repeatedly chase Adviser L. 
And the upset that caused. If they havent done so already, Quilter must now pay Mr S £300.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Quilter Financial Services Ltd to 
compensate Mr S as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman