DRN-1455824
 
The complaint
Mr T complains that American Express Services Europe Limited mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims 
management company.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was added to 
Mr Ts credit card account when he applied for the card by post. The policy covered him for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagreed 
saying in summary, that:
American Express used pressured sales tactics and used insurance to maximise its 
revenue
He can see now that he didn't need PPI.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint because:
I think the application form made it reasonably clear - through the need to tick a box - that 
the PPI was optional. Mr T ticked the box to show that he wanted it. So, overall, I think 
American Express did enough to make Mr T aware that the PPI was optional.
Mr T says American Express used pressured sales tactics. But this was a postal application. 
There's nothing to suggest Mr T spoke to a member of staff during the application process. 
So I don't find any undue pressure was placed on him to take the PPI.
American Express didnt advise Mr T to take the policy so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for him. But it did need to provide enough clear information for Mr T to decide for 
himself if the policy was suitable for his circumstances. Hes told us he would only have 
received staturory sick pay if he couldn't work and that he had no other means of making his 
repayments. The policy would have paid out for up to 24 months if he'd been unable to work 
due to sickness or an accdient. And it covered him if hed become unemployed. So I think he 
would have thought the policy couldve been a useful benefit to him.
Its possible the information American Express gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr T chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely  despite what he says 
now  that Mr T would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
But American Express has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
American Express got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr T about that. Because American 
Express didnt tell Mr T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, American Express has paid back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American Express Services Europe Limited does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But American Express Services Europe Limited does have to pay back to Mr T any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman