DRN-3157205
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy that Coventry Building Society didnt reduce the interest rate on 
their mortgage in March 2020 in line with reductions in the Bank of England base rate (base 
rate). Theyve said that when the base rate increased those increases were passed on 
straight away, but when the base rate fell Coventry chose not to pass those reductions on.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A applied for this mortgage through a third-party mortgage broker. A mortgage 
offer was issued in November 2015 which set out the terms of the mortgage contract. That 
said Mr and Mrs A were borrowing £237,000 over 20 years on a repayment basis. The 
product was called Flexx for Term and that was described in the offer as A variable rate, 
currently 1.79%, which is managed by Coventry Building Society and is set independently of 
its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage 
term. 
In August 2016 Coventry wrote to Mr and Mrs A to tell them the interest rate, and therefore 
the monthly payments, on their mortgage was going down. The letter said In line with the 
terms and conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our variable 
mortgage rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base Rate and 
the costs involved in providing your mortgage. As a result we are please to confirm that we 
are reducing your mortgage rate to 1.54%.
In November 2017 Coventry wrote to Mr and Mrs A to tell them the interest rate, and 
therefore the monthly payments, on their mortgage was going up. The letter said In line with 
the terms and conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our 
variable mortgage rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base 
Rate and the costs involved in providing your mortgage. As a result the rate you pay on your 
mortgage is increasing to 1.79%.
A further letter was sent in August 2018 with broadly the same wording, this time the interest 
rate was increasing to 2.04%.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr and Mrs A complained to Coventry as they were unhappy that Coventry hadnt reduced 
their interest rate, instead it had kept the rate for the Flexx for Term product the same.
Coventry didnt uphold the complaint. It said in its final response letter of 3 March 2021 that it 
needed to consider the interests of its membership as a whole. It reminded Mr and Mrs A 
that there was no early repayment charge (ERC) so they could move to a different product 
 or lender  if they wanted to.
As Mr and Mrs A didnt agree they referred their complaint to this service. In their complaint 
form they said that while the product was called a variable rate mortgage, it was clearly a 
tracker based on the base rate.
Our investigator considered the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
Coventry had made Mr and Mrs A aware of the type of interest rate they were taking 
out.
The terms and conditions set out that the interest rate might change, and why, and 
he thought Coventry had exercised those terms fairly.
There were no obvious barriers to Mr and Mrs A either taking a new product with 
Coventry or moving their mortgage to a new lender if they felt the interest rate was no 
longer competitive.
The pandemic was an extraordinary situation that meant Coventry needed to offer 
support to borrowers that were struggling, and it had to move to running its 
operations remotely. He felt the substantial challenge provided by the pandemic led 
to changes in the way any lender would need to run its business.
The current interest rate of 2.04% was a competitive rate across the wider mortgage 
market, particularly for a product offering such flexibility.
Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with our investigators assessment. They said, in summary:
It was presented to them as a tracker mortgage and they were clearly told it was 
linked to the base rate.
Coventry varied the rate in 2016, 2017 and 2018 in direct response to the base rate 
changes.
We should write to Coventry about this issue, and ask about its policy on how this 
product should be sold by third parties.
Coventry hasnt evidenced any increased costs, and it received a huge windfall from 
the Bank of England.
They consider the rate to be an unfair term, and not how the product was sold.
As Mr and Mrs A didnt agree with our investigator it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs A want us to write to Coventry about this issue. This service is 
impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this means is 
that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or take 
directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what correspondence should be entered 
into.The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr and Mrs A entered into, and whether 
the nature of the product was fairly explained by Coventry in the paperwork at the time. 
I cant consider the advice that was given, as the mortgage broker was a third party acting 
on behalf of Mr and Mrs A. For that reason, I cant comment on what the mortgage broker 
may have told Mr and Mrs A, nor how they may have represented the product to them. That 
would be a matter for Mr and Mrs A to take up directly with their mortgage broker if they so 
wish.
What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?
The mortgage offer provides the following descriptions of the product:
FFM50 - Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 1.79%, which is managed by 
Coventry Building Society and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the 
Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Advance, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Society at a 
rate, currently 1.79%, which will be set independently of The Society's Standard Variable 
Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
From that we can see this is a variable rate product that isnt linked to either the standard 
variable rate or the base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage product.
Mr and Mrs A have said that previously the rate had increased and reduced in line with base 
rate changes. But that hasnt always been the case. At the time Mr and Mrs A took out their 
mortgage, whilst Coventry had changed the products rate by the same differential the two 
previous times the base rate had changed, the three base rate changes before that hadnt 
been reflected with a matching differential change across the board.
I understand Mr and Mrs A believed the interest rate would likely follow base rate, and the 
base rate is one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate 
products. But Ive not seen any evidence that Coventry told Mr and Mrs A that their interest 
rate would always change in line with the base rate, and their mortgage offer clearly explains 
the interest rate is set independently of the base rate.
Mr and Mrs A have said that the term is unfair, but I dont agree. Coventry didnt mislead 
Mr and Mrs A into believing this was anything other than a variable rate product that it would 
set independently of the base rate. Coventry is entitled to offer variable rate products such 
as this, and theres nothing in the terms that are unfair.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Coventry set out the details of the interest rate of 
the product clearly and unambiguously, explaining it wasnt linked to the base rate. Although 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs A werent misled as to the nature of the interest rate of the product, I 
still need to decide if Coventry acted fairly.Was it fair for Coventry to increase the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, and not reduce it in 
2020?
The Mortgage Conditions Issue J booklet records the general terms and conditions 
applicable to the mortgage. That says:
4.5 Unless the Offer states otherwise, we can change the applicable Interest Rate for any 
of the following reasons (which may relate to circumstances existing at the time or 
those which are expected to apply in the near future):
4.5.1 (i) to respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate, or mortgage or 
investment rates generally;
(ii) to respond to changes in the law or the decisions of a court or ombudsman;
(iii) to meet relevant regulatory requirements;
(iv) to respond to new (or changes to any) statements or codes of practice 
designed to enhance consumer protection;
(v) to respond to changes in the costs or risks incurred by us in providing the 
mortgage;
(vi) to respond to any increased cost or risk incurred by us as a result of any 
change of use of the Property (for example, if you let the Property, with or 
without our permission); or
(vii) for any other reason set out specifically in the Offer.
The increases in 2017 and 2018 were due to clause 4.5.1(i) and 4.5.1(v); that is, an increase 
in the base rate, and changes in the costs incurred by Coventry in respect of mortgage 
lending. But although the condition says the interest rate can change when base rate 
changes, it doesnt say it has to do so.
It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable 
indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
Coventrys costs increased in 2017 and 2018 when the base rate went up, and thus 
Coventry also increased the interest rate on this product by the same amount of percentage 
points. 
But it doesnt automatically follow that Coventrys costs decreased in March 2020 as the 
costs dont just relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to Mr and Mrs As mortgage in 
isolation. The base rate decreased, but Coventry incurred additional costs across its 
mortgage function due to the pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment deferrals meaning 
mortgage payments werent being made when expected, needing to move to a remote way 
of working, and making its branch network Covid-secure, for example. 
Coventry didnt have the same level of increased costs when the base rate was reduced 
previously so theyre not comparable. Im satisfied Coventry has shown that the events of 
2020 were different to those of 2017 and 2018, and Im satisfied that Coventry has shown 
that its costs increased in 2020 even though base rate fell.Coventry has sent us information in confidence which shows why the Flexx interest rate 
wasnt reduced in 2020. Were unable to disclose that information to Mr and Mrs A as it is 
commercially sensitive, but Ive considered the information very carefully and Im satisfied 
that Coventrys decision wasnt unfair.
Coventry needed to make some decisions about the best way to assist those people that 
needed help the most; it didnt feel able to reduce all its variable rates in line with the base 
rate reductions as its costs had increased and it was an unprecedented time of uncertainty. 
Coventry made the decision to reduce the interest rates for those borrowers that were on a 
much higher variable rate than Mr and Mrs A (customers were paying 4.99% on the standard 
variable rate, compared to the 2.04% Mr and Mrs A were paying). That seems a fair decision 
for Coventry to have made. 
The product Mr and Mrs A have allows them the flexibility to switch to another interest rate 
product with Coventry at any time if they no longer felt the Flexx product offered value for 
money. Im satisfied that other interest rate products were available to Mr and Mrs As 
mortgage if they had wanted to switch to them and that there would have been no Early 
Repayment Charge (ERC) to pay or other contractual barrier that would have prevented this. 
They could also have shopped around and remortgaged to another lender, if they felt the 
interest rate products offered by Coventry werent competitive in the market. Mr and Mrs A 
dont have to apply for another product with Coventry or another lender, if they dont want to. 
But if they dont apply for another product then Mr and Mrs A will remain on the 2.04% Flexx 
interest rate  which Coventry may or may not vary, in line with the terms and conditions, in 
the future. 
From my wider knowledge of the mortgage market, I consider that the interest rate even 
remaining at 2.04% is competitive bearing in mind the level of flexibility the product offers. 
However, if Mr and Mrs A dont agree they have the option to remortgage to another lender 
and the only cost currently of ending this Coventry mortgage is a £125 mortgage exit fee (as 
set out in their mortgage offer). Alternatively that fee wouldnt be charged if they choose to 
simply change to a new product with Coventry instead. 
I understand the process to take out a new product is fairly straightforward and makes it 
easy for existing customers to get access to new interest rate products. So Im satisfied 
there were no practical or contractual barriers preventing Mr and Mrs A from coming out of 
this mortgage product if they wanted to look for another interest rate either with Coventry or 
elsewhere. It seems Mr and Mrs A could have taken out another product, but they chose not 
to.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs As frustration that their mortgage interest rate wasnt 
reduced, Im satisfied Coventry didnt act unfairly when it increased the interest rate in 2017 
and 2018, but then didnt reduce the interest rate in line with the base rate reductions in 
2020.
Having considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr and Mrs A may want me to.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman