DRN-3693808
Complaint
Mr S has complained about a personal loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says that he wasnt in a position to repay his loan without 
borrowing further.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr S with a loan for £3,500.00 in November 2021. This loan had 
an APR of 93.6% and a term of 48 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£10,101.12, including interest, fees and charges of £6,601.12, was due to be repaid in 48 
monthly instalments of just over £210. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr S complaint and he thought that Everyday Loans ought 
to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr S with his loan. Everyday Loans 
disagreed and so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint. Having carefully 
considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint. Ill explain why in a little more 
detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr S could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before it lent to Mr S. The results of which showed that Mr S already had a significant 
amount of existing debt with credit card providers. Furthermore, the bank statements 
Everyday Loans obtained showed that Mr S was regularly overdrawn and that he even had 
returned direct debits. 
And while theres some suggestion this loan might have been for debt consolidation, the 
amount didnt correspond to what Mr S owed. Its therefore unclear to me how or what was 
going to be consolidated and more crucially how this was going to improve Mr S overall 
financial position- especially as this loan had a far higher interest rate than Mr S credit 
cards. Im also mindful that the income and expenditure assessment Everyday Loans caried 
out showed that the payment for this loan would take up pretty much all of Mr S monthly 
disposable income. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr S has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr S difficulties reflected his choices 
rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest 
this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Everyday 
Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr S version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr S existing financial position meant that he was unlikely 
to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. 
And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not have 
shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr S. As Everyday Loans 
provided Mr S with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr S ended up paying (and is being expected to pay) interest, fees and charges on a loan he 
shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr S lost out because of what 
Everyday Loans did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr S by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to this loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr S made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£3,500.00 originally lent. If Mr S has already repaid more than £3,500.00 then 
Everyday Loans should treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments 
should be refunded to Mr S;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments, if there are any, 
from the date they were made by Mr S to the date of settlement;
if after all adjustments have been made, no outstanding balance remains, Everyday 
Loans should remove all adverse information it recorded on Mr S credit file as a 
result of this loan; OR if an outstanding balance does remain after all adjustments 
have been made Everyday Loans should contact Mr S to arrange a suitable and 
affordable repayment plan for the outstanding amount. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr S complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman