DRN-4080642
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund payments that werent authorised from 
her account.
What happened
Mrs W is represented in this complaint by a family member (the representative) shed 
allowed access to her account to make payments. The representative says that she didnt 
make these payments for Mrs W using a banking app downloaded to her phone. The ten 
payments in dispute were made between 9 and 12 July 2022 and came to £6,600. The 
representative said that these payments ought to have been flagged as suspicious.
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said that the payments were 
authorised by a response to a message sent to the registered phone number for the 
account. And the device used to make the payments was one that had been used for 
genuine transactions since November 2021. It said that the representative hadnt shown that 
her device had been compromised. Santander said that it had a fraud detection system, but 
these payments werent highlighted for additional checks.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the mandate 
for the payments had been set up on 6 July 2022. And a one-time passcode had been sent 
to the number registered on the account. The device used and the IP address were the 
same as that used for legitimate payments to the account. The representative said she had 
never shared her device passcode and the security details for the app. Our investigator said 
that there is no evidence to support these have been compromised. The beneficiary 
appeared to relate to crypto currency trading but there was nothing to support that Mrs W 
had been the victim of a scam. Santander had provided evidence that the payments were 
authorised.
Our investigator noted that the representative had reported a payment of £10 made in March 
2022 as fraud. But this had been looked into by Santander and had again been made with 
the genuine device and details for the account. It could have told Mrs W that outcome, but 
this didnt affect this complaint. The representative had provided a letter from police stating 
that the receiving account was opened with false details but the issue here was about the 
authorisation of the payments to that account.
The representative didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mrs W wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how the payments were made?
- Did Mrs W either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
the account to make them?
- Did Santander act reasonably?
The position here is that Mrs W had allowed the representative to have free access to her 
account given her personal circumstances. The mobile number associated with the account 
belonged to that representative. And the representative was given formal third-party access 
to the account for Santander after this fraud was reported.
Ive looked at the information about how the payments were authenticated. This required the 
security information for Mrs W to log into her account and confirmation when the payment 
mandate was set up after a message to her representatives phone. The information is that 
the genuine device had been used to make the payments. Im satisfied that the payments 
were authenticated.
I need to consider whether the payments were authorised. The representative had confirmed 
that her phone hadnt been compromised and was kept with her and that no one else could 
or would have accessed the account. She doesnt recall receiving any message until a fraud 
warning on 12 July 2022.  I note that payments were made in the early hours of 9 to 12 July 
2022 and a number of payments taken each night. There were substantial funds available in 
the account which werent accessed as quickly as possible. The information is that this 
money was sent to a company providing crypto currency trading. I note what has been 
provided about the recipient and that police dont appear to be taking any action about that. 
The issue I need to decide on in any event is whether the payments were authorised. Im 
afraid in the absence of any evidence of compromise of the account and as Mrs W had 
consented to the representative using the account I dont have a basis to find that she 
shouldnt be responsible for the payments.
Mrs Ws representative says that Santander ought to have recognised these payments as 
suspicious earlier on. I consider this would have been a more relevant issue had I concluded 
that the payments werent authorised. Santander has explained it has its own fraud detection 
system and that a check was made on 12 July 2022 and again to the phone that had been 
used to access the account. This led to the claim being raised. I dont consider that 
Santander has acted unreasonably in dealing with these payments.
I can appreciate that Mrs W will be very disappointed at the outcome given whats at stake 
for her.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman