DRN-2971250
The complaint
Mr H complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank havent helped him in 
getting access to his account.
What happened
In February 2020 Mr H wanted to access an account he held with Tesco. He said hed not 
accessed the account for several years, and after downloading the app, is told he needs to 
log in online. He said he wasnt able to do that, and there were no contact numbers where 
he was able to have a conversation with Tesco either despite several attempts. Because of 
that, he complained to Tesco and, when he didnt get a response, he forwarded his 
complaint to us.
Following our contact with Tesco, they replied to Mr Hs complaint. They said when Mr H 
initially got in touch with them, he didnt provide enough information to locate his account. 
So, they sent him an automated reply, asking for his address and date of birth, as without 
that it may prevent them from logging or replying to a complaint. Tesco said that, although 
they should have done more to locate Mr Hs account, that wasnt their process at the time 
and the automated reply had been created to prevent any issues. Tesco said this process 
had been changed following customer feedback in May 2020. And, although they hadnt 
done anything wrong so didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint, they did accept itd taken several 
months for this issue to be resolved  so offered £125 for their service and Mr Hs call costs.
Mr H contacted us following this, saying Tesco had acknowledged his email, and were now 
able to find his details with the same information hed previously provided. He said instead of 
contacting him for clarification they used an automated message to ask for details, which he 
never received. Mr H said Tescos change of process was they put in place an automated 
process that didnt work and ignored all historical contacts. Mr H says he was initially offered 
£50, then £100 as the maximum they could, and were now offering £125. He said its 
apparent Tesco are neither consistent or apparently honest, so he asked us to look into 
things. 
One of our investigators did so, and overall felt the £125 Tesco had paid Mr H was fair. But 
Mr H disagreed with this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr H has since got access to his account  as the compensation was paid by 
Tesco into that account, and he transferred it out the next day. So, the key question is 
whether the compensation awarded by Tesco is enough for the issues that have happened. 
And, while I realise Mr H will be disappointed, I think it is and Ill explain why.
Mr H hadnt used the account for a number of years, and many banks like Tesco will have a 
process to restrict access in this situation for security reasons. So, I dont think Tesco did 
anything wrong in restricting access to the account initially.
I can see Mr H raised a complaint to Tesco about not being able to get in touch with them 
when he tried to reactivate his account. Hed provided them some details, which as he says 
were seemingly enough for them to locate his account  so I agree with him on this point. 
But although Mr H said he didnt receive Tescos automated message asking for additional 
details I think he did. I say that because its been included in the information hes given to us 
when he first got in touch. Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr H did reply to this.
That said, I do think its likely Tesco could have done more  which theyve seemingly 
accepted now, even if it wasnt their process at the time.
So, to decide fair compensation Id need to think about the impact on Mr H. Here, the issue 
is hes not been able to access a savings account for several months. But this account had 
also not been used for several years and based on the information provided by Tesco had a 
nil balance. And, when the compensation was paid into this account, Mr H has transferred it 
straight out  suggesting he wasnt planning on using this account anyway.
Taking all of that into account, although I can understand Mr Hs frustration, I do think the 
£125 that Tesco have already paid is fair to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman