DRN-3131620
The complaint
Mr S says Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 Money, lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr S took out a 24-month instalment loan for £3,500 from 118 118 Money on 27 March 
2017. He says he shouldnt have been given the loan as his credit score was low when he 
applied. He quickly couldnt make the repayments and says the lender was unhelpful. He 
now has a default registered against him that he says he wasnt notified of. So he asks for 
this to be removed, as well as for the loan to be written-off and for compensation to be paid. 
Our adjudicator said that as 118 118 Money upheld Mr Ss complaint in its final response 
letter saying it should not have lent to Mr S, and as it agreed to settle it in line with our 
guidelines, he was not upholding Mr Ss complaint. He noted Mr S wanted confirmation that 
the default would be removed from his credit file and he arranged for the lender to confirm 
this to Mr S directly. The lender has told us it has now done this.
Mr S remained unhappy, saying he wanted an ombudsmans review as this was not the right 
outcome, nor had there been a full investigation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here. 
When Mr S complained to 118 118 Money it upheld his complaint saying it should have 
carried out more checks before lending. It then set out what it would do to put this right. This 
included refunding all interest and charges (as it had sold the outstanding debt it liaised with 
the new owner to achieve the same) and removing all adverse information from Mr Ss credit 
file that related to this loan. It has told us it has since clarified to Mr S this included removing 
the default it had registered against him. 
 
I understand there is still an outstanding capital balance with the new owner. Our standard 
approach in such cases is that the borrower should repay the capital they borrowed as they 
have had the benefit of that money. So Mr S should contact the new owner to agree a 
repayment plan that is affordable for him. He could contact Step Change on 0800 138 1111 
or National Debtline on 0808 808 4000 for support if he has ongoing financial difficulties. 
Both organisations also offer a webchat service. 
In summary, as 118 118 Money found that it had lent irresponsibly and then put this right in 
the way we would have ordered if wed reached same conclusion, I find there is no reason 
for us to further investigate the lending decision. 
Mr S also said that the lender was unhelpful and harassed him when he told it he was having 
financial difficulties. And that it didnt contact him before defaulting his account. I have 
reviewed the thirteen text messages, emails and letters 118 118 Money sent to Mr S 
between 20 June 2017 and 11 August 2017 after he missed payments. I havent seen any 
evidence that he replied to any of these contacts and I think they were fair and appropriate in 
tone. The lender repeatedly asked Mr S to make contact so it could help find a solution. It 
issued a Notice of Sums in Arrears and then a Notice of Default in line with industry 
requirements. All communications were sent to the phone number, email and postal address 
Mr S had provided so I cannot fairly hold 118 118 Money responsible for any non-receipt. It 
follows I do not find any failings on the part of 118 118 Money when it was trying to contact 
him about his arrears or during the default process.
I understand Mr Ss financial situation would have caused him distress, but 118 118 Money 
has upheld his complaint with regards to its lending decision and put things right in line with 
our guidelines, so I make no further award.  
 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman