DRN-3605794
The complaint
Mr P complains that Metro Bank PLC charged him an arrangement fee for a loan he 
attempted to cancel and repay within the 14-day withdrawal period. 
What happened
Mr P applied to Metro Bank for a loan in November 2021. The lending was approved, and 
the funds were paid into his account on 26 November 2021.
 
Mr P no longer required the loan, so he attempted to contact Metro Bank by phone and in 
writing. Mr P heard nothing back from Metro Bank, so he tried to repay the loan via the 
online portal. His initial attempt was unsuccessful, but he did manage to repay the full 
amount, including the arrangement fee which had since been added, on 31 December 
2021.These funds credited his loan account on 5 January 2022.
Mr P complained to Metro Bank on 10 January 2022 by email. Metro Bank didnt uphold the 
complaint as they said Mr P hadnt contacted them to cancel the loan within 14 days of 
receiving the executed agreement. 
  
Mr P was unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter. She was satisfied that Mr P had attempted to withdraw 
from the agreement within the 14 day withdrawal period and asked Metro Bank to refund the 
£832.50 loan arrangement fee, as well as any interest that wouldnt have been charged had 
Mr P cancelled during the 14 day window and pay 8% simple interest to Mr P.
Metro Bank didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. They provided copies of 
their call data for the days Mr P said he called them to try and withdraw from the agreement 
and repay the loans. This data included a search of calls received from the number Mr P 
called from, the average waiting time for calls to be answered during those periods and the 
number of abandoned calls during the periods Mr P said he called.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold this complaint and Ive explained my reasons below.
Ill begin by saying that considerable persuasive evidence has been provided in this case by 
both parties, so Ive needed to consider each aspect thoroughly and ask for some 
information from a third party to reach my final decision on the matter. 
Phone calls
Mr P provided us with a phone bill from his provider which details three calls to the phone 
number provided in the loan agreement. These calls were placed on the 26, 29 and 30 
November 2021 and lasted between 38 and 56 minutes. Mr P says he was on hold for each 
of these calls and hung up before he managed to speak to an advisor each time. The calls 
took place at different times of the day.
However, Metro Bank have provided data to show that no calls were received on those 
dates from the number on the phone bill Mr P provided. They also told us:
the wait times on those days for calls to be answered were less than 39 seconds
there were no abandoned calls during the time period Mr P called them on 26 
November
there were no calls recorded on their system matching the length of the calls on Mr 
Ps phone bill
Metro Bank provided detailed reports to support their arguments.
As both sides provided persuasive evidence to support their case, I contacted a third party, 
in this case one of the phone providers, to ask for assistance. They responded and 
confirmed that if the calls are showing on the customers itemised bill then the calls definitely 
connected via their network to the number dialled. As a result, as compelling as Metro 
Banks evidence is, it appears that Mr P tried to contact Metro Bank in the initial days 
following receipt of the loan funds into his bank account.
Mr P didnt manage to speak to an advisor on any of these calls, but I agree that this does 
show Mr Ps intent to contact Metro Bank in a timely manner about the loan.
Letter
Mr P told us he wrote to Metro Bank on the 1 December following his inability to speak to 
anyone on the phone. Mr P provided us with a copy of the letter he sent but told us he hadnt 
had time to wait for proof of postage due to time constraints with his job.
Metro Bank never received this letter and have said there is no evidence it was posted. 
There is no way for either party to prove this letter was or wasnt sent. I think Mr P shouldve 
waited for proof of postage considering the importance of the letter and the difficulties he had 
on the phones. However, he didnt, and it looks likely that if the letter was posted then it was 
lost in the post. 
Mr P has argued that a bank would be given the benefit of the doubt in this situation 
however, it is likely a bank would have an electronic record of the letter and a date stamp of 
when this was sent on their system.
In this situation, Mr P has no evidence that the letter was posted. This is not to say that I 
doubt what Mr P has told us, but I have based my decision on the other more persuasive 
evidence that is available to me in this case.
Emails
Mr P contacted Metro Bank on 10 January by email to raise his complaint. I thought it was 
unusual that he hadnt tried to contact them by email before this date but Mr P told us that he 
didnt want to share the details contained in the letter, such as the loan account details, over 
email due to security concerns.I understand why Mr P mightve had these concerns, but I think he couldve sent a more 
generic email asking Metro Bank to confirm if his letter had been received or asking for 
someone to call him urgently as he was unable to get through on the phone. 
Repayment of the loan
Mr P says he attempted to repay the loan on 24 December via the online portal. He said he 
chose to do it this way to ensure he was within the 30-day period you are given to repay the 
loan if you chose to withdraw from the agreement early. He was unable to complete this 
transaction at the time but did manage to make the repayment on 31 December.
Metro Bank say there is no record of an attempt to log into the account on 24 December but 
neither party have provided me with evidence here either way.
However, there is no dispute that Mr P repaid the loan in full including any interest and the 
arrangement fee on 31 December.
Conclusion
I dont think Mr P has helped himself in this situation. I think he couldve contacted Metro 
Bank sooner by email and he shouldve obtained proof of postage for such an important 
letter. Nonetheless, I accept that the phone calls, although not answered, showed Mr Ps 
intent to contact Metro Bank about the loan before the 14-day withdrawal period expired. 
In addition, Mr P repaid the full amount on 31 December. Had Mr P contacted Metro Bank on 
the last day of the withdrawal period and taken 30 days to repay the loan, it would have 
taken him to the 7 January. 
So, Im satisfied that although Mr P hadnt directly spoken to Metro Bank within the 14-day 
withdrawal period, he had repaid the funds in full by 5 January. This wouldve been within 
the time allowed for the withdrawal and repayment periods and Mr P hasnt had the benefit 
of these funds since that time. As such, I think Metro Bank should refund the arrangement 
fee.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am upholding Mr Ps complaint. I direct Metro Bank PLC to
refund the loan arrangement fee and pay him 8% simple interest from the date the loan was 
repaid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman