DRN-4418817
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that Revolut Ltd took a long time to send him funds that had been paid into 
a closed account. Hes also unhappy that it deducted a sum from the total balance and sent 
it to someone else. 
What happened
Mr Ts account was restricted in January 2023 whilst Revolut carried out a review. This was 
following a recall of funds claim from a different customer Mr T sold a mobile phone to.
Revoluts review led to a decision to close Mr Ts account. This was communicated to him on 
12 January 2023. He was told hed have access until 13 March 2023. He was also told that 
any attempts to pay money into the account would result in that money being returned to the 
sender. 
On 21 March 2023 £2,300 was credited to Mr Ts now closed account. Mr T asked Revolut 
to send this money to him and gave details for a different account held elsewhere. 
Revolut did send Mr T the money, but not until 22 June 2023. And it deducted £337 from the 
total it sent back. Revolut said it did so because of the earlier claim on the funds Mr T had 
received for the sale of the phone. That money was sent to the customer that had raised the 
claim.
Mr T complained about the time taken to receive his money and the fact Revolut had 
deducted the £337. Revolut said theyd acted in line with the account terms and conditions 
and that it was obliged to return the disputed funds to the sender. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Revolut has acted fairly and reasonably and Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Mr T doesnt appear to dispute Revoluts right to suspend or even close his account. In any 
case, Revoluts right to do so is clearly established in the account terms and conditions. Im 
satisfied, from the evidence Ive seen, that Revolut acted fairly and reasonably when relying 
on these terms.
Im also satisfied it was fair and reasonable for Revolut to accept the incoming payment of 
£2,300, even though the account was closed. This money came from a gambling website Mr 
T was a customer of. 
It seems Mr T must have requested this withdrawal from the account he held with the 
gambling site. Its also reasonable to assume that Mr T knew  or ought to have known  
that it was his Revolut account that was linked to that site. And so it was foreseeable that 
any request for a withdrawal would go back to the originating account. That is very much 
standard practice for a gambling site. Mr T may well have found he had difficulty in obtaining 
the funds in any other way.
The payment into the account was completed because of how it was made. It wasnt a bank 
transfer made through the faster payment system. Instead, it was initiated by the merchant 
as a card refund. I can then see why Revolut did accept that credit to the account and Im 
satisfied it was fair and reasonable for it to do so.
Revolut knew there was a claim on the funds that had credited Mr Ts account back in 
January 2023. That claim was outstanding as Mr T had previously withdrawn the money that 
was sent to him. Im satisfied Revolut acted fairly in fulfilling that claim when the account  
albeit closed  then had funds available to settle the claim. And its decision to return that 
money was fair and reasonable, based on the evidence it had. I dont find it needed to ask 
Mr T any further questions about it.  
I know it took Revolut a long time to get Mr T the remaining funds. That is unfortunate, and I 
know Mr T has said it caused him significant financial difficulty. But I cant see any evidence 
of unnecessary delays on Revoluts part, and Im satisfied it followed the correct processes 
in returning Mr Ts funds.
 My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman