DRN-2223908
The complaint
Mrs P says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
Mrs P bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card. She applied for 
the credit card and PPI policy through the post. 
At the time, Mrs P was employed as an estimating manager. She has told us she was 
entitled to sick pay, but shes not been able to remember how much she had or how long this 
wouldve lasted for. She also says she was entitled to redundancy pay, but she hasnt told us 
she had any other means to make her repayments. Mrs P has said she was in good health 
at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided cover for life, accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 3% of Mrs Ps credit card balance in the event 
of a successful claim for up to 12 months for an unemployment claim, and until she returned 
to work or the balance on the card had been paid off (whichever was sooner) for a disability 
claim. At the time, it cost 68p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
MBNA has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in August 2005.
Mrs Ps representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ps representative says:
MBNA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs Ps 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means MBNA should have 
told Mrs P about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means MBNA should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs P and the impact 
they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs P received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have only included a summary of the complaint, but I wanted to reassure both parties that I 
have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: 
relevant law and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
relevant codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its 
general approach to PPI complaints on our website and published some example 
final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant considerations may apply to 
PPI sales like Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that out in much detail here but Ive taken 
this into account in deciding Mrs Ps complaint.
This sale took place in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs 
(and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules 
(ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter 
Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2005. That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in 
light of the Plevin judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied 
are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers 
General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including 
Employees of Insurance Companies) other than Registered Insurance Brokers  
The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice 
expected of intermediaries like MBNA at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the 
ABI code and these other publications into account when deciding, what is in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ps case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law 
relating to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and 
implied duty on professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and 
diligence); the law relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to 
causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about 
acts or omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account 
what determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the 
Banking Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an 
equivalent complaint. I note that under the Banking Ombudsmans terms of 
reference the Ombudsman was required to decide complaints by reference to what 
was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  and that the 
Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable rule of law or relevant judicial 
authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints 
relating to the sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a 
regulated activity, so MBNA was required to take into account the provisions in DISP 
App 3 as if they were guidance when considering Mrs Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key 
questions I need to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of this complaint, are:
- If MBNA gave advice, whether it advised Mrs P with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given 
her needs and circumstances. 
- Whether MBNA gave Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations 
and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mrs P, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs P 
suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs P 
and MBNA, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mrs P know she had a choice?
MBNA had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy of the postal application form Mrs P completed and signed. In this 
there is a separate section for PPI where Mrs P has ticked the yes option to agree 
to the cover. But there was also a no option available, so I think Mrs P wouldve 
known she had a choice about the PPI. As this was a postal application, Mrs P was 
free to complete this in her own space and time, and without any influence or 
pressure from MBNA. 
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mrs P knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did MBNA provide advice?
MBNA says it didnt provide any advice and as this was a postal sale, I think its likely 
advice wasnt provided during the sale. 
This means MBNA didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs P. Instead, it 
had to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs P to 
make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
MBNA has provided us with Mrs Ps application form  showing that PPI had been 
selected. It has also provided us a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve 
received, including the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of 
probabilities  applied to policies like Mrs Ps. 
Looking at the documentation provided to Mrs P at the time, I dont think MBNA gave 
Mrs P the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place by post. I can see the application form described the PPI policy 
as providing cover against accident, sickness, unemployment or death. It also 
informed Mrs P that the premiums would be collected each month at the cost of 68p 
per £100.
The information provided would have given Mrs P a broad sense of what the policy 
covered. But it was MBNAs responsibility to draw to Mrs Ps attention the important 
information  i.e. the key information about the nature of the cover and any 
significant exclusions and limitations which might be relevant to her decision. Im not persuaded MBNA did enough to do this. For example, I dont think the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mrs P or that the payments would attract 
interest. In addition, I cant see that MBNA adequately drew to her attention the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
So, I dont think MBNA gave Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in 
its guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the 
reasons set out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mrs Ps representative has raised a 
number of general points with regards to the requirements on a business when 
providing information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI 
complaints, like Mrs Ps. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ps representative considers to be 
poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business 
rather than the insurer. 
- the common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have 
just told Mrs P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone 
further and explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ps representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain 
what a court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to 
the insurer having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions in the way Mrs P has suggested. And 
taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of good industry practice 
applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude that 
MBNA ought to have done either. 
what effect did MBNAs shortcomings have on Mrs P? To what extent did Mrs 
P suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that MBNA didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to 
Mrs P. So, Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mrs P suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide 
whether or not Mrs P would have still taken out the policy, had MBNA done things 
properly. 
Mrs P says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to 
be the case given the significant failings identified above. As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs P had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt 
insure against the risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs P chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But she made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what 
Mrs P thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mrs P has suffered any loss 
or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs P ought reasonably to have known she 
would have to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of her 
outstanding balance. But I accept that MBNA didnt make clear the on-going cost 
information. So, while Mrs P didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the 
event of a successful claim was not dissimilar to what she would reasonably have 
thought from the information she based her decision to take out the policy on and 
found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs P thought she had 
bought and what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mrs P knew or 
ought to have known about at the start date of the policy or which Mrs P had 
seen or arranged to see a doctor about during the 12 months immediately 
before the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on 
those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if 
Mrs P wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs P be 
unable to do her own job or any other work which Mrs P was or may 
reasonably become qualified for in view of her training, education and ability; 
The cover provided by the policy ended when Mrs P turned 65.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well 
have caused Mrs P pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude 
that the policy was not as good as she thought and she might have decided not to 
proceed. The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in 
this sale, might have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances 
from Mrs P from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. she was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable 
to her should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  
Mrs P didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent 
employment. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were more onerous than 
Mrs P might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to 
be able to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to 
support that claim. And while this limitation might have dissuaded some consumers 
in slightly different circumstances to Mrs P from taking out the policy, Mrs P, in her 
circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it out.
If Mrs P had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both 
her/ job and any other work which in the insurers view she might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about what she would 
have done. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although its 
possible she may not have been overly concerned given that if Mrs P was unable 
(through disability) to carry on her own occupation the chances that she would be 
able to take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Mrs P has complained that she reached 60 while the policy was in place - and she 
wouldnt have been able to claim on it at that point. The policy wouldve actually 
covered Mrs P up to the age of 65. But Mrs P was 42 when she took out the PPI, so I 
think its more likely than not shed have thought shed still get some value out of 
having the PPI, as it would have covered her for a reasonable period of time before 
she turned 65. And and the PPI ended in 2005 when this account was closed  when 
Mrs P was 48 years old. So, she had the benefit of the policy for the entire time the 
PPI was in place.  
 
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more 
likely than not that Mrs P would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was 
sufficiently close to what she thought she was getting and I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, notwithstanding her employment benefits. 
And in those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that she would have 
taken out the policy in any event.  
Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be 
presumed the consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to 
outweigh the presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional 
circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account 
along with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and 
reasonable. Considering the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever 
intended to be at odds with the approach I have taken. 
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint 
might lead to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found it would be reasonable to 
conclude there were substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, 
DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mrs P would not have bought the PPI she 
bought unless, in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to 
rebut the presumption. I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is 
rebutted in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into 
account Mrs Ps circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to 
conclude the position Mrs P found herself in as a result of the sale was the same 
position she would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we 
have failed to give proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that 
she would not have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 
(which I dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I dont consider, in this 
case, that it would represent fair compensation to put Mrs P in the position she would 
have been in if she had not bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the 
policy, I am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she 
would still have taken out the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair 
and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude MBNA should pay Mrs P 
compensation, as that would put her in a better position than she would have been in 
if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs P thinks MBNA misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude 
some of MBNAs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason 
why MBNA failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt 
say in the information it provided  but because the overall information MBNA gave 
Mrs P, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect it to have met in 1999 when providing information about an 
insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ps representative says a court might take 
if it were to find MBNA negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs P and about 
the remedy a court might award if it were to find that MBNA had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions 
about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  
including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the 
reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs P 
in a better position than if everything had happened as it should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman