DRN-4286770
The complaint
Mr T complains that TSB Bank plc were rude to him when he visited the branch to request 
12 months of bank statements. 
What happened
Mr T visited a TSB branch to collect 12 months of bank statements that he needed, but he 
says the customer service he received was appalling. He says he felt attacked by the 
manager and he felt the service he received was hostile and rude as the manager asked him 
why he couldnt email the statements or print them out himself. Mr T says he has disabilities 
that TSB are aware of, and he felt their treatment was unfair. Mr T made a complaint to TSB.
TSB did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. They said printing statements is not a service that is 
offered in their branches, and they were right to inform him about this, and of the alternative 
methods in which he could access his statements (for example online banking, in which he 
could print or email himself, or they could be ordered to be delivered to his address). Mr T 
brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said given the time that has passed, its 
difficult to know exactly what happened in branch. He said he requested Closed-Circuit 
Television (CCTV) footage but given the time that had passed this was no longer available 
and even if it would have been there would be no audio. Mr T asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr T that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how they 
should manage their statements procedure if someone asks for statements in a branch. It 
would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to 
instruct TSB to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
As our investigator has explained, CCTV is not available for me to view here, and even if it 
was, it would be unlikely to contain audio, and no witness statements are available due to 
the events now happening over a year ago. So Im unable to rely on these here, and Im 
unable to say for certain what happened in the branch that day. But I have considered what 
Mr T has said about what happened in the branch in the day in question. 
He has said that the branch manager was hostile and rude to him, and he felt attacked. So 
what Ive done is Ive looked at TSBs procedures for when a customer requests bank 
statements. After Mr T is verified, the first step of TSBs process is for them to explore the 
option of their customer to print their statements from their digital inbox. 
Mr T would not be aware of TSBs internal procedures for statement requests. So if he asked 
the branch manager to print off his last 12 bank statements, and the branch manager 
explored the option of Mr T printing these off himself, then Mr T may have felt the branch 
manager was being rude or not doing as he asked. But it appears the branch manager was 
following TSBs procedure here. 
I can confirm that after looking at TSBs internal procedure for a statement request, the next 
step after this is to order a copy of a statement. Nowhere on the statement procedures does 
it state that these can be printed off in branch. So unfortunately, this is why Mr T couldnt get 
the statements he requested in the branch there and then. I know this must have been 
disappointing for Mr T especially as he took the time to visit the branch to get the statements 
and he felt the branch manager was being rude for not printing these off for him, but it 
appears the branch manager was following their procedures. So it follows that I wont be 
asking TSB to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman