DRN-4261971
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund the money he lost 
when he tried to buy a new phone and it turned out to have been a scam.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr H saw a brand-new iPhone 13 Pro Max phone advertised for sale at a 
low price on a well-known social media marketplace. 
He messaged the seller to find out more, and then he and the seller got in contact using a 
separate messaging app. 
The seller sent Mr H screenshots appearing to show purchases made from a major retailer, 
which the seller said were orders for other customers. Mr H said he was interested and 
asked how to pay. The seller gave him payment details to pay by bank transfer. 
The seller said Mr H could collect the phone in person. But it was slightly too far for Mr H to 
travel. The seller then said they would arrange next day delivery.
Mr H then sent the £500 payment for the phone by Faster Payments transfer from his Halifax 
current account. The seller sent Mr H a screenshot appearing to show an order being 
placed.
However, the seller said hed used the incorrect payment reference. Mr H was asked to send 
the payment again. Mr H knew this wasnt legitimate. He says the seller insisted and 
threatened him if he didnt make payment. 
Mr H refused, and he reported the matter as a scam to Halifax within two hours of the 
payment being made. But unfortunately, the scammer had already moved the money on 
from the bank account Mr H had paid. So, there was nothing left to be recovered.
Halifax is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM Code) which can offer additional protection from Authorised Push Payment scams 
(APP scams) such as this one. But Halifax didnt refund Mr Hs loss under the CRM Code. It 
said hed not done enough to check who he was paying, or to check the seller had the item 
they were offering for sale. 
Halifax also said Mr H had awareness of the risks of the transaction he was making. Hed 
fallen victim to a similar goods purchase scam on social media about 12 months earlier and 
Halifax had given him relevant scam information, including how to protect himself in future.
Mr H complained to Halifax. He said hed been unable to protect himself from this scam 
because English wasnt his first language, and he wasnt digitally literate. He said he 
desperately needed the money back.
Our Investigator looked into what had happened, but didnt think Halifax needed to refund 
Mr H. He noted that the price was well below what would be expected for this item. He 
thought the deal being offered was simply too good to be true. Mr H had asked sensible 
questions about the seller, asking for the sellers website, and asking why the sellers name 
didnt match the bank account name or the name of the social media profile (all were 
different). But hed only asked this after having sent the payment.
Mr H didnt accept the Investigators view, so I have been asked to make a final decision on 
his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H and I know how much this complaint means to him, but Ive 
decided I cant fairly require Halifax to pay him what he lost.
Mr H was the victim of a scam, and I am sorry to hear about the situation he now finds 
himself in. However, even though this was a scam, that doesnt mean Halifax must refund 
what was lost. The cause of the loss was really the scammer who tricked Mr H.
As a starting point, because Mr H authorised the relevant payment, he is presumed liable for 
it. 
However, the CRM Code can provide additional protection from APP scams. Im satisfied 
this payment was the result of an APP scam and is one that falls within the scope of the 
CRM Code.
Even though it gives additional protection, the CRM Code wont always require a bank to 
refund its customer. Halifax points out that the CRM Code allows a bank not to refund a 
customer in some situations and says one of those situations applies here. Halifax says that 
Mr H didnt have a reasonable basis for believing that he was paying a genuine seller for 
genuine goods, or that he was paying who he expected to pay.
So Ive first thought about whether Halifax can fairly rely on this when it says it wont refund 
Mr H.
Mr H explains hed used social media to buy items before. One of those times was 
unfortunately a similar scam, and that time Halifax refunded him in full. Having had that 
experience, Mr H would likely have gained some knowledge of the risks of paying by bank 
transfer for something advertised on social media.
This later scam had some features that made it seem more genuine. The seller showed a 
photo of the phone with its box and a receipt. They also provided screenshots appearing to 
show other customers orders being placed.
But there were factors I think should have caused Mr H to have significant doubts about 
what was happening. 
The price advertised was far lower than the usual selling price for this model of phone, and 
for one that was essentially brand new. Mr H says hed only been looking for a refurbished 
phone, which would normally be cheaper than a new phone. The price of this one was nearly 
half the typical new price at the time and was sold including next day delivery. I think the 
deal he was being offered was too good to be true. The seller told Mr H he had a business discount code but that isnt a plausible explanation as 
to how (or why) the phones were supposedly being sold at such a low price compared to the 
normal price.
The screenshots provided by the seller arent good evidence that the orders were actually 
made or successfully received by the supposed customers. And there was nothing to show 
the seller actually had the item for sale rather than just having access to a photo of it. I dont 
think the advert or screenshots should have given Mr H reassurance that what he was being 
promised was true  especially given how exceptionally cheap the price being quoted was.
Mr H later questioned the seller about the mismatch between the name of the seller, the 
name on the social media profile, and the name on the bank account he was being asked to 
pay. He was right to have these concerns, these were all further signs that something 
probably wasnt right. Asking these questions helped him to uncover the scam. 
Unfortunately, he says he didnt ask the seller about this until shortly after hed made his 
payment. Taking everything into account, I think Mr H did know what steps to take to protect 
himself from this scam (such as asking these questions). Had he asked questions such as 
these before sending the payment I think hed probably have realised sooner what was 
happening and so would have not gone ahead. But with all of this in mind, I dont think I can 
fairly and reasonably find Mr H would have been unable to protect himself from this scam.
In short then, at the point he made the payment I dont think Mr H had seen enough to have 
reasonable confidence that the seller would provide the phone as promised  or that the 
seller was legitimate or genuine. That means I find Mr H made these payments without a 
reasonable basis for believing the seller was legitimate or knowing who he was paying - so 
Halifax is entitled to rely on that reason not to refund him.
Mr H has explained that he thinks Halifax should have blocked the payment from being 
made, at least until it could have spoken to him about it. I think it is fair to expect a bank to 
intervene when a payment is requested which is significantly out of character or unusual. But 
here the payment wasnt for a remarkable amount compared to many of Mr Hs usual 
transactions. He often makes payments for similar or larger sums. I dont think there was 
enough here that Halifax should have been concerned that the payment might be linked to 
fraud or a scam. So, I dont think it was at fault for not blocking the payment, or otherwise 
intervening to warn Mr H.
While Mr H reported the scam very quickly, the scammer had already removed his money 
from the account hed sent it to. So, it wasnt possible for any of the funds to be recovered. 
Unfortunately, scammers often move money on very rapidly before it can be reclaimed  and 
this is what happened here.
Overall, Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr H. I can understand why he wants to do 
all that he can to try and recover the money he lost through this scam. He sent the payment 
in good faith and did not receive anything in return for it. Hes explained how in his 
circumstances money is already tight, and hes been left in a difficult financial position.
But I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for the actions of a scammer. I can only look at the 
banks position on Mr Hs fraud claim and its assessment under the CRM Code. Im satisfied 
the bank processed Mr Hs payment correctly in line with his instructions. It then tried to 
recover his money once it knew what had happened. Halifax has established it can choose 
not to refund Mr H under the CRM Code and I cant fairly ask Halifax to do more than it has 
done. So, Halifax isnt required to refund Mr H for what he lost to the scammer  either under 
the CRM Code or for any other reason.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman