DRN-3988614
The complaint
Mr J complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) repeatedly declined a credit card 
transaction. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide an 
overview of key events here. 
Mr J applied for, and was provided with, an HSBC credit card account on 16 October 2020. 
His initial credit limit was £12,000 and the account offered interest free credit on initial 
purchases for 18 months after the account opened. 
On the same day, Mr J rang HSBC to check how long it would take for the card to arrive. He 
logged onto his account while on the phone and could see that although he didnt have the 
card yet, he was able to add the card details to a mobile phone payment application. 
Mr J visited a jeweller later that morning and tried to use the mobile phone payment 
application to buy a watch for £11,850. The payment was declined a number of times. Mr J 
contacted HSBC by phone while at the shop to try and sort the matter out. The issue wasnt 
resolved and, after spending several hours in the shop, Mr J was not able to buy the watch. 
Mr J contacted HSBC on 20 October 2020 to check whether he would be able to use his 
credit card account if he tried again to purchase the watch. He then contacted the jeweller 
and was provided with an online facility to try and make the payment without having to visit 
the shop. Mr J was able to make a partial payment of around £5,000, but when he tried to 
make a second payment to cover the outstanding balance, his card was declined. Mr J again 
rang HSBC to try to sort this matter out, but he was unable to pay the outstanding balance 
for the watch. The jeweller then declined to reserve the watch for Mr J for any longer.
Mr J complained to HSBC. He said he was initially told by the HSBC adviser on 
16 October 2020 that he would be able to use the card immediately for the full amount of the 
watch. He said when the transaction was declined, he contacted HSBC and was given a 
variety of reasons why things might have gone wrong - the card hadnt been activated, the 
problem might lie with the payment application, there might be issues with it being a new 
card and the amount might be too high for a single transaction. Mr J said he made an 
unnecessary journey, was in the jewellers for over two hours and was very embarrassed.
HSBC responded and apologised for the service provided. It said Mr J was misinformed by 
its advisers about the payment application and about transaction limits. It told Mr J blocks 
hadnt been placed by the fraud department. HSBC offered Mr J £150 for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Mr J remained unhappy and contacted HSBC again. It responded and increased the offer of 
compensation to £300. It said a marker had been placed on Mr Js account, which should 
have meant the transaction went through, but this was overridden by the system. It said a 
special marker placed on the account then meant the transaction was declined as it 
exceeded the £45 contactless limit. HSBC said the payment was declined on 
20 October 2020 for security reasons and Mr J was advised to visit his branch. It said it 
understood his frustration about the unclear information provided.
HSBC contacted Mr J again in March 2021. It offered compensation of £500 and said it 
offered this because incorrect information was provided to Mr J, and because of the 
inconvenience and embarrassment faced by him. It was not offered in relation to the current 
value of the watch. HSBC said the transaction was contactless and high value and all 
systems have certain restrictions. 
Mr J remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this Service. Mr J said HSBC should 
pay the difference between the price of the watch at the time he was trying to purchase it, 
and its current, higher, retail price. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. He said there didnt seem to be a reason 
why the transaction on 16 October 2020 failed, other than a fault with HSBCs systems. And 
he said Mr J made every attempt to resolve the issue with HSBC on 20 October 2020 but it 
wasnt able to assess what the issue was. Our Investigator thought the compensation of 
£500 already offered was fair. Our Investigator said that if this Service asked HSBC to cover 
the difference between what the watch would have cost in 2020 and what it costs now, then 
HSBC wouldnt be covering an actual financial loss, only a potential loss. 
Mr J didnt agree with what our Investigator said. He provided this Service with an invoice for 
a watch hed purchased in March 2022  which he said was identical to the one he had tried 
to purchase in October 2020  and asked us to consider that he made a financial loss here, 
given the difference in price between the two watches. As Mr J didnt agree with what our 
Investigator said, this came to me for a decision.  
I issued a provisional decision on 23 September 2022. I said I intended to come to the same 
conclusion as our Investigator and not uphold the complaint, but additional information had 
been provided by Mr J after our Investigator issued his assessment, so I wanted to give both 
parties an opportunity to respond before I issued a final decision. 
Mr J responded and said he had requested further information from HSBC about his debit 
card. He asked our Investigator to request recordings of calls made by him to HSBC on 
11 November 2020. Mr J said this would demonstrate that he was unable to purchase the 
watch using his debit card, as it was cancelled by HSBC, and in this way HSBC didnt allow 
him to complete the purchase of the watch. He said the information would also show that he 
was unable to use his current account. 
Mr J gave us the information hed received from HSBC, although he was concerned that he 
hadnt received everything that he requested. He said that without this information he was 
unable to show there was a block on his debit card that contributed to the failed purchase. 
HSBC provided this Service with a copy of a call recording from 11 November 2022. It also 
responded to the provisional decision and said it had nothing more to add. 
I contacted both parties once I had reviewed the new information and indicated that it didnt 
change what I said in my provisional decision. 
I am now in a position to issue my final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having listened to the various calls made to HSBC by Mr J, I think its clear that he was 
trying to do all he could on the day he applied for the card to make sure his journey to buy 
the watch wasnt wasted and that he wasnt embarrassed in the shop by the card being 
declined. For instance, he let the HSBC adviser know he intended to spend up to the full 
credit limit, that he would be using a payment application and that he would check with the 
shop in question whether they accept those payments. Mr J was, understandably, keen to 
make full use of the 18 month interest free credit period offered by HSBC. 
I know that Mr J said he was told by the first adviser he spoke to on 16 October 2020 that he 
could use the card immediately for the full value of the watch. But, having listened to the call, 
I can see that he was told that the credit card account was ready to be used, but this was 
caveated with an explanation that fraud checks might still happen, as they are automated. 
And that a marker that might pre-warn the bank he was going to make a high value 
transaction couldnt be added to a credit card account. Mr J was also told what steps he 
might need to take should the first attempt to pay be declined.
But I do think Mr J was given the impression that any problems could likely be sorted out as 
they arose. However, Mr J wasnt able to buy the watch on the day he visited the shop in 
spite of the numerous phone calls he made to HSBC. 
It isnt clear what went wrong here. I dont intend to list all of the possible reasons looked into 
by HSBC on the day. I think its enough to say that the HSBC advisers, during the calls 
made by Mr J, took steps to try and find out what was going wrong, so that they could put it 
right, but that didnt happen.
I cant see that any fraud blocks were placed on the account on 16 October 2020. If there 
had been, then I would most likely say that the reality of using credit cards is that there will 
be times when the banks automated fraud system flags transactions, and staff will have to 
take action when that happens. Its often the case that this Service wont interfere with 
security checks being undertaken by banks, even when it causes a consumer some 
inconvenience. 
But, as I said, I cant see that any blocks were placed on the account and given how things 
have gone wrong here, I think its fair to say that Mr J wasnt able to use his credit card 
account on 16 October 2020 because of errors with how HSBC managed his newly opened 
account. 
I dont think were going to get to the bottom of what went wrong on 16 October 2020. But I 
think Mr Js main concern is that he feels he lost out as a result of not being able to buy the 
watch. He said that the watch has increased in value considerably since October 2020 and 
he was denied the opportunity to purchase the watch at a much cheaper price. 
While I appreciate what Mr J is saying here, I am not asking HSBC to compensate him in 
relation to him not being able to purchase the watch. 
Mr J has provided evidence that he bought an identical watch in March 2022 at a cost of 
£31,000. He said this shows he has experienced an actual financial loss rather than a 
potential loss, as suggested by our Investigator. Its clear theres a significant price 
difference between the two watches. But the fact is Mr J didnt suffer a loss at around the 
time he tried to purchase the watch back in October 2020. He bought this other watch around 16 months later, after bringing his complaint to our Service and being told by one of 
our Investigators that he hadnt actually suffered a financial loss. Given this, and that the 
declined transactions in October 2020 are so long after the purchase of the watch in March 
2022, I cant fairly and reasonably conclude that HSBC directly caused Mr J a financial loss 
here.  
I realise Mr J tried a second time to purchase the watch online on 20 October 2020. What 
happened on that day doesnt change my decision that HSBC doesnt need to compensate 
Mr J in relation to the price difference between the watches. So I dont intend to go into any 
detail about what happened then. But I have taken this into consideration when looking at 
whether the amount of compensation offered by HSBC is fair. 
The issue for Mr J is that it wasnt his fault the transactions couldnt be completed and so he 
understandably feels aggrieved that this has happened. HSBC has offered £500 to 
compensate for the embarrassment and inconvenience caused. I can see how Mr J would 
have found the situation in the shop embarrassing. It was also time consuming, and he had 
the inconvenience of having to call HSBC a number of times. This inconvenience was 
repeated on 20 October 2020 and Mr J also had to visit his branch at a later stage to sort out 
a related security issue. I think Mr J also experienced a loss of expectation regarding not 
being able to purchase the watch. But I think the offer of £500 compensation already made 
by HSBC is fair and reasonable for that and I am not asking it to take any further action. 
In my provisional decision I said that Mr J also mentioned that HSBC put a block on his debit 
card at around the same time that he had problems with his credit card. When our 
Investigator issued his assessment, he told Mr J that he hadnt been able to find evidence 
that HSBC had placed blocks on his debit card or current account. Our Investigator also said 
there was no evidence Mr J asked HSBC about using the funds from his current account to 
make the purchase. So our Investigator didnt look further into this matter. I said that if Mr J 
wanted this Service to look into this further, then I would encourage him to provide any 
additional information he might have, and I would consider it when making my final decision. 
Mr J provided more information and I want to assure him that Ive taken everything into 
consideration. But it doesnt change the outcome here. Although Mr J now feels strongly that 
he would have used his debit card to buy the watch if he could have, the evidence from 
October 2020 doesnt make me think this was the case. Ill explain this further.  
The issue is not simply whether a block was placed on Mr Js debit card, its whether 
Mr J would have used his debit card to buy the watch when the transaction couldnt be 
completed using his credit card and whether he was prevented from doing this. 
HSBC hasnt been able to provide a copy of the call Mr J had with its fraud team on 
20 October 2020, when he was trying to use the credit card for a second time. Mr J thought 
this call would show that he was told his debit card was blocked. I dont doubt Mr Js 
recollection of the call, and so it might well have been the case that he was told his debit 
card was blocked. Although I note, having seen copies of Mr Js current account statements, 
that he was able to use his current account during this period, so this was not blocked. But 
the issue here is whether he was prevented from buying the watch because he thought he 
couldnt use his debit card, and I dont think any block that might have been placed on his 
debit card contributed to him not being able to buy the watch. 
Mr J had several telephone conversations with HSBC advisers after it was suggested to him 
by the fraud team on 20 October 2020 that his debit card might have been blocked. Broadly 
speaking, the same credit card issues were discussed in these calls. So, focusing on just 
one of these calls that took place on 21 October 2020, I can see that Mr J mentioned his 
debit card and the contact with the fraud team, but its clear his focus was on resolving the issue with his credit card. In the same call Mr J outlines his complaint against HSBC and, 
again, this is focused on the problems he had using his credit card. Its my understanding 
that Mr J had only a small window of time during which he could buy the watch and I cant 
see that he tried to use his debit card during that time, that he told HSBC he wanted to use 
his debit card if the issue with his credit card couldnt be resolved or that he asked HSBC to 
resolve any issues with his debit card. 
This Services remit is to look at whether HSBC made any errors or acted unfairly in how 
they dealt with Mr J. For the reasons outlined above, I cant see that HSBC denied Mr J the 
opportunity of using his debit card to buy the watch. 
I know Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, but I am not asking HSBC to take any 
further action.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman