DRN-4120448
The complaint
Mr A complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) wont refund over £2,900 he lost to a HMRC 
impersonation scam in August 2022.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr A authorised the two disputed payments he made to his Wise 
account using his MBNA credit card (where his funds were subsequently transferred on 
to the scammer from his Wise account). I appreciate Mr A was tricked into making these 
payments thinking he was paying money owed to HMRC. But the payments were 
requested using his legitimate security credentials provided by MBNA, and the starting 
position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for 
legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether MBNA should have done more to prevent Mr A from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr A has lost over £2,900. But this amount wasnt paid in one 
large or out of character transaction. It was spread over two separate smaller 
increments which, in my judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or out 
of character such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that 
he might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. The payments were not large 
enough that either of them could be considered significantly unusual. And while I 
appreciate that two payments were made to Mr As Wise account on the same day, I 
dont think the pattern or cumulative value of these payments ought to have concerned 
MBNA either.  
So, having considered the payments Mr A made to his Wise account, Im not persuaded 
there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered MBNAs fraud monitoring 
systems, or that would have indicated he was in the process of being scammed
I also dont think there was anything more MBNA couldve done to recover the money 
either. A chargeback claim wouldnt have been successful given Mr A had used his credit 
card to pay money into another of his own accounts, which was successfully deposited. 
Its also not clear if Mr A has made a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. However, it seems that any Section 75 claim would also likely fail given Mr A first 
paid money to his Wise account before transferring it to the scammer, which would break 
the debtor-creditor-supplier chain required for such a claim to succeed. 
Mr A has also made reference to the Contingent Reimbursement Model as he considers 
his money should be refunded in line with the Code. However, the CRM Code only 
applies to authorised push payments; it does not apply to debit or credit card payments. 
The firm complained about also has to be a signatory to the Code. So, Im afraid the 
payments made from Mr As MBNA credit card do not fall within the scope of the CRM 
Code for reimbursement. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr A, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold MBNA liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman