DRN-3689025
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint concerns his Contracts for Difference (CFD) trading account held with 
Monecor (London) Ltd trading as ETX Capital (ETX). He says:
ETXs temporary closure of online trading in its Brent Crude Oil CFD contract (Brent 
contract) prevented him from seeing his positions, leaving him in the dark. 
He called ETX straightaway following the change to phone trading only but there was 
no answer, which left him with no chance to sell his positions or top up his account to 
ensure his positions remained open. 
Once online trading in the contract was restored after 14 minutes, Mr Hs trades were 
closed straightaway resulting in a loss of over £58,000. 
He feels ETX setting trading to phone-only and subsequently not answering his call caused 
him this financial loss.  
What happened
On 9 March 2022 Mr H opened several buy positions in ETXs Brent contract. Later that day, 
between 5:20pm and 5:34pm, its trading platform suffered technical difficulties due to high 
levels of volatility in the price of Brent Crude Oil. This resulted in it temporarily setting trading 
in its Brent contract to phone-only. This being so, Mr H couldnt trade or see his open 
positions in the Brent contracts online and was required to call ETX to instruct trades.  
Mr H called ETX at 5:34pm, but he said there was no reply. The call lasted nine seconds 
before he abandoned it. His positions were closed by margin closures when online trading in 
the Brent contract was restored around the same time. 
Mr H felt ETX not answering his call left him with no chance to sell the stock or top up his 
account margin, so he raised a complaint. ETX issued its final response concluding it had 
acted appropriately and in accordance with its terms and conditions, so it didnt uphold his 
complaint. 
Mr H didnt accept ETXs response and referred his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator didnt think ETX needed to take any further action. In brief, she said:
ETX didnt guarantee its platform would always be available and it put a notice on its 
website stating it could be contacted by telephone instead. She therefore felt it had 
acted in accordance with its terms and conditions in this regard. 
Although Mr H said he tried to call ETX straightaway and there was no reply, his call 
occurred at 5:34pm, 14 minutes after online trading in the Brent contract was 
restricted, and it lasted nine seconds. She noted that ETXs terms and conditions 
stated high call volumes were to be expected during such times. So, she didnt think 
a nine second wait evidenced that thered been a problem with ETXs phone service, 
and she didnt think it was fair to say ETX hadnt adhered to its terms and conditions. 
She also felt that because Mr H called 14 minutes after the outage first started, just 
as the situation was resolved, he wouldnt have had time to prevent the margin 
closures.
In any event, she hadnt been provided with evidence of Mr H having had funds 
available to top up his margin and prevent a margin call. 
As Mr H didnt deposit funds or sell his positions, the action taken by ETX to 
automatically close his positions was in accordance with its terms and conditions. 
Mr H didnt accept the investigators view and provided further submissions in support of his 
complaint. In brief, he said:
He thinks ETX shouldnt have sold all his positions. He said if hed been able to, he 
might have sold before the margin closures, or added cash, and would still have 
£25,000 in his account. 
He also noted that he couldve deposited up to £10,000 from his credit card or used 
money from his savings but he didnt get the chance as his positions were closed 
when he had no control of contact. 
He reiterated that despite trading in Brent being set to phone-only, he couldnt 
contact ETX by telephone and he felt ETX not answering his call was in breach of its 
terms and conditions. He says had he got through he couldve found out what was 
happening and made a decision. 
However, this didnt persuade the investigator to alter her position, as her view remained that 
ETX hadnt done anything wrong and she felt the outcome of her assessment was fair and 
reasonable based on the situation.  
Mr H remained dissatisfied and reiterated that his calls to ETX werent answered so he 
couldnt trade by phone. 
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, the matter has been referred to 
me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied ETX acted reasonably by restricting trading in the Brent 
contract to phone-only. I think it was entitled to do so, in line with its terms and conditions 
and regulatory obligations, and it was a pragmatic course of action in the circumstances. 
Im further satisfied that the automatic margin closures it actioned on Mr Hs account after 
on-line trading was restored were also in line with its terms and conditions and regulatory 
obligations. At the time, he had insufficient margin and the closures served to protect him 
from incurring losses in excess of his available funds, providing him with the negative 
balance protection as required of ETX by the FCA.  
But all that said, I think its fair to say that the crux of Mr Hs complaint is that, having 
switched trading in the Brent contract to phone-only, ETX then failed to provide an adequate 
service. In short, he was unable to get through to it, so could do nothing to prevent the 
margin closures of his positions. 
Looking at the evidence, I can see that although Mr H made three calls to ETX on the day in 
question, only one of these was made during the 14 minute outage. And, as noted, it came 
at 17:34, right as the outage was ending and the automatic margin closures were about to happen. So, it doesnt appear to have been the case that Mr H was trying to get through 
during the outage and prevented from doing so because of issues with ETXs phone service. 
Even the single 17:34 call was abandoned by him after nine seconds and not because of a 
problem at ETXs end.   
As such, I dont think the evidence supports a finding that ETX failed to provide a reasonable 
phone service during the outage. Theres nothing to indicate that if Mr H had called earlier, 
he wouldnt have been answered. And even if his 17:34 call had been answered I dont think 
we wouldve had time to take any action to prevent the margin closures as it wouldve been 
too late. Id add that, even if he had called earlier and spoken to someone, it would be 
difficult to conclude that hed have been able to avoid the closures as, while hes said he 
wouldve been able to add funds to his account, hes not provided evidence that I feel 
supports this.    
As such, in summary, I find:
  
Im satisfied ETXs terms entitled it to switch to phone-only trading and this was a 
reasonable course of action considering the market situation.
Im further satisfied ETX correctly closed Mr Hs positions, in accordance with its 
terms and regulatory requirements.
In respect of the crux of the complaint, Mr H not being able to contact ETX by phone 
and being denied the opportunity to close position or add funds, Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence that ETXs telephone service was inadequate.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman