DRN-2767122
The complaint
Mr N complains about success fees Allay Claims Ltd charged him for payment protection 
insurance (PPI) claims. He says he didnt give Allay authority to represent him.
What happened
In late 2019 and early 2020, Allay invoiced Mr N for success fees after he received 
settlements for PPI claims made to various lenders. In April 2020, Mr N asked Allay to 
reduce the fees and allow him to pay them in 12 monthly instalments. He said he was in 
financial difficulty due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
 
Allay didnt agree to a fee reduction or payment plan. It sent Mr N a copy of a letter of 
authority (LOA) it said Mr N had signed. Allay said Mr N had agreed to the fee. It said the 
invoices were issued prior to lockdown restrictions being set in place. Mr N had obtained a 
large sum of money (from the PPI claims) and he would have £11,660 left over once he paid 
Allays fees.
Mr N then raised concerns about the signature on the copy of the LOA Allay had sent him. 
He said it wasnt his. Allay said the LOA was signed electronically using a computer, tablet 
or phone. These types of signature differ to a wet (pen to paper) signature. It said the 
signature was inputted into the LOA for each lender Mr N had requested Allay look into 
simultaneously. Allay said Mr N had opted into its service and had given it permission to 
pursue his PPI claims.
Mr N said he couldnt remember electronically signing a web application and referred his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She thought Mr N was likely to have submitted the request for the PPI check and had given 
Allay authority to submit PPI claims on his behalf. She was satisfied Mr N had been made 
aware of the fee as it was stated in Allays terms and conditions. She said it was usual for 
this amount to be kept aside from the redress to cover the fee.
 
Mr N disagreed with our investigators view. He said Allay had no authority to use his 
personal information and deal with the lenders regarding PPI on his behalf. He couldnt 
remember completing a free PPI check. He was concerned that Allay hadnt been fully 
transparent because it didnt promptly send him copies of the online form and the LOA he is 
said to have signed. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr N says he cant remember completing an application for a PPI check online. Hes 
particularly concerned that the signature on the LOA might not be his. 
It isnt our role to consider whether a signature is genuine or not, that would be for a criminal 
court to decide. Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the 
courts. This means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more 
weight on one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all of 
the information were given. Where there is a different version of events, as is the case here, 
I have to base my decision on what I think most likely happened. And I need to determine 
whether its more likely Mr N had authorised Allay to act on his behalf. And if he had, 
whether he let it know he no longer wanted it to work for him.
Allay has shown an online application for a free PPI check was made in July 2019. The 
personal details in the application match the details Mr N has given this service. The 
application also required details of lenders Mr N wanted to raise PPI claims against and 
these details were provided. So, on balance I think Mr N completed the online form as the 
information was specific to him. As I think Mr N completed the application, I have no reason 
to doubt that he also added his signature for the application to be submitted. 
Allays terms and conditions were also available to see. And in signing the LOA, Mr N had 
agreed to them.
Allays terms and conditions say:
We will notify you once PPI has been identified and submit your complaint to the lender. If 
the claim is successful, our normal fee, as per this Terms of Engagement, will apply.
Allay says it requested further information from Mr N by text message in August 2019 and  
Mr N completed an online PPI questionnaire in September 2019. The completed 
questionnaire includes information about Mr Ns employment details at the time he 
purchased PPI. Given that this information is specific to Mr N, I think hes likely to have 
provided it himself. And I dont think Mr N would have done so, if he hadnt asked Allay to 
pursue his PPI claims on his behalf.
I can also see that the lenders sent copies of their settlement letters to Allay. I think this 
shows that they accepted that Allay had authority to represent Mr N in his PPI claims.
I appreciate Mr N feels that this situation could have been avoided if Allay had sent him a 
copy of the online form and signed LOA at the time of the application. But this wasnt 
something it was required to do.
Having carefully considered the information provided by both parties, Im satisfied, on 
balance, that Mr N authorised Allay to act on his behalf in pursuing his PPI claims. 
Allays terms and conditions also say: From the point we submit your complaint, you have a 
14 day cooling off period during which you can cancel your contract with us. And I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest Mr N attempted to cancel his agreement within or after the 14 
day cooling off period.
I appreciate Mr N feels Allays fees are high in relation to the amount of work it did on his 
behalf. But Allays terms and conditions clearly set out the fee as 24% (inclusive of VAT 
where applicable) of redress recovered... Allay made it clear that the agreement with Mr N 
was on a No Win, No Fee basis. So, the fee didnt need to reflect the amount of work or 
time Allay spent on his case. Ive also considered Mr Ns request that Allay allow him to pay his fees in instalments. Wed 
expect a claims management company to treat its customers fairly and sympathetically 
where they are struggling to pay fees for a service provided. In this case, the total 
compensation Mr N received directly from his lenders was higher than the fees Allay have 
charged. So, I think it was reasonable for Allay to have asked for its success fees to be paid 
in full, in line with its terms and conditions.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr N, but overall, I think Allay has acted fairly and 
reasonably. Im satisfied that Allay was authorised by Mr N to act on his behalf and the 
claims were successful. This means Allay can charge their fees for these claims.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman