DRN-3328874
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy a broker didnt provide her with adequate information about entering into a
conditional sale agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays
Partner Finance (BPF). Ms A says she feels she was misled.
Ms A is represented in this complaint by one of her daughters. But for ease, Ill refer to Ms A
throughout my decision.
What happened
Ms A says she believes she was misled into entering into a conditional sale agreement for a
used car in May 2019. The total amount repayable under the agreement was £20,901.37 for
a term of 48 months. The monthly repayments were £287.71. The application for the finance
was arranged through a broker Ill refer to as D.
Ms A says her daughter wanted to go and have a look at a car she intended to acquire once
she got her full driving licence, so Ms A went with her. Ms A says her daughter chose and
test drove a car that she liked. Ms A left her daughter to have a conversation with the
dealership about this car  Ms A says she wasnt part of this conversation.
Ms A says the dealership carried out a credit check on her daughter, but this wasnt
successful. So instead, the dealership called Ms A over and said they needed to carry out a
credit check on Ms A which she passed. As a result, Ms A says she was then given some
paperwork to complete and sign instead of her daughter. Ms A says no explanation was
given to her about the documents and when she requested the opportunity to take them
away with her so that she could review them in detail at home, she was told this wasnt
possible. Ms A says she told the dealership at this point she didnt want anything to do with
the acquiring of the car and didnt want her name on any of the documents. But the
dealership reassured her this wasnt the case and that she was just acting as a guarantor for
her daughter. Ms A says the dealership told her the best way for this arrangement to work
was that her daughter would pay her the monthly repayments each month. Ms A says she 
doesnt recall ever seeing or signing the conditional sale agreement.
Ms A says she and her daughter were asked to come back to the dealership the following
day to sign further paperwork and to collect the car. BPF havent been able to provide us
with details of the paperwork and Ms A says she remembers seeing a pre-collection check
list which she provided us with a copy of. This is an information document providing general
information about ways to pay for the car which is addressed to Ms As daughter. There is no
signature on this document. Ms A says when she arrived, she was told to just sign them in
relation to the other paperwork she was handed. Ms A says no explanation was given about
the documents she signed on this day or the previous day.
Ms As daughter went missing with the car in July 2019 and Ms A reported this to the police
on the same day in an attempt to find her daughter. Ms A says she also contacted the
dealership to ask them how she could trace the car as both her daughter and the car were
missing. Ms A was told this wasnt possible and that her daughter shouldnt be driving the
car as the agreement was in Ms As name. It was at this point Ms A realised the agreement
was in her name and not her daughters. Ms A reported the matter to Action Fraud.
Upon finding this out, Ms A contacted BPF directly early August 2019 to ask if they could
transfer the agreement into her daughters name as she never wanted the agreement in her
name. Ms A says her daughter returned with the car after some time and has asked for BPF
to stop asking her to make the monthly repayments and to collect the car. Ms A says two
payments had been made towards the agreement.
Ms A says both her and her daughter were told by the dealership that Ms A was just acting
as a guarantor but that the conditional sale agreement would be in her daughters name. Ms
A says even then, she didnt understand what being a guarantor meant and that she didnt
know she would be responsible for the repayments if her daughter failed to make them. Ms
A says she thought being a guarantor meant she was only required to provide a reference
for her daughter. Ms A says she feels the dealership have misled her by making it seem like
they were simply using her bank account for the direct debit payments, since her daughter
wasnt eligible for the finance herself. Ms A says she was never told the agreement would be
in her name by the dealership. And had she known this; she never would have agreed to
allowing this to happen.
BPF contacted D for further information about the sales process at the time. D say Ms A
completed the application electronically and that the application process is designed so that
a prospective customer logs in and answers a series of questions about their credit profile. D
said Ms A would have been required to input certain information such as her drivers licence
number  which they expect only Ms A had access to.
As a result, BPF said Ms A was liable for the payments under the agreement. Additionally,
BPF say they dont offer a guarantor facility, so this wouldnt have been discussed at the
time with Ms A.
In August 2019, Ms A says she offered to hand the car back to BPF, but BPF asked her to
accept liability prior to doing. But Ms A didnt want to do this as she reiterated that she never
agreed to have the conditional sale agreement in her name.
The agreement was then terminated in September 2021 and BPF have said Ms A hadnt
made any payments since July 2019 and still hasnt returned the car. I can see from BPFs
contact notes that Ms A says she tried to get the dealership to take the car back to sell it but
had no luck. BPF advised Ms A she can go to other dealerships instead. Ms A says she
returned the car to a dealership in 2019 and that it has been there ever since. Ms A provided
us with the contact details of this dealership, which Ill share with BPF. The current balance
outstanding on the account is £20,326.95 of which £8,329.09 is now classed as arrears. BPF 
have confirmed the account has been defaulted with a default date of 8 September 2021 and
that they are currently preparing to repossess the car.
Our Investigator looked into Ms As concerns. Ultimately, he said even if Ms A thought she
was entering into the agreement as a guarantor for her daughter, she wouldnt be in a
different position had the agreement been arranged like Ms A thought. He said this was
because shed still be responsible for the repayments under the agreement if her daughter
failed to make them. Our Investigator also assessed the affordability of the agreement and
concluded that while BPF didnt carry out proportionate checks, had they done so, he didnt
think this would have shown that the finance was unaffordable for Ms A. So, our Investigator
said that he didnt think BPF had acted unfairly by providing an agreement to Ms A and there
wasnt anything to suggest Ms A was misled into entering into the agreement. As a result,
Ms A remains liable for the amount owing under the agreement.
Ms A disagreed with our investigators view. In summary, she said the crux of her complaintwas that the agreement was drawn up in her name against her wishes. And that she
wouldnt have chosen to take out a finance agreement in any way. Ms A also maintained that
she made the dealership aware she never wanted anything in her name and didnt want to
pay anything towards the agreement. Ms A reiterated she was told shed be a guarantor for
her daughter and that she didnt electronically sign the credit agreement. Ms A also said she
was financially vulnerable due to her previous inexperience with large purchases, lack of
sophistication with financial products and there was an element of a language barrier there.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision setting out the below:
Quite a lot of the information Ive been provided with is conflicting and Im never going to be
able to determine exactly what happened here. Where information is inconclusive or facts
are in dispute, Im required to make my decision on a balance of probabilities. The issue at
the heart of this complaint is whether Ms A agreed to have her name on the conditional sale
agreement or not and whether she was given adequate information about this at the point of
supply. Ive carefully thought about what both Ms A and BPF have said, but Im more
persuaded by Ms As testimony. And Ill explain why.
Is it fair for Ms A to be held liable for an agreement she says she had no knowledge of? And
was Ms A provided with adequate information about this agreement?
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law, regulations
and guidance. Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S56) is relevant to this
complaint. This explains that, under certain circumstances, a finance provider is liable for
what is or isnt said by a broker before a consumer enters into an agreement. Im satisfied
here that S56 means BPF are responsible for what Ms A was or wasnt told by D in relation
to the conditional sale agreement. So, with that in mind, Ill go on to consider if Ms A was
given adequate information about the agreement.
Ms A has acknowledged she thought she was entering into something  but she thought she
was acting as a guarantor. I note some of Ms As details were obtained for the purposes of
the application, such as her direct debit details and place of work. However, Ms A says the
dealer left the room with her card without an explanation and that she didnt provide her
employer name, just her role and town of where she worked. But due to the industry she
worked in, there was only one of this kind in the town she mentioned so she believes the
dealer was able to work out the name of her employer. I also note Ms A agreed for a credit
check to be carried out on her.
However, Ms A has been consistent throughout in saying she repeatedly told the dealership
she didnt want her name on the agreement and didnt want any involvement in the finance.
Ms A and her daughter were under the impression that Ms A was simply acting as a
guarantor, although I appreciate BPF say they dont offer a guarantor facility. Ms A has also
been able to give a thorough account of what happened and what she told the dealership at
the time in not wanting to have her name on any of the finance. Ms A says she wouldnt
have agreed to this as she doesnt earn much and regularly supports family members
abroad by sending money to them. So, she wouldnt have agreed to taking out a financial
commitment such as this as she needed to use her money for other important things. I can
see from Ms As bank statement that she was sending a considerable amount of money per
month via money transfer providers to different personal named accounts, which I think
evidences what Ms A has told us.
Ms A has also consistently told us that she never saw the credit agreement and doesnt
agree she electronically signed the agreement. BPF have said D told them this process
would have been carried out and completed at Ms As home, rather than at the dealership.Ms A has told us she didnt have a computer at home, so theres no way she wouldve
completed the application and signed the agreement as D have suggested. Ive looked at the
process D have provided us with where they say Ms A wouldve needed to sign into the
portal and electronically sign the conditional sale agreement.
I can see at the start of this process there are a set of security questions that Ms A wouldve
needed to verify. These questions asked certain personal information about Ms As credit
history such as how long shed lived in her current address, how long shed had her mobile
phone contract etc. And gave Ms A multiple choice answers. The next page of this process
says that because some of the answers didnt match the information that was held about Ms
A, another set of questions were being asked. But I cant see that the next set of questions
were answered correctly. Nor what answers were selected in response to these questions.
Instead, the following page asks Ms A for her driving licence number.
D have told us they have no way of determining what driving licence number was entered,
as the field for where this information goes is blank. But they have said it would have had to
have matched Ms As otherwise it wouldnt have proceeded to the security questions.
However, from the application process, the security questions appear before the driving
licence number was required to be inputted. The next page following the driving licence
number page is the pre-contract credit information. So, the evidence provided contradicts
what D have told us. In any case, I understand D have said the driving licence number
information cant be shared due to security reasons. But given other sensitive information
has been provided in the same application process such as Ms As bank details, I dont find
Ds explanation satisfactory. And I cant be sure that Ms As driving licence number was
provided, especially as she says shes never seen this process before. Even if Id seen
information to show Ms As licence number had been inputted, overall, Im not persuaded Ms
A did complete this process which includes electronically signing the conditional sale
agreement. I say this because the security questions were answered incorrectly, I havent
seen anything to suggest these questions were then answered correctly and Im persuaded
by the consistency of Ms As testimony.
Ms A has been specific in telling us what documents she was given at the time and says
these were handed to her in an envelope  she says these were car key insurance
documentation, GAP insurance policy and the vehicle registration document. But Ms A
hasnt been able to provide us with copies of these. Other paperwork was given to her
daughter and also some follow up information about the car was sent to her daughter via her
daughters email address  which Ive seen copies of. Ms A says she was never given a
copy of the conditional sale agreement and contacted BPF to request a copy of this. I can
see from BPFs contact notes that this happened in March 2021. An unsigned copy of the
agreement was supplied to Ms A in March 2021 and an electronically signed copy was
provided in April 2021. Ms A has also been consistent in telling us she didnt feel she was
given an opportunity to read through the documents she was being asked to sign and felt
rushed to sign them. So, she didnt have enough time to consider the documents further.
And I think had she been more adequately informed about the conditional sale agreement at
the time, Im persuaded that Ms A would have raised questions about this.
BPF have acknowledged its possible Ms A would have had to sign some dealer specific
paperwork about the car itself at the time of supply but havent been able to provide us with
the documents or the specifics of those documents. Ms A hasnt been able to provide us with
copies of these neither. So, I cant be sure what documents Ms A was being asked to sign at
the time. But Ms A has provided us with a copy of a pre-collection check list that was
addressed to her daughter. On balance, given Ms As testimony about what she told the
dealership about not wanting any involvement in the acquiring of the car, Im persuaded by
what Ms A told us that had she been given the time and opportunity to read the documents,
she would have realised D had the agreement in her name and shed have discussed herconcerns about this with them.
Ms A says two payments were made towards the agreement before she found out that the
agreement was in her name. When being told by the dealership that her daughter shouldnt
be driving the car as the agreement was in Ms As name, Ms A contacted BPF. Ive had a
look at BPFs contact notes and I can see Ms A called them in August 2019. The notes say
that Ms A says she was misled by the dealership as she was told she would be acting as a
guarantor for her daughter. The notes also detail that Ms A reported matters to the police (a
crime reference number has been noted) as her daughter had gone missing with the car and
that Ms A said she felt tricked into entering into the agreement as she was only doing what
she was told by the dealership. Following this call, theres further calls made by Ms A to
BPF. And I can see the contact notes say Ms A was very upset as she was completely
unaware of the finance agreement being in her name and asked if the agreement could be
transferred over to her daughters name. But BPF said this wouldnt have been possible and
that they were unable to help Ms A further. Ms A also repeatedly tells BPF she told the
dealership she didnt want anything in her name and that she wasnt given the opportunity to
really read what she was being asked to sign. Not only does this corroborate what Ms A told
us that she didnt realise the agreement was in her name, these are actions of someone who
I think has been misled. I say this because she contacts BPF the moment she realises the
agreement was in her name and repeatedly tells BPF she never agreed to this. Overall, I
think BPF could have taken more steps to investigate things given Ms A repeatedly called
them, saying the same thing about her recollections of events and that she never agreed to
have the finance agreement in her name.
Ms A also says she was given a form by BPF in order to voluntary terminate the agreement
and return the car. But that this required her to accept liability of the agreement first. Ms A
says she didnt sign this form and has provided us with a blank copy of the form as she didnt
want to accept liability for something she never signed for. Having read BPFs contact notes,
I can see Ms A tells BPF the same thing  in that she doesnt want to fill out the voluntary
termination form as this would mean shes accepting liability for the agreement which she
feels she was misled into entering into. I think this is further evidence that Ms As testimony
has been consistent.
Ms A says BPF spoke to a dealership who offered to try and sell the car for her as she no
longer wanted anything to do with it. Although, Im not sure what dealership BPF spoke to.
Ms A dropped the car off at a dealership in August 2019 and I understand its been there
ever since. Having looked at the details of this dealership, it doesnt look like its the same
dealership that supplied the car. But I think this is as a result of BPF advising Ms A she can
take the car to another dealership to see if she can sell it. As Ms A provided us with this
dealerships contact details, we contacted them to find out where the car was. They said it
has been with them for some time as Ms A had dropped it off which corroborates what Ms A
told us. Having thought about this, I think this behaviour is consistent with someone who
feels they were misled. I say this because I dont think Ms A would have taken this action if
she wanted to have her name on the agreement.
I can see from BPFs contact notes Ms A let them know in October 2019 that shed dropped
the car off at a dealership and that she would only go and get the car if BPF transferred the
agreement into her daughters name. BPF reiterated that they couldnt allow this to happen.
So, I think its reasonable to believe BPF were aware at this point that neither Ms A nor her
daughter were in possession of the car. So, I think they shouldve taken more steps at this
point to take possession of the car.
Information about Ms A and her circumstances at the time of application
Turning to the information that was supplied in the application of this agreement. From theinternal screenshot provided by BPF, I can see some of Ms As details dont appear to be
correct. Firstly, Ms As role is noted down as an accounts manager for a shop. But Ms A
has provided us with a letter confirming her role as a team member. Also, her gross annual
income has been noted down as £398,894.91 with her net monthly income noted down as
£14,506.00. Ms A has provided us with evidence showing she was earning around £330 a
week.
BPF say they based their affordability assessment on Ms As declared income and existing
credit commitments. BPF have also said there was an error on Ds systems in that they
recorded an annual income of £398,894.91, but they dont know how that happened. BPF
recognise the monthly income figure provided for Ms A was £14,506.00. BPF say their
lending decisions are all made using the monthly income figure plus a credit check alongside
how much the monthly repayments under the finance are.
CONC 5.2A.36(R) clearly sets out: A firm must not accept an application for credit under a
regulated credit agreement where the firm knows or has reasonable cause to suspect that
the customer has not been truthful in completing the application in relation to information
relevant to the creditworthiness assessment.
With regards to this rule, I acknowledge that it is intended for customers whove misled
businesses to get credit. In this case, it doesnt look like Ms A looked to deceive BPF to get
credit and it may have been an inputting mistake by D. But even so, the income declared
didnt likely correlate with the rest of Ms As credit file. I say this because the amounts being
declared during the application process were significantly higher than Id potentially expect
for the industry Ms A worked in. Even if BPF dont take into account the annual income like
they say, they take into account the monthly income that was declared which again seems
unlikely for the role and industry Ms A worked in. So, I think its reasonable to think that
questions should have been raised at this point and more could have been done when BPF
carried out their checks. This might have meant Ms A was given further information at which
point she may have decided not to carry on.
Overall, I dont think what happened here is straightforward. And I appreciate Ms A didnt
complain about things as soon as the car was taken away from the dealership. I understand
BPF have said Ms A would have known she was liable for the repayments one way or
another, even if she thought she was acting as a guarantor. But the crux of Ms As complaint
is that she never knew her name was on the conditional sale agreement. Having thought
about everything, Ms A has been really consistent throughout that she never wanted to have
the agreement in her name and her version of events havent changed over time. On
balance, Im not persuaded Ms A was adequately informed at the point of supply that her
name was going to be on the conditional sale agreement. So, I currently dont think Ms A
should be held liable for this agreement.
Putting things right
Ive next thought about what BPF should do to put things right. I understand Ms A made two
payments towards the agreement. BPF have confirmed Ms A hadnt made any payments
since July 2019. As Ms As daughter had use of the car in the two months those payments
were made, I currently wont be recommending Ms A get a refund of these payments.
As Im persuaded by Ms As version of events at the time and because I dont think Ms A
was adequately informed about the conditional sale agreement at the point of supply, I think
BPF should stop pursuing Ms A for the outstanding amount. As Ive explained, I dont think
Ms A would have agreed to the agreement had she been given all the information. So, I think
BPF should remove all information about this agreement from Ms As credit file  thisincludes removing the default.
BPF say theyre currently waiting to obtain a return of goods order so they can carry out a
forced repossession of the car. BPF say theyve done this as they dont know why Ms A has
chosen not to return the car herself. As explained, Ms A doesnt want to fill out the form
which requires her to accept liability of this agreement. And I can understand why Ms A has
done this given Im persuaded by her testimony that she didnt know the agreement was
going to be in her name. With this in mind, I think BPF should contact the dealership that the
car is currently at and arrange collection of the car at no cost to Ms A.
Ms A has told us this has caused her tremendous anxiety, especially as she never knew an
agreement was taken out in her name. Ms A has been trying to resolve this since 2019 and
appointed a legal representative as well as her other daughter in an attempt to try and
resolve things quickly. Also, Ms A has told us her creditworthiness has been impacted as a
result of the default on her credit file. Ms A has provided us with a letter from her bank where
theyve told her theyre going to lower her credit limit as they didnt think she was able to
repay the amount she was borrowing. I can understand Ms As disappointment in finding this
out, but lenders take several factors into account when deciding whether to lower a credit
limit, so I cant be sure that this decision was made as a direct result of the default by BPF.
Although, I appreciate a default can impact this decision. As previously explained, I dont
think Ms A was given adequate information about the agreement. And had this happened, I
dont think Ms A would have entered into the agreement. With all this in mind, I currently
think BPF should award £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
BPF responded to my provisional decision and agreed with my recommendation. BPF also 
asked if Ms A can facilitate the collection of the car by instructing the garage where it is 
being held to release the car to their collection agents and by ensuring that all spare keys 
and the V5 document are made available to the collection agents.
Ms A responded and also accepted my provisional decision. Ms A did note that her other 
daughter paid off her credit card entirely to help relieve some stress when Ms A found out 
the agreement was in her name. And that she hasnt used the credit card since 2019. Ms A 
also said she doesnt have any other outstanding loans and her salary hasnt really changed, 
so the only thing that would have affected her creditworthiness is the default marker on her 
credit file by BPF.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Ms As point that her creditworthiness has been impacted by the default and as 
I said in my provisional decision, a default is something lenders may take into account when 
making lending decisions. But I havent seen anything to show me Ms As credit limit was 
lowered as a direct result of the default on her credit file. And without that evidence, Im not 
able to make that finding.
I understand BPF have asked that Ms A to provide any spare keys and the V5 document of 
the car. I think if Ms A is able to comply with this then Id expect her to. If not, I still think BPF 
should carry out the actions as set out below.Putting things right
My position on how BPF should put things right for Ms A remains the same as I set out in my 
provisional decision. But for ease, Ive detailed the actions they should take here. BPF 
should:
Stop pursuing Ms A for the outstanding amount due under the conditional sale 
agreement.
Remove all information about the agreement from Ms As credit file  this includes 
removing the default.
Contact the dealership the car is currently at and arrange collection of the car at no 
cost to Ms A. Ive provided the dealership contact details to BPF.
Pay Ms A £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. And I require
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance to carry out the
actions as set out in the Putting things right section of this final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman