DRN-1613719
 
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) following his request that they write off his credit card balance.
What happened
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Mr H and Nationwide so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think its relevant to the issues. 
However in summary it is this; 
In January 2018 Mr H applied for, and then obtained, a credit card with Nationwide. It had a 
credit limit of £3,300. The application form records that he stated he was a self-employed 
driving instructor with annual earnings of £43,680. The form also records that the 
employment had started in January 2018.
In September 2018 Mr H wrote to Nationwide and asked them to write off his credit card 
debt. Nationwide put in place a nil repayment plan so that Mr H didnt have to make any 
repayments to the debt. Nationwide later wrote to Mr H on a number of occasions and also 
tried to call him but, he did not respond. So, Nationwide initiated their debt collection 
process. 
Nationwide also said it had considered that based on the information Mr H had provided in 
his initial letter they couldnt write off the debt. However Nationwide did accept that there had 
been a problem in their dealing with his request which had caused delay and for that they 
apologised and paid him £100 in compensation, for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr H was unhappy with Nationwides response and so brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into it but didnt think Nationwide had acted unfairly in relation to Mr 
H's write off request. The investigator also found that the amount of compensation paid to Mr 
H had been fair and reasonable. 
As Mr H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to 
award redress where it is appropriate. Im not the industry regulator, and I dont have power 
to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they change their processes, or punish 
them. That is for the Financial Conduct Authority. 
I will consider whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H. I aim 
to address all relevant points with a view to reaching a fair and reasonable decision based on the evidence before me. I take into account both sides' views.  But, where evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, then I have to come to a decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely to have happened in the light 
of the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
I think we have an unfortunate situation here. The application form records Mr H told 
Nationwide he was self-employed. Mr H disputes this and has explained he merely said he 
was looking into training to become a driving instructor. However he has signed the 
application form to confirm the details recorded on it are correct, so it is likely he is mistaken 
in his recollection. Mr H has also told this service that he was working until March 2019. I 
should clarify that although Mr H has said that he feels he was pressured into taking on the 
credit card and that he did not want it, this complaint is only dealing with Nationwides refusal 
to write off the debt. If Mr H wishes to pursue that avenue then it must be dealt with by way 
of separate complaint.
The issue here is whether Nationwide have dealt with Mr H fairly following his request to 
write off the debt. Nationwides first reaction was to place Mr H onto a nil repayment plan 
until February 2019 which is one of the things we would expect a bank to consider doing in 
circumstances like this. Nationwide then attempted to discuss the account further with Mr H 
because they wrote to him and tried to call him. I know Mr H says he didnt receive the 
letters, and I have no reason to doubt him, but equally I have no reason to doubt Nationwide 
when they say they sent them. It is of course possible that the correspondence went astray 
in the post. But Mr H was also called, and although he says he did not get any I am satisfied 
from the evidence provided that Nationwide did attempt to call him.
When a bank knows a customer is in financial difficulties they are obliged to be positive and 
sympathetic towards their situation. The Lending Code sets out some things banks can do 
when a customer is in financial difficulty and that includes things like agreeing to suspend 
repayments for a period to give the customer some breathing space. So in my view I do think 
Nationwide were fair with Mr H by putting in place the nil repayment plan and then trying to 
discuss his debt further with him. 
I have considered whether Nationwide acted fairly in not writing off the debt. The issue here 
is whether there is a prospect of Mr H ever repaying the debt. Mr H was of course working 
until March 2019, and in January 2018, on his own account he said he was considering 
becoming a driving instructor. This indicates that he is able to work and in fact wants to. I 
appreciate his circumstances have changed since he made the application for the credit 
card, but I cannot be satisfied that this means there is no likelihood of Mr H never working 
again. So, on a balance of probabilities, I must conclude that the evidence suggests that it is 
more likely than not that Mr H will resume employment. On that basis I dont think it unfair 
that Nationwide decided not to write off the debt.
Ive also thought about the poor service Mr H received from Nationwide in causing delay to 
his request. Nationwide have accepted their failings and that Mr H should be compensated. 
So, the sole issue is what the correct level of compensation ought to be. In my view the £100 
compensation already paid to Mr H is fair and reasonable. It is in line with the awards this 
service would make for distress and inconvenience in circumstances like these, and I think it 
is enough to put matters right.
So, although Mr H will probably be disappointed with my decision, I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and I cant say Nationwide have acted unfairly and Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decisionNationwide has already paid £100 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances, and I dont require it to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman