DRN-4339701
The complaint
Mrs W complains that a holiday package was misrepresented to her and that the seller is in 
breach of contract. Because she paid for the package using her credit card, issued by Tesco 
Personal Finance PLC (which Ill refer to as Tesco Bank), she says that she has a claim 
against it in the same way as against the seller. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr and Mrs W bought a holiday package from Atlantic Travel Service SLU 
(ATS), a Spanish company. The contract entitled Mr and Mrs W to three weeks 
accommodation at resorts and hotels with which ATS had arrangements. The contract terms 
included:
The holiday package chosen by the purchaser consists of 3 weeks of accommodation in a 
one bedroom apartment with an occupancy for a maximum of four people. Each of these 
weeks as agreed includes 7-day accommodation only, but flight costs, meals, visitors tax, 
etc. are not included.
The first one-week booking is agreed for the hotel Flamingo Beach Resort on Tenerife, from 
09.10.22 to 16.10.22, with a maximum occupancy of four people.

The remaining 2 weeks can be selected from the accommodations offered by the provider.
There followed a list of resorts and hotels in the Canary Islands, mainland Spain, Portugal 
and Thailand. 
Mr and Mrs W have explained that, when they tried to book their stay at the Flamingo Beach 
Resort, they were told that there was no availability. They booked instead at Los Olivos  a 
resort on the providers list. They say they did so because they had already booked flights, 
but that the accommodation was of a lower standard than at the Flamingo Beach resort. 
They have explained too that it was a condition of booking that they attend a holiday club or 
similar presentation during their stay. If they didnt do so, they would have to pay for their 
accommodation. That requirement was not mentioned in the original contract. 
Mrs W says that these matters mean that she and Mr W have claims for breach of contract 
and misrepresentation against ATS and that, because payment was made with her credit 
card, she has a similar claim against Tesco Bank. 
Tesco Bank did not accept the claim. It said that the contract was clear that bookings were 
subject to availability. Accommodation at the Flamingo Beach Resort was not guaranteed. 
Mrs W referred the matter to this service. Our investigator did not recommend that the 
complaint be upheld  for broadly the same reasons as Tesco Bank. Mrs W asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
I did that and issued a provisional decision, in which I said:
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a 
claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a creditor. Those conditions include:
that the credit financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the credit was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
The supplier in this case was ATS. Mrs Ws credit card statement shows a payment on 11 
October 2021 to Travel Service, which I take to be the same company. I am satisfied 
therefore that there was a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement in this case and that section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act could apply. 
I have therefore considered what Ms S has said about the sale contract and the statements 
which led her to enter into it. 
As a matter of English law, a misrepresentation is, broadly speaking, a statement of fact or 
law made by one party to a contract, which (i) is untrue and (ii) induces the other into the 
contract.
The contract here was expressly governed by Spanish law, but I have approached this 
provisional decision on the assumption that Spanish law is not materially different from 
English law, at least insofar as it relates to Mrs Ws complaint. The parties can tell me in their 
response if they believe there are material differences. Section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit 
Act applies to overseas contracts.  
I accept that the sales contract did not refer to the requirement that Mr and Mrs W attend a 
presentation when using the accommodation weeks. I think it unlikely that it was mentioned 
to them at the time. But it was clearly a requirement of booking accommodation; it was set 
out in the booking request. 
I must therefore consider whether a failure to mention that requirement amounted to a 
misrepresentation. 
Generally, a failure to mention something relevant to a contract will not amount to a 
misrepresentation. It is not treated in the same way as a positive statement of fact or law. 
There are exceptions, however. They include, for example, where one party to a contract 
knows that the other is proceeding under a misapprehension about the facts or where there 
is active concealment. 
I very much doubt however that Mr and Mrs W were proceeding here on the (mistaken) 
assumption that they would not have to attend a presentation, still less that ATS knew that. 
Rather, I think it likely that they simply had not addressed the issue. And it may well be that 
ATS chose not to mention sales presentations when selling the holiday package. I do not 
believe however that it was under any legal duty to do so. I do not believe therefore that this 
is a case where a case in misrepresentation can be based on silence. 
I take a different view on the issue of breach of contract, however. The contract clearly said 
that Mr and Mrs W could stay at the Flamingo Beach Resort, and gave the dates on which 
they could do so. I note of course that the contract also said that bookings were subject to 
availability. Given that dates had been included, however, I think that provision referred to 
the accommodation for the remaining two weeks of the package. At best it was ambiguous. In English law, any ambiguity in the wording of a consumer contract is to be construed in 
favour of the consumer  in this case, Mr and Mrs W. That is now set out at section 69 of the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015. I believe that similar provisions apply in Spanish law, since the 
relevant part of the Consumer Rights Act derives from a European directive  Directive 
93/13/EEC. I think it likely therefore that a court would find that it was a term of the contract 
that Mr and Mrs W could stay at the Flamingo Beach Resort on the dates included in the 
contract and that there was a breach of contract when they couldnt. 
That, however, is not the end of the matter. In order to bring a successful claim for breach of 
contract, a party must also show that they have suffered some loss. Mr and Mrs W say that 
the alternative hotel they booked was of a lower standard. That is, to some extent, a 
subjective assessment. Los Olivos  where Mr and Mrs W did stay  was included on the list 
of hotels where Mr and Mrs W could stay, so it was within the broad category and standard 
of accommodation included in the contract. I note that online reviews overall give it a lower 
rating than the Flamingo Beach Resort, but I dont believe I can fairly rely on that to conclude 
that Mr and Mrs W got less than what they paid for  that is, I dont believe they have shown 
that they suffered any financial loss as a result of any breach of contract. 
It is not for me to decide whether ATS was in fact in breach of contract or whether Mrs W 
has a valid claim for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. I must however take 
relevant law into account in deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Having done so here, I think that Tesco Banks response to Mrs Ws claim was reasonable.    
Neither Tesco Bank nor Mrs W responded to my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have received no further evidence or arguments, I see no reason to change my 
conclusions from those set out in my provisional decision. I stress however that I have 
considered the case afresh before reaching this decision.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint and I do not 
require Tesco Personal Finance PLC to do anything more to resolve it.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman