DRN-4417950
The complaint
E has complained about Skyfire Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline a claim
under a motor insurance policy.
E is represented by Mr J, who is a director.
Mr J dealt with Skyfires claim investigation company and the insurance broker who arranged
his policy, who it seems acted for Skyfire. But  for the sake of ease  I have only referred to
Skyfire throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr J took out a policy in his wifes name to cover a vehicle that belonged to E. It was also the
registered keeper. The vehicle was stolen from outside of Mr and Mrs Js home in July 2022
and Mr J made a claim under the policy. Skyfire investigated the claim, conducting two
telephone interviews with Mr J and reviewing the video footage hed provided from his
doorbell camera showing the vehicle being stolen. It then told Mr J it was declining
the claim about eight weeks after he submitted it. It explained this was because of an
exclusion in the policy for theft claims when the vehicle had been left unattended and
unlocked at the time of the theft.
Mr J complained to Skyfire about this and the fact hed not had a refund of premium after his
claim was declined. It responded to his complaint and provided a refund, plus
compensation for its poor communication on the issue. But it didnt respond on his
complaint about the claim being declined. So, Mr J asked us to consider his complaint.
One of our investigators did this. She issued her view on it in which she explained that it
seemed most likely the vehicle was left unlocked at the time it was stolen, which meant she
was satisfied Skyfire was entitled to decline the claim. However, she said its
communication on the claim and around the policy premium issue was poor and it should
pay £300 in compensation in total for the distress and inconvenience Mr J had experienced
as a result of this.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
His main point being that he was sure he either locked or tried to lock the vehicle and either 
it unlocked automatically or a jammer was used to stop him doing so. He made the point
that he could have provided video footage from his doorbell camera to show this if Skyfire
had told him sooner it was going to decline his claim because his vehicle was unlocked.
By the time it did this, it was too late as the footage recorded by the camera was
automatically deleted after 30 days.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 September 2023 in which I set out what Id provisionally 
decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I first reviewed the complaint I realised that the vehicle that is the subject of the claim
belonged to E. This meant I didnt consider either Mr J nor his wife were eligible to complain
about Skyfires decision to turn down the claim, as neither of them had any financial interest
in the vehicle. However, I do consider that E is entitled to complain about the declinature of
the claim, even though the policy it was made under was in the name of Mrs J. This is
because E has suffered a loss and I think the policy should have been taken out in the name
of E.
Ive reviewed the policy terms and like our investigator, I can see that it has the following
exclusion in it relating to theft claims:
What is not covered under Sections 1 and 2:
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if the keys, keyless device or any
other vehicle locking devices are left in or on your car while unattended or left
unattended with the engine running.
Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if the car is unattended without
being properly secured, including windows, roof openings, removable roof panels or
hood.
This exclusion was also highlighted in the Insurance Product Information Document provided
to Mrs J when Mr J took out the policy.
Ive seen the video footage and I think it is clear from this that Es vehicle was unlocked at
the point the thief approached it and this meant he was able to open the door straight away. I
say this because at this point the wing mirrors werent folded in and the indicators didnt flash
as the thief approached the vehicle. Mr J did suggest at one point that if he had forgotten to
lock it when he came back from the supermarket and parked it outside his house, it would
have locked automatically. But, as I understand it, this would not have happened.
So, in my opinion, one of three things must have happened for the vehicle to have been
unlocked at the point the thief gained access to it. Either Mr J forgot to lock it when he came
home from the supermarket with his family. Or he locked it and it unlocked automatically at
some point after this due to some sort of error. Or at the point he tried to lock it someone
was standing nearby with a signal jammer that prevented the signal from the key fob getting
to the vehicle and it locking. This would have left Mr J thinking hed locked it when he
actually hadnt.
And in order for me to be satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable to let Skyfires
decision to reject the claim stand, I need to be satisfied that it has shown it is more likely
than not that Mr J left the vehicle unlocked. I say this because if I was persuaded hed locked
it or thought hed locked it, Id be unlikely to consider it fair for Skyfire to rely on the
abovementioned exclusion to decline the claim. Whereas if he left it unlocked Id be satisfied
it wasnt properly secured and that the abovementioned exclusion could fairly applied.
Having given very careful consideration to what might have happened, I am satisfied that
Skyfire has shown that it is more likely than not that Mr J didnt lock the vehicle when he
came home from the supermarket. This is because it seems unlikely that the thieves would
have used a signal jammer and then not come back to steal the vehicle for several hours.
And I think it is very unlikely that there was a fault with the vehicle that caused it to unlock
when Mr and Mrs J had been using it for a significant period of time without this having
happened previously.
I appreciate Mr J wasnt asked to provide the video footage from when he left the vehicle on
his return from the supermarket. And that by the time he realised this could help prove helocked or attempted to lock the vehicle it had been deleted. But this doesnt alter my view
that it is more likely than not that the reason it was unlocked when the thief approached it
was that Mr J left it unlocked.
This means I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable for me to interfere with Skyfires
decision to decline the claim.
I do agree with our investigator that Skyfire took too long to communicate the decision on the
claim. And it also took too long to provide a refund of premium. But this caused Mr and Mrs J
distress and inconvenience, not E. And  as Ive already explained  because the policy
should have been in the name of E and not in Mrs Js name, I cant award compensation to
Mr and Mrs J.
I gave both parties until 22 October 2023 to provide further comments or evidence. Neither 
party has responded.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to alter the conclusion I reached in it on the fair and 
reasonable outcome to Es complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I do not uphold 
Es complaint about Skyfire Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman