DRN-3327972
The complaint
Mr F complains about the fees charged by Brewin Dolphin Limited and the poor service he 
received.
What happened
Mr F had a discretionary managed ISA with a business which was taken over by 
Brewin Dolphin in or around 2017. He was charged fees of around £15 each quarter by the 
previous business and this initially continued with Brewin Dolphin.
On 31 August 2018 Brewin Dolphin wrote to Mr F to tell him about a change and giving him 
with six options. The letter said that, if Mr F did not give instructions within 30 days, his 
account would be transferred to its execution only service with a fee of £250 plus VAT each 
quarter.
Mr F didnt reply to the letter. He complains that he didnt receive confirmation of the change. 
He says he only realised the service had changed and his fees had increased when he 
received a letter in May 2019 telling him Brewin Dolphin had had to sell some shares to pay 
for the quarterly fee.
Mr F says he chose to move to Brewin Dolphins portfolio service, but that the transfer didnt 
take place until October 2019 because of reporting discrepancies. He says he was charged 
£1,200 in fees from October 2018 to September 2019 on his portfolio which is only worth 
around £6,000. He also complains that Brewin Dolphin charged a £280 transfer fee, which it 
had agreed to waive.
Brewin Dolphin said the £280 transfer fee was charged in error and offered to refund it. It 
said the increase in fees was notified to Mr F in advance and was in line with his agreement. 
It apologised for not confirming the change in fees to him after its August 2018 letter and it 
offered to pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought Brewin Dolphins offer was fair.
Mr F didnt agree and said, in summary, that: 
A 2,000% increase in fees should not have been the default option as it was unfair.
Brewin Dolphin didnt tell him the charges had changed and it is this that is largely 
responsible for him incurring the excessive fees.
He couldnt make a decision to change services when there were discrepancies with his 
statements. He says the reports hed received were misleading and Brewin Dolphin 
failed to clarify things for him.
The delay in transferring him to the portfolio service was caused by Brewin Dolphin  for 
example, it had to ask him to provide a bank statement, but it didnt ask for this with the 
original forms.
His discretionary account was closed on 5 August, but he was charged for July to 
September. 
The transfer to the portfolio service was always going to be free of charge and he was 
charged in error. This is unrelated to his complaint about the quarterly fees and shouldnt 
be seen as compensation for his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mr F, and in my 
own words. There is a considerable amount of information here from both parties and Im not 
going to respond to every single point theyve raised. No discourtesy is intended by this. 
Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied 
I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
I can see from what Brewin Dolphin has told us that, when it took over responsibility for 
Mr Fs discretionary ISA, it recommended Mr F might want to consider a different option 
going forward because of the small portfolio size. It said it would be difficult to manage on a 
discretionary basis when the value was relatively small and that it may not be cost effective. 
However, Brewin Dolphins minimum quarterly fee was waived during this period, so Mr F 
continued to be charged around £15 each quarter and he didnt give instructions to change 
to a different service.
On 31 August 2018, Brewin Dolphin wrote to Mr F to give him notice of a change to its 
service. It said that its minimum fee charge would become effective from 1 October 2018. It 
again explained that a discretionary managed service was probably not the best option for 
Mr F because of the small size of his portfolio and it provided him with a choice of six 
options. It explained that Mr Fs investments would be moved to its execution only service if 
it didnt receive his instructions within 30 days. It set out its fees for this service.
Mr F did not reply to this letter. He told us he missed the letter in a pile of post and wasnt 
given long enough to consider his options. He thought Brewin Dolphins default option would 
be in his best interests. He didnt receive any confirmation from Brewin Dolphin after the 
30 days and he says he only realised hed been moved to the execution only service and 
was being charged £300 a quarter when he received a letter in May 2019.
Im satisfied that Brewin Dolphin treated Mr F fairly and reasonably in giving him notice of the 
change to its service. It had already told him, in 2017, that the discretionary service might not 
be the best option for him. So I think he had been put on notice that something would have 
to change. I think the 31 August 2018 letter was clear about the various options available to 
Mr F. And I think it was clear that his account would transfer to an execution only account if 
he didnt give instructions within 30 days. I dont think the timescale was unreasonable for 
Mr F to get in contact with Brewin Dolphin. I can see how the letter may have got lost in a 
pile of post and not given the consideration it needed, particularly because the value of 
Mr Fs portfolio wasnt very large and was probably not at the top of his priority list. But 
I have to be fair to both parties, and Im satisfied that Brewin Dolphin didnt do anything 
wrong in transferring Mr Fs investments to its execution only service when it didnt hear from 
him. I appreciate the consequence of this transfer was a large increase in fees. But this was 
clear from the letter. And Brewin Dolphin couldnt have defaulted to one of its other options because these all required specific instructions from Mr F before they could be put into 
effect.
The letter said, We will write to confirm this change of service if we do not hear from you. 
Brewin Dolphin apologised that it failed to do this, and it has offered to pay Mr F £150 for the 
distress and inconvenience its mistake has caused. Ive considered this very carefully 
because Mr F says the lack of a confirmation letter from Brewin Dolphin is in large part 
responsible for him incurring the higher fees. But any further letter would most likely have 
only confirmed that Mr Fs investments had been transferred to its execution only service. 
Information about the service and the fees chargeable had already been sent to Mr F with 
the 31 August letter. So, whilst a mistake was made, I cant conclude with any certainty that 
a second letter would have prompted Mr F to take any action. For that reason, Im satisfied 
that £150 compensation is fair and reasonable.
Mr F contacted Brewin Dolphin in or around May 2019 when he realised he was being 
charged £300 fees each quarter. He gave instructions to transfer to the portfolio service in 
July 2019. And the transfer was finalised in October 2019. There are several reasons why it 
took so long for the transfer to complete. But the last fee charged for the execution only 
service was in July 2019 for the second quarter (April to June 2019 inclusive). I dont find 
Mr F was charged fees for his execution only account from and including July 2019 when he 
gave instructions for it to be transferred. So I dont find the delay led to a financial loss for 
which he should be compensated.
Mr F says he couldnt give instructions to transfer to the portfolio service before July 2019 
because of the discrepancies in the reports hed received. But I dont find the questions he 
raised would have reasonably stopped him from being able to decide whether to keep his 
investments with Brewin Dolphin and what service he wanted.
I do think the reports caused Mr F some confusion and I can see he continued to raise 
questions about the figures after his investments had been transferred. But Brewin Dolphins 
reports were correct; the discrepancies were due to the way it accounts for fees. My role is 
to resolve individual disputes between businesses and consumers. I dont have the power to 
tell a business how it should develop its systems and procedures. Im satisfied that 
Brewin Dolphin told Mr F that the way it accounted for his fees was the reason for the 
difference in the figures in the reports. And that, when he questioned the figures, he was told 
the value of his portfolio to try to give him some reassurance. In the circumstances, I dont 
require Brewin Dolphin to provide any compensation to Mr F for the questions he raised 
about his reports.
Brewin Dolphin told Mr F on more than one occasion that it would waive its usual transfer fee 
for transferring to its portfolio service. It wrongly charged him £280. Its offered to refund this, 
which I agree is fair. Brewin Dolphin should also pay interest on this amount at the simple 
rate of 8% per year from the date the fee was charged to the date it is refunded. Im aware 
Brewin Dolphin doesnt agree that it should pay interest. It says the fee hasnt been refunded 
because Mr F didnt accept its offer. But it agrees the fee was charged in error and, as soon 
as this was brought to its attention, it should have arranged the refund. As Mr F has been 
without that money, its fair that he receives interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that Brewin Dolphin Limited should:
1. Refund its transfer fee of £280, plus interest at the simple rate of 8% per year from the 
date the fee was charged to the date it is refunded *.2. Pay Mr F £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Brewin Dolphin Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
Brewin Dolphin Limited must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman