DRN-2856438
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited acted 
unreasonably in relation to several card payment disputes and in closing Ds account with 
Worldpay.
D is represented in bringing this complaint by its owner, Mr G. 
What happened
D is a merchant. Between May and August 2020, five chargebacks were raised against D 
totalling £11,832.50. Of the five chargebacks:
two were defended by Worldpay on behalf of D; however, the defence was rejected 
by the customers card-issuing bank.
Worldpay received no defence from D for one of the claims
Worldpay received Ds defence for the other two chargebacks out of time. Worldpay 
made a good faith attempt to defend them late but there was no response to either 
case by the issuing banks.
Following the chargeback requests, Worldpay carried out a credit review on Ds account in 
August 2020, as a result of which they made a commercial decision to close Ds account in 
October 2020. Not all of the debt for the chargebacks had been reclaimed by Worldpay from 
D at that stage, in part because D had reclaimed some of the money Worldpay had taken 
from its account through its bank using the direct debit indemnity scheme.
Worldpay sent a formal demand for £11,888.08 to D in January 2021, which included the five 
chargeback transactions and two unpaid invoices.
Mr G made several complaints to Worldpay about the chargebacks, including how D was 
notified of them, and about the closure of its account. Worldpay didnt uphold the complaints 
so Mr G brought Ds complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into matters and said he didnt think Worldpay had acted 
unreasonably in accepting the chargebacks or in closing Ds account. Mr G was unhappy 
with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to look at Ds complaint, so it has been 
passed to me to decide. 
Mr G asked me to consider several points which Ive summarised below:
Worldpay were negligent and should take responsibility for the delays in relation to 
the chargeback notification letters 
Ds defence against the chargebacks was that the contracted service couldnt be 
provided due to a specific government prohibition on all travel at the time, which is a 
valid reason for a chargeback defence
As D has no commercial contact with the issuing banks, it cannot make a claim 
against them  therefore, Worldpay should be claiming against the issuing banks as 
they have done something wrong.
Mr G has told us that he no longer wishes for Ds account with Worldpay to be reopened and 
that we can dispense with the matter of the account closure.
Mr G would like Worldpay to stop asking for the money and pay £5,000 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator and Ive explained my 
reasons below. 
Ill begin by explaining that I cant intervene in the outcome of Ds dispute with the 
cardholder. This decision was made at arbitration by the card scheme and I have no powers 
to look at it. So, Im not going to make any findings on whether the chargebacks should have 
been raised or whether Ds defence should have been successful. What I can do is look at 
the actions of Worldpay and whether they acted fairly once the chargebacks were raised.
Chargebacks
When a chargeback is raised, we would expect the merchant acquirer (Worldpay) to act in 
line with their terms and conditions to ensure the chargeback is handled correctly. I have 
therefore looked at what Worldpays chargeback policy says to confirm if this was followed. 
The terms and conditions of Ds agreement with Worldpay state that it is the responsibility of 
the merchant to provide compelling evidence to Worldpay for the chargeback to be 
defended. It also states that Worldpay arent obliged to investigate the validity of any 
chargeback. However, in my view it would be reasonable for Worldpay to do so if there was 
a realistic chance of a successful outcome.
The basis of Ds defence was that their customers should have claimed on their travel 
insurance, which they had been instructed to take out as part of their booking. And 
furthermore, these customers had been offered a credit to transfer their booking to an 
alternative date in the future. 
Worldpay have explained that they wouldnt have been able to challenge the chargeback 
successfully on Ds behalf in any event because of concerns surrounding the transactions, 
which included:
the cardholder would remain entitled to raise a chargeback regardless of whether or 
not they had travel insurance
no services were provided, and no refund was offered
the cardholder is not obligated to accept a voucher or replacement package for some 
point in the future
Given these concerns, combined with the fact that Worldpays defence of the first two 
chargebacks against D were unsuccessful, it appears doubtful that there would have been a 
successful challenge to the remaining three chargebacks. So, I dont find that Worldpay treated D unfairly in these circumstances as it seems unlikely the challenges would have 
been successful and Worldpay were not obliged to defend them in any case.
So, although I can see that there were some issues with Worldpay receiving and acting on 
Ds defence for the other three chargebacks, and while I think Worldpay could have acted in 
a timelier matter, ultimately, I dont think it would have made any difference to the outcome. 
Mr G has also said that Worldpay should be claiming against the issuing banks and not 
against D. He explained that the events were not cancelled by D and the chargebacks were 
for travel cancellations caused by government action so they should never have been raised 
in the first place. 
As Ive already explained, I dont have the power to intervene in the outcome of Ds dispute 
with the cardholder so this is not something I can ask them to do. And having reviewed the 
terms of the agreement between D and Worldpay, I note that section 6.8 clarifies that 
Worldpay supply technical services only and cannot be held liable for the payment of any 
sums in respect of a chargeback.
Direct Debit Indemnity
Mr Gs bank approached Worldpay and arranged for the direct debits they took to be 
refunded using the Direct Debit Indemnity scheme. Mr Gs bank is not party to this complaint 
so I cant confirm the exact reason for the direct debits being refunded. However, taking into 
account the information I have available to me and the rules of the scheme, I find it is most 
likely that the direct debits were returned as they were taken without authorisation due to the 
required advance notice not being given.  
However, this doesnt mean that Worldpay werent later entitled to seek repayment of this 
debt from D. According to the terms of their agreement, Worldpay were entitled to recover 
chargeback costs from the merchant in respect of all chargebacks that occurred in relation to 
transactions effected during the term of the agreement.
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Worldpay to try to recover its costs from D through 
the formal demand they sent D in January 2021.
Conclusion
I can understand the frustration my decision will cause Mr G, particularly as he has no 
contract with the issuing banks and so cant claim against them. However, as Ive explained, 
I can only look at the actions of Worldpay and although there were issues with the defence 
of some of the chargebacks, I think its unlikely that Ds defence wouldve ultimately made 
any difference to the outcome.
I know Mr G will be disappointed by my decision, but I wont be asking Worldpay to take any 
action in respect of this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G, on behalf of 
D, to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Tara RichardsonOmbudsman