DRN-3465090
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC have refused his request to withdraw funds from two 
juniors ISA accounts hed previously opened for his children.   
What happened
On 31 July 2020, Mr M opened two Junior Cash ISAs (JISAs) with Lloyds  one for each of 
his children. The account opening meeting was conducted over the telephone. Funds were 
deposited into the accounts, shortly after opening. Subsequent regular monthly deposits 
were then also made into each account.
In or around June 2021, Mr M attempted to withdraw funds from the JISAs. But he was told 
he couldnt do that. So, he complained to Lloyds. 
Having considered Mr Ms complaint, Lloyds didnt agree theyd done anything wrong. They 
said Mr M had been provided with full details of the account terms and conditions during the 
account opening meeting. They said JISAs are governed by HMRC who make the rules 
which they have to abide to. Lloyds confirmed that a JISA wasnt accessible until the child 
reaches the age of 18, has a terminal illness or upon passing of the child.
Mr M didnt agree with Lloyds findings. He said he hadnt been told funds couldnt be 
withdrawn until his children reach the age of 18. He asked Lloyds whether they had a 
recording of the telephone appointment.
Lloyds investigated Mr Ms complaint further. They retrieved and listened to a recording of 
the telephone meeting. A further written response to Mr Ms complaint was issued by Lloyds 
on 29 July 2021. They said the terms and conditions of the JISAs were given to Mr M 
including information that withdrawals couldnt be made. They said this was confirmed three 
times to Mr M and he confirmed he understood.  
But Lloyds did confirm that theyd subsequently and mistakenly told Mr M the accounts could 
be closed before his children reached the age of 18. They apologised for giving contradictory 
information and paid £200 to reflect this.
Mr M wasnt happy with Lloyds response. He insisted theyd told him he could withdraw 
funds. He decided to refer his complaint to this service.
Having considered all the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint, our investigator agreed Lloyds 
had given contradictory information. But our investigator also thought the terms and 
conditions provided for the JISAs were clear. He thought the compensation offered was fair 
and reasonable and didnt propose that Lloyds do any more.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators findings. So, his complaint has been passed to me 
to consider further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Junior Individual Savings Accounts (JISAs) are long term, tax free savings accounts for 
children. They were first introduced in November 2011. The rules relating to these accounts 
are set by HMRC (Her Majestys Revenue and Customer), a department of the UK 
Government. All account providers must comply with those rules and provide details of them 
to any account holder. Full details are available on the GOV.UK website.
They key rule relevant in the case of Mr Ms complaint is that Money in a Junior ISA belongs 
to your child and cannot be taken out until theyre 18 There are exceptions, but they dont 
apply in Mr Ms case.
The terms and conditions relating to Lloyds JISA accounts are available on Lloyds website. 
In particular, they say, Can I withdraw money?...No. You cant withdraw money from the 
account until the child turns 18. It can only be closed in special circumstances A further 
link is provided to their full terms and conditions.
The account opening telephone meeting between Lloyds and Mr M was recorded. Ive 
listened to this recording to establish exactly what was said. Lloyds offered Mr M two types 
of childrens saving accounts. When explaining the JISA, they clearly stated, You cannot 
take any money out until the childs 18th birthday. Of the options presented, Mr M confirmed 
he wanted to open JISAs. Lloyds again said, you cannot basically take any money out 
until theyre 18. Mr M responded saying, Thats perfect, Ill take it. He later confirms, I want 
an account where I can put money in every month, Where I cant touch it and the kids cant 
touch it.
Based upon Mr Ms stated requirements, the JISA account offered by Lloyds appeared 
appropriate and Im satisfied Lloyds made it clear that money couldnt be withdrawn before 
Mr Ms children were 18.
However, later Mr M asks, What happens if you want to close the account? Can that be 
done before their 18th birthday?. At this point, the Lloyds agent responds by saying, It can 
be closed, yes. So, I can see why this could cause confusion.
During the telephone meeting, Lloyds confirmed that confirmation of the new JISA accounts 
would be sent out to Mr M in the post. Lloyds have also confirmed that Mr M wouldve been 
sent all the associated terms and conditions.
Ive also considered Lloyds complaint file which summarises Mr Ms comments relating to his 
complaint. When questioned, it appears Mr M didnt remember anything about how he 
originally opened the accounts.
Lloyds agree their agent contradicted themselves within the telephone meeting. Theyve 
apologised to Mr M for any confusion caused and sent a compensation payment of £200 to 
reflect this. Accepting this, I think Lloyds terms and conditions are accessible and very clear. 
They are supported by the information that is readily available on the GOV.UK website. I 
also think Lloyds had clearly stated several times during the meeting that funds couldnt be 
withdrawn before the children reached the age of 18. Given Mr Ms stated requirement of not 
being able to touch the money, I think Lloyds could reasonably conclude that earlier access 
to the funds wasnt a requirement. 
Its very unfortunate that Lloyds made a contradictory comment in the original meeting. But 
ultimately, the rules relating to a JISA are set by HMRC, not Lloyds. The compensation paid 
by Lloyds feels fair in all the circumstances here. But I believe sufficient information had not 
only been provided to Mr M at the time, but was readily available elsewhere for him.
I realise Mr M will be disappointed, but I shant be asking Lloyds to do any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman