DRN-2891663
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) hasnt done more to help him 
after he was the victim of a scam.
Background
Mr S has an account with Bank of Scotland. In early 2020, he was looking for investment 
opportunities when he found the details of an individual on a social media platform. Mr S 
says he contacted this individual who offered to manage an investment in foreign exchange 
on his behalf. 
He was persuaded to invest £600. He made this payment on 12 March 2020. I understand 
he was told to expect a return of between £4,500 and £8,500 the same day. But the 
scammer emailed him to say:
depending on what you earn you may have to cover a settlement fee on your stock 
which cannot be taken from your earnings and must be paid independent to the FX 
authorities in order to have you stock released  failure to settle in the allocation 
time can lead to us losing the stock and the investment.
At the end of the day, Mr S was told his investment had performed exceptionally well and 
was now worth £12,400. He was told he couldnt access these funds without paying a fee of 
£3,000. He asked Bank of Scotland to make that payment the same day. Mr S went on to 
make further payments to the scammer from other bank accounts, but these were the only 
two payments made from his account with Bank of Scotland. 
Mr S eventually realised that hed been scammed when contact with this individual stopped 
completely. He notified Bank of Scotland about what had happened on 11 April 2020, but it 
was too late for it to recover his payments from the fraudsters bank account. It also declined 
to reimburse him for the money he lost to the scam. It said it had considered the complaint 
under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. It said that the code required 
Mr S to have taken greater care to ensure that the person he was paying was genuine. 
Mr S wasnt happy with this response from Bank of Scotland and so he referred his 
complaint to this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The 
Investigator said that the CRM Code required Bank of Scotland to reimburse Mr S, unless it 
could demonstrate that one of the exceptions applied. In this instance, the Investigator 
concluded that Mr S hadnt been careful enough in that he didnt have a reasonable basis for 
believing that the investment was a legitimate one and so Bank of Scotland didnt have to 
reimburse him.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. In particular, he said that Bank of Scotland 
shouldve warned him about the risk of a scam. Because Mr S disagreed with the 
investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to consider and issue a final 
decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Theres no dispute 
here that Mr S authorised these payments. 
However, Bank of Scotland has signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM code). Under that code, the starting 
principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an APP scam, like 
Mr S. There are a limited set of circumstances set out in the code in which a firm can choose 
not to reimburse its customer. One such circumstance is where it can be demonstrated that 
the customer made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
- The payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
- The payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
- The person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate. 
Bank of Scotland said it wont a pay a refund to Mr S because it doesnt think he had a 
reasonable basis for belief. Ive considered this point carefully and I agree with that 
conclusion. Ive come to that conclusion because:
Mr S was offered an unrealistically generous return. By investing £600, he was told 
he could expect a return of between £4,000 and £9,000 within a matter of hours  a 
return of at least 750% on his initial investment. This apparently wouldnt require him 
to risk any of the £600 payment and the person providing this service wasnt charging 
him a fee for his advice. I accept what Mr S has said about being inexperienced in 
the field of investments, but I think he should have recognised that the promised 
returns were far-fetched and shouldve been even more doubtful when the actual 
return earned by his investment was over 2000%.
He was asked to make payments to the personal bank accounts of named 
individuals, rather than the company account of an investment firm. He was told that 
these payments were being made to the scammers accountants, but I think it would 
be widely recognised that this would be an extremely unorthodox way of collecting 
investments for a legitimate firm.
From what hes told us, Mr S didnt carry out any checks to make sure he was 
dealing with a legitimate individual. Hes said he asked them whether they were 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority but didnt carry out any checks of his 
own which he ought to have done given the circumstances of this case.
The confirmation email he received form the person in charge of his investment was 
sent from a personal email account and all discussion of the performance of the 
investment and the charges that Mr S needed to pay took place over WhatsApp. I think in the circumstances, it shouldve seemed strange that a legitimate investment 
manager would communicate with his clients in this way. 
I dont doubt that Mr S has been the victim of a cruel scam here and he has my sympathy. 
But Im persuaded that the weight of the evidence supports the conclusion that he made this 
payment without a reasonable basis for belief and so failed to meet the requisite level of care 
required under the CRM Code. It follows that it was fair and reasonable for Bank of Scotland 
to decline to reimburse him for his losses.
Mr S told us that hes certain that no warning was displayed when he made either of these 
payments. By contrast, Bank of Scotland says that a general warning wouldve been 
provided at the time. I cant know for certain what Mr S wouldve seen at the time he gave 
the payment instruction, nor can I be sure that he wouldve acted differently if hed seen the 
warning that Bank of Scotland says would have been displayed. 
On balance, I think its likely that a warning wouldve been displayed when Mr S was making 
the payment. From the example Bank of Scotland has sent to us, it looks like it wouldve 
been fairly general, rather than specific to the circumstances of these payments. The CRM 
Code doesnt say that a warning must be displayed every time a customer gives a payment 
instruction. Bank of Scotland was only required to do so if it identified an APP risk. 
We know now with the benefit of hindsight that Mr S was being manipulated by a scammer, 
but I dont think that risk wouldve been apparent to Bank of Scotland at the time the 
payment was made. I dont think these two payments were so large that it shouldve been 
concerned that there might be a significant risk. Ive also looked at statement information 
regarding how Mr S used his account in the months running up to the scam and neither of 
these two payments wouldve appeared out of character or unusual. In the circumstances, I 
think Bank of Scotland did enough here by providing a general warning.
Finally, Ive considered whether Bank of Scotland did everything it could to recover the funds 
once it was aware that Mr S had been the victim of a scam. Unfortunately, Mr S couldnt 
notify Bank of Scotland about the scam until around one month after the payment had been 
made. I can see that it contacted the receiving bank but was told that none of the funds 
remained in the account. Overall, Im satisfied it took reasonable steps to recover the funds.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman