DRN-3819869
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the way AWP P&C SA handled his travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr K has travel insurance through his bank. This is insured with AWP. In April 2022, Mr K 
was travelling abroad when he incurred additional expenses following a train strike. He 
subsequently made a claim to AWP. However, the food and drink costs he incurred were not 
reimbursed.
 
Unhappy with this outcome Mr K made a complaint to AWP as he said he called to ask 
about what he could claim for at the time and was advised that food and drink costs would 
be covered but he needed to keep receipts. He says this meant he spent more as the places 
that provided receipts were more expensive. AWP didnt uphold his complaint. It said Mr K 
had made two calls on 19 April 2022 and that in the second call the agent explained clearly 
that there wasnt cover for food and drink costs. AWP also said that neither agent confirmed 
cover for any costs in the calls but said he should keep receipts and send them in.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt 
think AWP needed to do anything more. She said the travel disruption section, under which 
Mr K was claiming, didnt provide cover for food and drink expenses. And even though she 
wasnt able to obtain the specific call recordings from AWP, she found it more likely than not 
that AWP didnt tell him that food and drink expenses would be covered.
Mr K disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Mr K has told us that he incurred additional expenses including food and drink costs, as a 
result of a train strike when he was travelling abroad. The policy wording provides cover for 
disruption to different types of travel under Section 3 Travel Disruption. There are numerous 
benefits available under this section, from a set payment based on the number of hours the 
policyholder is delayed to the reimbursement of additional travel and accommodation 
expenses to enable the onward travel to the destination. 
Having looked at this section, I cannot see that food and drink expenses are included as 
covered under any of the benefits. As the policy doesnt provide cover for such expenses, I 
dont think that AWP has acted unfairly when declining the claim for these costs.
Advice given in the telephone calls
Im aware that Mr K has also complained that he was told in telephone calls he had with 
AWP that he would be covered for food and drink costs. AWP said in its response to his 
complaint that he was told in the call that such costs wouldnt be covered. Unfortunately, the 
recordings of the calls havent been made available to us. And I cant see any evidence that 
Mr K has provided any call recordings himself. So, I dont know for certain what was said 
during these conversations. I therefore need to base my decision on what I think is most 
likely to have happened. 
Having thought about this very carefully, Im not persuaded that Mr K was told he could claim 
for these costs. Firstly, AWP has listened to the calls and specifically said in its response to 
his complaint that he was told there would be no cover for these costs. But even if I was to 
ignore what has been said in AWPs complaint response, I wouldnt generally expect an 
insurer to give definitive advice about whether a claim will be accepted at the point of an 
initial enquiry. All claims are subject to the detailed terms and conditions set out in the policy 
documentation and an insurer is entitled to ask for reasonable evidence and carry out 
reasonable investigations into a claim before confirming cover. Its not unusual to see, in 
these types of situations, that advice given by a travel insurer in response to an initial query 
such as Mr Ks will be generic. A policyholder will usually be advised to submit a claim form, 
with supporting documentation, for consideration before a claim is accepted. And it seems 
this is likely to have happened in this case as Im aware Mr K has said he was told to keep 
receipts. 
So, taking everything into account, and while I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr K, I 
think its more likely that AWP didnt give Mr K incorrect information. I dont require AWP to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman