DRN-4305011
The complaint
Mr S complains about West Bay Insurance Plc (WBI) and the way they handled a claim 
made against his policy by a third-party insurer (TPI). Mr S is unhappy the claim was 
recorded as a fault claim against him, and he is unhappy with the impact this has had on his 
no claims discount and renewal premium.
What happened
Mr S held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by WBI. The policy was administered by an 
intermediary, who Ill refer to as M. As M were acting as an agent of WBI and so, on WBIs 
behalf, Ive referred to any action taken by M as if it was made by WBI throughout the 
decision.
Unfortunately, in June 2022, Mr S was involved in a road traffic accident on a supermarket 
car park. The driver of the other car reported this accident to their insurer, the TPI, and in 
early June, the TPI passed their allegations to WBI, holding Mr S liable for the accident in 
question.
WBI wrote to Mr S notifying him of the claim made against him. And Mr S responded, 
explaining why he felt the accident was the fault of the third-party driver, and not himself. Mr 
S also provided WBI with a sketch of the accident circumstances, to support his testimony. 
But after considering the evidence available to them, WBI decided to accept full liability and 
settle the claim, as they felt Mr S had admitted he was reversing at the point of impact. And 
they wrote to Mr S on 15 July making him aware of this decision.
Mr S took no further action until February 2023, when he received his renewal 
documentation. He noted his premium had increased, and his no claims discount had been 
affected, due to the claim being settled on a fault basis. Mr S was unhappy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr S wasnt happy with WBIs decision to settle the claim on a fault basis. He thought it was 
clear the third-party was at fault and so, he wanted the claim decision to be overturned and 
his no claim discount reinstated. Mr S was also unhappy WBI hadnt substantiated the third-
party claim, which he felt was exaggerated. And he was unhappy with the service provided 
by WBI after he contacted them in February 2023.
WBI responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They thought their decision to settle 
the claim on a fault basis was fair and in line with the policy terms, based on the evidence 
available to them. And because of this, they explained Mr S no claims discount was 
impacted and so, his premiums likely impacted because of this. While they were satisfied 
they followed the correct process, they accepted they couldve responded to Mr S sooner in 
February 2023, when he made them aware he was unhappy with the claim decision. So, to 
recognise this and any inconvenience this caused, they paid Mr S £150. But they didnt think 
they needed to overturn the claim decision or reinstate his no claims discount. Mr S 
remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought WBI had settled 
the claim fairly, in line with the policy terms. And they explained WBI had full discretion to 
settle the claim as they saw fit, without the acceptance of Mr S being required. And as Mr S 
had a claim recorded against his policy, with his no claims discount being affected, they 
thought it was reasonable to expect his premium to increase at renewal. They also 
recognised WBIs acceptance of their service failures after February 2023 but thought the 
£150 WBI paid was a fair offer to recognise any impact this caused and so, they didnt think 
WBI needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. He maintained his belief that the third-party driver was at fault, rather than 
himself. And he provided several comments explaining why he believed this to be the case. 
Mr S also reiterated his belief that the TPIs claim was exaggerated, considering the accident 
circumstances, and that WBI shouldve done more to defend it. Mr S explained having a 
claim recorded against him impacted his life and his reputation and so, he maintained his 
belief the claim decision should be overturned. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr S. I recognise Mr S feels 
strongly about the accident circumstances, and who he feels was at fault. So, I can 
understand why Mr S would feel unfairly treated when he realised the claim had been settled 
on a fault basis, especially when he realised the impact this had on him financially due to his 
loss of no claims discount and so, an increase in his renewal premium price.
But for me to say WBI should overturn their original claim decision, or do something 
differently, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be 
satisfied they failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy Mr S held when 
settling the claim as they did. Or, if I think they did act within these, Id need to be satisfied 
they acted unfairly when doing so. And in this situation, I dont think they have.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful to set out exactly 
what Ive been able to consider, and how. I want to make it clear that it is not mine or our 
services role to re-underwrite the claim, as we dont have the expertise to do so. So, I wont 
be speculating on how I think the claim shouldve been settled regarding liability. Instead, it 
is my role to consider the actions of WBI and to decide whether they were both fair and 
reasonable. And when considering this, Ive thought about the actions WBI took and thought 
about what I think most other insurers would most likely have done, in the same situation. 
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr S held. And these explain, within the 
general conditions section, that WBI shall be entitled to take over and conduct the defence 
or settlement of any claim or prosecute any claim in the name of any person covered by this 
insurance as well as stating WBI shall have discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or 
in the settlement of any claim.
So, based on these conditions, I think WBI were entitled to settle the claim as they saw fit 
and that they could take this decision without the agreement of Mr S. So, I dont think I can 
say WBI acted outside of these terms when deciding to settle the claim as they did.But even so, I would expect WBI to give Mr S the opportunity to support his position, and 
that any evidence he provided was considered before they decided to settle on a fault basis. 
And I think they did so here.
I can see on 30 June 2022, WBI wrote to Mr S asking that he complete an enclosed form 
which requested a sketch of the accident circumstances, his testimony and any other 
support evidence he wished to be considered.
And Ive seen Mr S received, and replied, to this request, with his statement and sketch 
being signed by himself on 1 July. Ive seen that WBI considered this information, alongside 
Mr S testimony he provided in his email to them on 22 June and from this, took the decision 
to settle the claim on a fault basis, as Mr S had confirmed he was reversing at the time of 
impact.
As Ive already explained, I wont be speculating on the liability of the claim, and how I think 
the claim shouldve been settled. But, having considered the evidence available to WBI at 
the time which included Mr S testimony, his sketch and the TPI allegations, I think WBIs 
reasoning for accepting fault was plausible and crucially, I think its likely another insurer 
wouldve taken the same decision, in the same circumstances, as there was no CCTV 
footage or independent witness evidence to further substantiate Mr S position. So, I dont 
think I can say WBI acted unfairly when settling the claim on a fault basis.
I also must note that, after reaching this decision, WBI sent Mr S a letter confirming their 
decision. And I can see it was sent to the same address, in the same format, as the other 
letters sent before this that Mr S had responded to. So, I think its reasonable for me to 
assume it was received. And even if it wasnt, Im satisfied it was sent and so, any issue with 
delivery would be the responsibility of the postal service, and not WBI.
Had Mr S remained unhappy with the decision and had he more information he wanted to be 
considered, I wouldve expected Mr S to contact WBI again after this letter. But I cant see 
that he did until February 2023, when he received his renewal documents. And by this time 
WBI had settled, and paid, the TPI claim.
The terms and conditions of Mr S policy also explain within the no claim discount section 
that if you make a claim or if a claim is made against you for an event which you may not 
consider to be your fault and we have to make a payment this will affect your no claim 
discount unless we can recover our outlay from the responsible party.
In this situation, at the time of renewal, WBI had made a payment to the TPI on a claim Mr S 
didnt feel was his fault. And, WBI hadnt recovered this outlay from the responsible party as 
it was deemed Mr S was responsible. So, because of this, I think WBI acted fairly, and within 
the terms of the policy, when reducing Mr S no claims discount to take into account the 
claim that had been made and settled.
And as Mr S no claims discount has been impacted, I think its reasonable to assume this 
would then impact his renewal premium, as there would be a reduced discount on his 
premium price, which would also need to factor in an increased risk to a previous claim. So, I 
dont think I can say WBI have acted unfairly regarding the no claims discount, or the 
increase in premium. And because of all the above, I dont think WBI need to do anything 
more regarding the claim decision, or the direct impact this had on Mr S premium price and 
no claims discount.
I note WBI have issued a payment of £150 to Mr S to recognise the delays in them 
responded to his communication in February 2022. And as WBI have accepted there were 
failures here, I dont intend to discuss the merits of this any further. But having considered the £150 they paid, I think this payment is a fair one that falls in line with our services 
approach and what I wouldve directed had it not already been made. I think it reflects the 
clear frustration Mr S wouldve been caused by the delays, and his need to chase WBI for 
information he wanted. But I think it also recognises the fact that the claim decision wouldnt, 
and shouldnt, have been overturned and so ultimately, he remained in the same position 
regarding his renewal premiums. So, I dont think WBI need to do anything more here.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. And I recognise this is unlikely to 
address his concerns about the claim the TPI made, and whether it was exaggerated 
considering the accident circumstances. But its not our services role to consider whether a 
TPIs claim was fraudulent. What I have seen is that the TPI submitted clear documentation 
setting out what their costs were, and why. And as WBI had already accepted liability and 
had discretion to settle the claim as they saw fit,. I dont think I can say they did anything 
wrong when proceeding to issue a payment to the TPI to settle the claim in full.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint about West Bay Insurance 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman