DRN-1563467
 
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mr and Mrs F say Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold them the PPI. 
Whilst the mortgage was in joint names, the PPI provided cover for Mr F alone. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Yorkshire most likely made it clear that Mr and Mrs F didnt have to take out 
the PPI and they chose to take it. I say that because Yorkshire has provided the 
actual documentation from the time of the sale. To get the cover Mr and Mrs F had to 
select it. It seems most likely this was done following a discussion with the 
representative. Mr and Mrs F signed the form agreeing to its contents. And Ive noted 
that the mortgage offer explains that, You are not obliged to take out any insurance 
through Yorkshire Building Society. So it seems most likely that Mr and Mrs F did 
choose the cover and did so knowing they had a choice about it  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this now, many years later
Yorkshire didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs F so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs F got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Yorkshire gave Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been, but based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I dont think better information would have put them off the policy. I say that 
because Mr F was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by 
any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Ive considered that Mr and 
Mrs F told us that whilst Mr Fs sick pay was good initially, it dropped significantly 
after six months. Mr and Mrs F also told us they had some other means they could 
have relied on in that circumstance or if they lost a job, but these would not have 
lasted more than six months. This PPI policy could have paid out for up to 12 months 
if Mr F was too ill to work for a long time and would have done so in addition to any 
sick pay arrangements Mr F may have had. And the policy would have paid out for 
up to 12 months if Mr F lost his job. So, I think the policy would have been useful to 
them if something went wrong. So, considering all of the above, I dont think better 
information about the PPI and its cost would have put Mr and Mrs F off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs F have said - including what they have said about 
the case, but these points dont change my decision. Mr and Mrs Fs representatives have 
pointed to the fact that Mr F was already in receipt of his pension from long service with a previous employer. But I have considered that the new mortgage arrangement was 
described as being for debt consolidation at the time. So it seems that Mr Fs pension alone 
was unlikely to have been able to provide cover for the new monthly mortgage amount, as it 
was significantly in excess of the amount Mr F received from his pension each month. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against Yorkshire Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman