DRN-2533756
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt treat them fairly 
when the term of their interest only mortgage expired. They ask for a new mortgage at a 
good rate or for Halifax to pay the remaining balance.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I took out an interest only mortgage in 2004. The term expired in 2015 with an 
unpaid balance. They say their branch told them in 2018 the term could be extended. The 
end of term team then said this wasnt possible. Mr I says theyre caught between different 
parts of Halifax arguing with each other. He says Halifax stopped them re-mortgaging at a 
fair interest rate. In the meantime, theyre paying interest at the standard variable rate (SVR) 
and theyve been forced to make lump sum repayments.
Halifax said the information Mr and Mrs I were given by the branch was wrong and raised 
their expectations. It offered compensation of £200. 
Our investigator said Halifax hadnt treated Mr and Mrs I unfairly regarding the expiry of their 
mortgage, and the compensation offered for the error by its branch was fair.
Mr and Mrs I didnt agree. Mr I said theyd have re-mortgaged by now if it werent for 
Halifaxs internal dispute. Instead, they had to unexpectedly find money to repay the 
mortgage, which meant he couldnt invest the money in his new business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The term of Mr and Mrs Is interest only mortgage expired in 2015 with an unpaid balance. 
Since then interest has been applied at the SVR, which Mr and Mrs I say is unfair. 
Should Halifax have allowed Mr and Mrs I to take out a new interest rate product?
Mr and Mrs I contacted Halifax in 2016, to ask about a new interest rate product. Halifax said 
it couldnt offer a new product as the term of their mortgage had expired. Mr and Mrs I told 
Halifax they had funds to repay the mortgage but didnt want to as they intended to refinance 
with another lender. 
I think it was fair for Halifax to tell Mr and Mrs I they couldnt take out a new interest rate 
product in these circumstances. Halifax quite reasonably expected Mr and Mrs I to take 
steps to repay their mortgage, or to apply for a term extension or re-mortgage. There was no 
remaining mortgage term to allow for a suitable product to be chosen. I think Halifax was 
entitled to apply its SVR.
Should Halifax have offered a term extension?
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy 
before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. Mr and Mrs I wanted to vary their 
mortgage by extending the term.
There are two exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014. The first exception 
wouldnt have applied here. But the second exception might have allowed Halifax to extend 
Mr and Mrs Is mortgage without an assessment of affordability or repayment strategy 
provided the loan balance hadnt increased since 2014 and the proposed change was in 
their best interests. 
I should say that this doesnt mean Halifax cant consider affordability, and ask for 
information about Mr and Mrs Is circumstances to do so. It can fairly take this into account 
when considering whats in Mr and Mrs Is best interests. I should also say that while the 
exception allows Halifax to agree to vary the mortgage despite concerns about affordability it 
isnt required to do so. It could still fairly decline to extend the term for another reason. 
Ive taken the rules on mortgage regulation into account when considering what happened 
here, which Ive summarised below.
The term of Mr and Mrs Is interest only mortgage expired in early 2015. They owed about 
£130,000.
Mr and Mrs I contacted Halifax about extending the mortgage on a repayment basis in 2015. 
Halifax says they didnt complete the application. 
Mr and Mrs I spoke to Halifax again in 2016, asking about a new interest rate product. 
Halifaxs notes say they told it they had funds to repay the mortgage but didnt want to as 
they intended to refinance with another lender. 
Halifax says it was unable to get in contact with Mr and Mrs I and sent a field agent to the 
property in 2018. Mr and Mrs I contacted Halifax in mid-2018: Halifax says they didnt 
complete a review with the end of term team. 
In mid-2019, Mr and Mrs I asked for a repayment mortgage. Mr I had recently changed 
occupation to self-employed and was unable to provide proof of income which met Halifaxs 
criteria. Mr and Mrs I asked for two years to repay the debt, which Halifax declined. Mr and 
Mrs I made a payment proposal, but said they wanted to take advice from a broker first. 
They told Halifax the broker was also looking into applying to other lenders. Halifax said it 
could offer a repayment mortgage if Mr and Mrs I reduced the balance to about £28,000 and 
provided information about their circumstances. It held action to allow Mr and Mrs I to take 
advice from their broker.
In early 2020 Mr and Mrs I said they were looking into whether they could repay the balance 
from a pension and were taking independent advice. Halifax said it would hold action until 
the end of September 2020. 
Mr and Mrs I have made lump sum repayments since 2015 which reduced the balance owed 
to about £5,000 by late 2020.
I dont think Halifax treated Mr and Mrs I unfairly. I think it made them aware they had to 
complete a review before it could extend the term, and they didnt do this until 2019  four 
years after the term expired. At that point, Mr and Mrs I said they wanted to take 
independent advice about their options, and Halifax gave them further time to do this.Halifax had to assess whether a term extension or change in the repayment method was 
affordable, or if not if it was in Mr and Mrs Is best interests. Its process for this is for 
customers to complete a review with its end of term team. I dont think its reasonable to say 
that Halifax should have extended the mortgage term without Mr and Mrs I completing a 
review with its end of term team. 
Mr I told Halifax in 2016 they were able to repay the mortgage but didnt want to. Hes also 
told us he wanted to use the money for other things, such as to invest in his new business. I 
dont think its reasonable to say that Halifax should have to wait for repayment if Mr and 
Mrs I are able to pay but prefer to use the money for other things.
Halifax is entitled to expect its money to be repaid. Fairness suggests as a starting point that 
Mr and Mrs I repaid the mortgage when the term expired  as they agreed to do when they 
took out the mortgage. Halifax allowed Mr and Mrs I time to look into their options for 
repaying the mortgage, and take independent advice. I think this was fair. 
Does the incorrect information given to Mr I at his branch change matters?
Mr I had a discussion with a mortgage adviser at his branch in 2018 that led him to believe 
hed be able to extend the mortgage on interest only terms. Halifax promptly gave Mr I 
correct information about the process for applying for a term extension. And Mr and Mrs I 
had been given information about this previously 
The adviser Mr I spoke to at his Halifax branch made an error. Halifax offered £200 
compensation for the inconvenience this caused, which I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. I havent seen any evidence theres a dispute between parts of Halifax, or 
that this has somehow prevented Mr and Mrs I from dealing with their mortgage balance. 
I dont think its fair or reasonable to require Halifax to take further action, or pay additional 
compensation, due to the incorrect information given to Mr I in the branch.
What happens now?
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and related Government restrictions, the regulator issued 
guidelines to lenders. Current guidelines say no-one should have their home repossessed 
without their agreement until after 31 January 2021. Halifax should take this, and any further 
guidance into account.
In late 2020 there was an unpaid balance of £5,000  which Mr and Mrs I might by now have 
repaid. If not, I must remind Halifax of its duty to treat Mr and Mrs I fairly. And it should of 
course take guidance issued by the regulator into account. But ultimately if Mr and Mrs I 
arent able to repay the mortgage it will be entitled to take possession as a last resort. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Bank of Scotland plc 
should pay £200 to Mr and Mrs I.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Ruth StevensonOmbudsman