DRN-3798956
The complaint
Ms R complains about the hourly rate DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
(DAS LEI) said it would pay her preferred solicitors when she made a claim on a legal 
expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Ms R holds legal expenses insurance with DAS LEI. She made a claim as she was taking 
action against her former employer for unfair dismissal. Ms R has an ongoing claim with 
DAS LEI in relation to a separate claim against that employer. DAS LEI has accepted that 
claim and has been funding her legal action since 2019, including payments to Ms Rs 
preferred solicitors.
DAS LEI initially said that Ms Rs claim for unfair dismissal should be considered as part of 
the original claim, so one indemnity limit would apply for all the legal expenses. When Ms R 
complained about this, DAS LEI said it should be considered a new claim. It said that it had 
updated its policy wording since the first claim and the policy now said the most it would pay 
Ms Rs preferred solicitors was £100 per hour. 
When DAS LEI declined to increase the amount it would pay Ms Rs preferred solicitors, she 
referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator thought the relevant terms and 
conditions for Ms Rs claim, based on when the event that gave rise to the claim occurred, 
didnt include the £100 per hour limit, and so DAS LEI should pay £250 per hour.
DAS LEI didnt agree, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The precise details of Ms Rs claims against her former employer arent directly relevant to 
my decision, but I do think a brief summary of some of the salient points is helpful to provide 
context here.
Ms R had self-funded her original claim against the employer until 2019. Her claim included 
allegations of victimisation, harassment and discrimination. Shed approached DAS LEI in 
2019 following appeals against various previous judgements of an employment tribunal and 
appeal tribunal. The claim was accepted by DAS LEI and the matter is ongoing. The actions 
which resulted in Ms Rs claim had occurred before, and during, a period of maternity leave. 
Ms R was made redundant in 2020. Her claim is that, over a 2 year period starting in early 
2018, she was subjected to unreasonable behaviour from her employer, who removed her 
responsibilities and changed reporting structures. She said these actions led to her being 
made redundant when the area she worked in was transferred to a new employer, and she 
was informed there was no role for her with either the new or original employer.
DAS LEI had originally said the second claim was a continuation of the first claim, but now 
seems to accept that they should be considered separately. The two claims should have two 
distinct indemnity limits applied. Its noted an employment tribunal considered the unfair 
dismissal claim should be held separately from the first claim. As that point is now settled, I 
wont go into this further. All of my conclusions are based on the premise that there are two, 
distinct claims, albeit both relate to claims of unreasonable and discriminatory behaviour by 
Ms Rs employer.
The question I need to address in this decision, therefore, is on what date did the event that 
gives rise to the second claim occur. This is relevant because the policy terms and 
conditions say covers provided for an event which occurs during the period of cover, with 
the date of occurrence being defined as the date of the event which may lead to a claim. If 
there is more than one event arising at the same time or from the same cause, the date of 
occurrence is the date of the first of these events. (This is the date the event happened, 
which may be before the date you first became aware of it.
This definition has had a consistent meaning over the various terms and conditions which 
are relevant to my decision  in effect the date of occurrence is considered to the first date 
on which a claim could arise  not when the claim is made. Thats important for determining 
which terms and conditions a claim should be considered under. 
In order to establish which terms and conditions should be relied on when assessing this 
claim, I need to make a decision when the event which gives rise to the claim occurred. DAS 
LEI says the event that gives rise to the second claim is when Ms R was dismissed, in March 
2020. 
I dont agree with that assessment. Ms Rs submissions to the tribunal and DAS LEI 
(prepared by her legal representatives) detail many incidents of inappropriate behaviour from 
colleagues, management and her employers HR department, starting in February 2018. 
This was when her workspace was moved to a different floor of the building to the rest of her 
team. I havent seen anything from DAS LEI which disputes the conclusions or reasoning 
outlined in these submissions.
The submissions then go on to detail a pattern of behaviour, victimisation and exclusion by 
Ms Rs employer. I know these are disputed by the employer but for the purposes of 
determining when the relevant date of occurrence was, Ms Rs submissions are relevant and 
certainly indicate that the first date an event which occurred which did lead to this claim 
being made  its her position that this was the first step towards her being made redundant 
by her employer.
I conclude the date of occurrence for this claim to be in February 2018.
Putting things right
Having established that the date of occurrence for this claim should be February 2018, it 
follows that the relevant terms and conditions which apply to Ms Rs claim are those which 
were in effect at that time.
DAS LEI hasnt to date pointed to any exclusions or conditions of the policy which mean that 
Ms Rs claim isnt covered. My assessment below is therefore based on an assumption that 
the claim, as currently presented, is considered to be covered by the policy.
Its accepted that DAS LEI didnt amend the policy terms and conditions to limit the amount it 
would pay non-panel solicitors to £100 per hour until 2019. The policy terms and conditions 
dont place any obligation on Ms R to use panel solicitors.Ms Rs preferred solicitors are proposing to charge £250 (plus VAT) per hour. Given the 
complexities of Ms Rs claim, that figure seems to be reasonable and in line with accepted 
rates for this type of work, and I note that DAS LEI hasnt suggested the amount being 
charged is excessive  their position has simply been that the policy only covers for a rate of 
£100 per hour.
So to put things right here, DAS LEI needs to consider the claim in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the policy which were in effect in February 2018. It should pay Ms 
Rs preferred solicitors a rate of £250 (plus VAT) per hour. 
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint. In order to put things right DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited must assess Ms Rs claim in accordance with the 
policy terms and conditions which were in effect in February 2018. It should pay a rate of 
£250 (plus VAT) per hour to Ms Rs preferred solicitors.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman