DRN-3698916
The complaint
Mr G and Ms W complain about the service provided by The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc 
(TMW) when redeeming their mortgage. Mr G and Ms W are unhappy they are being 
pursued for arrears that they feel have been incorrectly applied. 
What happened
In mid-2021 Mr G and Ms W say they wanted to repay their mortgage with TMW so they 
contacted it to find out when it would be best to redeem the mortgage. TMW told them their 
early repayment charge lasted until 31 October 2021, so the earliest they could redeem the 
mortgage without incurring the charge was 1 November 2021. 
TMW sent Mr G and Ms W two redemption statements dated 1 and 14 October 2021 
respectively. Because the first redemption statement redeemed on 31 October 2021 and 
contained an early repayment charge Mr G and Ms W say they decided to redeem the 
mortgage on 1 November 2021, in line with the information provided in the second 
statement. And because they didnt want to move on to a new rate, they decided to cancel 
their direct debit in late October 2021.
Ms W called to redeem the mortgage on 1 November 2021 and was given a lower figure 
than that on the redemption statement for that date. She paid the amount quoted and Mr G 
and Ms W thought their mortgage had been redeemed. Subsequently TMW contacted Mr G 
and Ms W to advise that their mortgage account was in arrears and had an outstanding 
balance of £258.36. Mr G and Ms W didnt agree because they say they paid the figure they 
were quoted on the day of redemption  so they complained to TMW.
TMW say it had made an error on the figure quoted to Ms W on the day but say this was 
because their system had assumed the direct debit would still be collected on 1 November 
2021 but as Mr G and Ms W had cancelled it, this left a shortfall. TMW say the advisor 
should have explained this to Ms W during the call and it says that although the collections 
contact with Mr G and Ms W is in line with its procedures, it understood why this would have 
been frustrating for them. Accordingly, TMW offered Mr G and Ms W £125 in recognition of 
the poor level of service it had provided but said the arrears would still need to be paid. 
Mr G and Ms W remained unhappy so referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered their complaint and didnt uphold it. They said while the service provided to Mr G 
and Ms W could have been better the offer to resolve the complaint by TMW was fair and 
they didnt think TMW needed to do anything more to resolve the complaint. 
Mr G and Ms W didnt agree and say the additional payment shouldnt be due because it 
relates to the new mortgage deal which they didnt take. So the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Its clear Mr G and Ms W wanted to redeem their mortgage so correctly contacted TMW to 
confirm the details of what they needed to pay. They say that the additional payment now 
being requested is for the new rate which they didnt agree to take because they redeemed 
their mortgage so they should not have to make this payment. 
Ive looked at the redemption figures provided to them both in writing and over the phone to 
see which was the correct one. Im satisfied that the figure provided in the call on                  
1 November 2021 was incorrect. I say this because Ive compared the redemption figures 
provided to them in writing for 31 October 2021 and 1 November 2021. 
If the early repayment charge is removed from the statement dated 1 October 2021 the 
figure owing on their mortgage would be £65,498.18 as at 31 October 2021. But as they 
couldnt redeem on that day without incurring an early redemption charge, a daily rate of 
interest needed to be added to give the correct figure for 1 November 2021. 
The figure for the daily interest rate is confirmed on the statement dated 14 October 2021 as 
£8.49 (the interest rate changed for this day as they were no longer in their fixed period on   
1 November 2021)  therefore the total owing on their mortgage on 1 November 2021 was 
£65,506.67. 
This total was the same amount as set out in the redemption statement of 14 October 2021 
which had a redemption date of 1 November 2021. The redemptions statements also made 
it clear that they shouldnt cancel their direct debit before the full repayment had been made.
So while I understand Mr G and Ms W acted in good faith on the information provided in the 
call on 1 November 2021, it is clear the advisor gave them the incorrect figure. And it was 
most likely because they had not accounted for Mr G and Ms Ws direct debit being returned, 
which they had cancelled in late October 2021. 
I understand Mr G and Ms Ws concerns about being pursued for a payment they believed 
was erroneously applied but I dont think it was, so I cant say TMW acted unfairly in chasing 
the arrears that were due and I cant see that it followed an incorrect procedure in trying to 
get the arrears cleared. 
I appreciate Mr G and Ms W will be disappointed with my decision but the arrears were owed 
to TMW so it was entitled to contact them to reach a resolution. TMW has acknowledged its 
poor service and offered them £125 in compensation which I think is fair in the 
circumstances and reflective of the impact on them for the error. So it follows I wont be 
asking TMW to do anything further.   
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I direct The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc to pay Mr G and Ms W £125 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused if it hasnt done so already. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman