DRN-3709208
The complaint
Mr S complains that due to failings on Computershare Investor Services Plcs part he was 
unable to sell shares he held when he wanted to sell them.
In order to put matters right Mr S wants Computershare to compensate him for the fall in the 
value of his shares. 
Mr S also wants Computershare to explain why it failed to respond to his emails querying 
why it had said he needed to create an account with Computershare which is different to the 
website you were using.
What happened
On 10 February 2022, Mr S logged onto his Computershare account. Mr S says he tried four 
times to sell shares he held on its platform. He says that on his fourth attempt he received an 
error message instructing him to contact it to discuss how to sell these shares, or to refer to 
its Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) to find out why he was not currently able to trade 
online. 
I understand that Mr S telephoned Computershare and it appears the representative he 
spoke to was unable to confirm why Mr S was unable to trade and asked Mr S to submit 
screenshots of the error messages he had received.
The following day, 11 February 2022, Computershare emailed Mr S. It said: 
With reference to your recent transaction that was unable to proceed due to the verification 
check. The relevant checks have been carried out and verification has passed. Your account 
has now been updated to allow you to trade online.
Mr S complained to Computershare. He said its system had prevented him from selling 
shares when they reached the price he wanted to sell them at. As the share price had fallen 
by the time he received confirmation that he could trade, he said he felt Computershare 
should compensate him for the fall in the value of the shares.
Computershare did not uphold Mr Ss complaint. It explained that a Know Your Customer 
(KYC) referral had been raised on 10 February 2022, as it needed to verify Mr Ss identity 
before he could trade. It said it had been able to verify Mr Ss identity having carried out 
additional checks and it had confirmed this in the email it sent to him on 11 February 2022.
It also said it had listened to the conversation Mr S had with its representative on 10 
February 2022. It said it was satisfied that Mr S had been correctly advised to send 
screenshots of the error message he had received to allow it to investigate the problem he 
had experienced. 
Mr S was not satisfied with Computershares response. In particular he queried why it had 
said he needed to create a trade account on Computershare which is different to the 
website you were using. Not unreasonably, Mr S said he was mystified by this claim. Mr S 
chased up this point several times but did not receive any explanation from Computershare. 
It did, however, expand on why it needed to carry out KYC checks before Mr S could trade. It 
also paid Mr S £25 for its failure to respond to his emails querying why it had said he needed 
to create an account with Computershare which is different to the website you were using.
Mr S was unhappy with Computershares response and referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator said she didnt think Computershare needed to do more than it had already 
done to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
She said she was satisfied that the reason Mr S was unable to sell his shares on 10 
February 2022, was because anti-money laundering checks needed to be carried out to 
verify his identity. She noted that it hadnt been possible for this to be done electronically for 
Mr S. 
She explained that Computershare is required to carry out these checks and its terms and 
conditions set out that trade instructions cannot be completed until a customers identity has 
been verified. In view of this she said she didnt think Computershare had acted incorrectly 
when it had prevented Mr S from placing the trade on 10 February 2022. She noted that the 
following day, 11 February 2022, Computershare contacted Mr S to confirm that it had 
completed its checks and he could now trade online.
She also noted that Computershares terms and conditions set out that it cannot be held 
liable for changes in stock prices before a trade is placed.
In relation to Computershares comment (in its response to Mr Ss complaint) that he needed 
to create an account with Computershare which is different to the website you were using, 
she said that having reviewed the information available she had not seen anything to 
suggest this comment was correct.
She noted that Computershare hadnt responded to Mr Ss queries on this point, but she 
said she felt the £25 it had paid Mr S for this failure was fair.
Mr S did not accept our investigators view. He said he felt the claims Computershare had 
made in its response to his complaint were unsupported and without foundation. In 
particular Mr S queried,
-  how it was possible for him to access the buy and sell function on its website if he was 
not using the correct website.
- Why he had only received an error message after his fourth sell attempt.
- Why, if he was not using the correct account, was he able to access Computershares 
dealing service on 10 February and place sell instructions. 
Mr S reiterated that he had suffered a financial loss of over £150 as he had been unable to 
sell his shares on 10 February 2022. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ss position. It is clear Mr S found it frustrating that he was unable to 
sell his shares on 10 February 2022, and this frustration was compounded when he phoned 
Computershare and it was unable to explain why he couldnt place the trade.However, I must take into account that Computershare promptly resolved the issue and 
emailed Mr S the following day, 11 February 2022, to confirm that it had carried out the anti-
money laundering checks and that Mr S would be able to trade online.
As our investigator explained, anti-money laundering regulations require Computershare to 
ensure that it has verified the identity of a customer before it can accept any dealing 
instructions. This is set out in Computershares terms and conditions:  
3.2 Due to anti-money laundering regulations (which aim to prevent criminal property being 
used or disguised as legitimate wealth) you may have to produce satisfactory evidence of 
your identity. Until you have provided this evidence, we will be unable to accept any 
instructions from you or provide you with any other services. 
3.3 We will execute your trade as soon as possible after we accept your Online Instruction 
and have verified your identity.
It is not clear why it was only on Mr Ss fourth attempt to place the trade on 10 February 
2022, that he received an error message. I appreciate it would have been helpful if an error 
message had appeared after the first trade failed, but I cant reasonably find that this failing 
caused Mr S any significant disadvantage. 
Likewise, although it would have been helpful if the representative Mr S spoke to could have 
identified why Mr S was experiencing problems placing the trade, I dont think this had any 
impact on Mr Ss ability to trade as the anti-money laundering checks would still have 
needed to be carried out before the trade could proceed.
With regard to the claim Computershare made in its final response letter to Mr S on 15 
February 2022, that Mr S needed to create an account with Computershare which is 
different to the website you were using, I am satisfied that this was incorrect. It is not clear to 
me why Computershare didnt respond promptly when Mr S queried this statement and I 
think it was unsatisfactory that, despite Mr S chasing a response several times, 
Computershare didnt provide Mr S with a response on this point. 
But I dont think this failing on Computershares part impacted Mr Ss ability to sell his shares 
as it had confirmed to Mr S, in writing, on 11 February 2022 that it had completed its anti-
money laundering checks and Mr S would be able to use its online dealing service to sell his 
shares. As this is the case, I think the £25 Computershare has paid Mr S for its failure to 
address its incorrect claim, that he needed to use a different website, is adequate in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr S would like Computershare to compensate him for the fall in the value 
of his shares between the time he first tried to place the trade and when he received 
confirmation, the following day that he would be able to trade. As Computershare set out in 
its terms and conditions that it cannot be held responsible for changes in share prices before 
a customers transaction is completed, I cant reasonably require it to compensate Mr S for 
any change in the share price. 
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman