DRN-2338682
The complaint
Mr R complains about how Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE dealt with a 
claim against his motor insurance policy. Reference to Aioi Nissay Dowa includes reference
to its agents.
What happened
In what follows, I summarise events in rather less detail that theyve been presented. Thats
a reflection of the informal service we provide.
On 18 April 2019, the day before a long bank holiday weekend, Mr R had an accident whilst 
driving. The front of his car collided with a bollard when he was reversing out of a parking 
bay.
On 24 April 2019, Mr R phoned Aioi Nissay Dowa and said that his car was with the 
authorised repairer, who was assessing whether the car was repairable or a total loss. 
Sometime after that, the authorised repairer told Mr R that his car was a total loss.
Mr R says that on 27 April 2019, he test-drove and agreed to buy a new car.
On 29 April 2019, Mr R contacted Aioi Nissay Dowa to establish what was happening and it 
told him that the car hadnt yet been written off, it was waiting for confirmation, and that he 
should have been offered a courtesy car when his car was with its authorised repairer. I 
understand that the authorised repairer subsequently continued to give Mr R confusing and 
contradictory information about whether his car was written off or repairable.
On 2 May 2019, Mr R paid a deposit of £250 in relation to his purchase of a new car and 
asked Aioi Nissay Dowa about how he could change his insurance to his new car.
On 9 May 2019, Mr R signed the order form for the purchase of the new car. On
11 May 2019, Aioi Nissay Dowa told him that it wouldnt cover his new car under his existing
policy.
On 15 May 2019, Mr Rs repaired car was returned to him. On 25 June 2019, Mr R 
reported to Aioi Nissay Dowa that, in preparing the repaired car for sale, he noticed that it 
rattles when driven and the air conditioning didnt work. He asked that the car be repaired.
Mr R complains that:
He was told, incorrectly, that his car was a total loss, which meant that he wasnt 
offered a courtesy car initially and he was put to the unnecessary trouble of 
buying a new car.
The quality of the repairs was poor.
He was told, incorrectly, that he could transfer his policy to a new car and only 
his premium would be affected, but this wasnt the case.
Mr R wants Aioi Nissay Dowa to repair the air conditioning so that he can sell the car, a 
contribution towards insuring and financing two cars, compensation for the loss of value 
of the repaired car, compensation for the time he spent buying a new car and for his 
distress and inconvenience.
In response to Mr Rs complaint, Aioi Nissay Dowa said that its authorised repairer told   Mr 
R, incorrectly, that his car was a total loss, which caused him inconvenience and loss. It 
reimbursed £146.62 for car hire and taxi costs for the period when Mr R should have had a 
courtesy car. Aioi Nissay Dowa offered compensation of £450 in relation to delays, the 
inconvenience of finding alternative transport when he should have had a courtesy car, the 
stress of finding out that his car would in fact be repaired and incorrect information about 
the further inspection of the car in relation to the air conditioning problem.
Aioi Nissay Dowa didnt think that Mr R had shown that he bought the new car as a result 
of the incorrect information hed received, so, it didnt offer any compensation for that. And 
it didnt uphold the part of his complaint about being told that he could transfer his policy to 
a new car. Aioi Nissay Dowa said that its engineers report found that the problem with the 
air conditioning was due to wear and tear, so it wouldnt look into that matter any further.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that Aioi Nissay Dowas 
offer of compensation amounting to £450 and reimbursement of £146.62 for car hire and 
taxi costs was fair. The investigator said that Mr R was aware that his car hadnt been 
written off before he competed the purchase of the new car. He said that he thought it was 
reasonable for Aioi Nissay Dowa to rely on the engineers findings in relation to the issue 
about the air conditioning. The investigator didnt think that Aioi Nissay Dowa was at fault in 
relation to the information it gave to Mr R about insuring his new car.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He disputed the chronology of events on which 
the investigator had relied. Mr R said that when he asked Aioi Nissay Dowa whether he 
could transfer his insurance to another car, it should have told him that it wouldnt cover 
a lot of cars. He asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint. There were further 
exchanges between Mr R and the investigator, which I wont set out here.
My provisional decision
On 9 October 2020, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case because whilst 
Id come to the same overall outcome as our investigator, it was for different reasons. So, I 
gave both parties an opportunity to comment before I came to a final decision. In my 
provisional decision I said:
Its clear that Mr R has very strong feelings about this matter. Hes provided detailed 
submissions to support his complaint, which Ive read and considered. However, I trust that 
he will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what I consider the central 
outstanding issues.
Its common ground that Aioi Nissay Dowas authorised repairer told Mr R, incorrectly, that 
his car was a total loss. Theres also been delay and confusion in dealing with the claim.
Mr R wasnt offered a courtesy car initially, when he should have been.
One of the remaining issues for me to decide is whether Aioi Nissay Dowa should 
compensate Mr R for the fact that he bought a replacement car. I dont think it should and 
Ill explain why.Ive requested and listened to recordings of further phone calls between Mr R and
Aioi Nissay Dowa, which reveal a different chronology from that which was indicated by 
the system notes.
During one of Mr Rs calls to Aioi Nissay Dowa on 2 May 2019, Mr R said that hed been 
told that his car will be repaired. Mr R signed the agreement for the purchase of the 
replacement car on 9 May 2019. I appreciate that Mr R paid a deposit before then and that 
he says he agreed to buy the car, but he wasnt obliged to buy the car before 9 May 2019, 
by which time, he knew that his car would be repaired. So, I dont think that                     
Aioi Nissay Dowa needs to compensate Mr R in relation to his purchase of a replacement 
car.
When Mr R raised concerns about the quality of the repairs and damage to the air 
conditioning system, Aioi Nissay Dowa arranged for an engineer to inspect the car, which 
is what wed expect it to do. The engineer concluded that the damage to the air 
conditioning wasnt related to the accident or repair. I dont think that Aioi Nissay Dowa 
was at fault in relying on the engineers report. Theres no evidence to support Mr Rs 
assertion that Aioi Nissay Dowas authorised repairer caused the damage hes concerned 
about. So, I dont think that it needs to take any further steps in relation to the repairs.
On 2 May 2019, Mr R asked Aioi Nissay Dowa about changing his car under the policy and 
it said that he could do that, but it needed the registration of the new car to do the quote.   
Mr R called Aioi Nissay Dowa again when he had the registration of the new car and it said 
that it couldnt offer cover for the car, as Mr R didnt have sufficient no claims discount.
In general terms, Aioi Nissay Dowa is entitled to decide what risks its willing to insure, so 
its entitled to refuse cover. I dont think that Aioi Nissay Dowa should have told Mr R that it 
wouldnt insure his new car any earlier than it did  it told him as soon as it knew the 
registration of the new car. As his earlier enquiry was general in nature, I dont think
Aioi Nissay Dowa was obliged to explain that it doesnt offer cover for all cars.
Considering everything, I think that the compensation Aioi Nissay Dowa has already paid 
in relation to things that went wrong is fair and I dont propose to ask it to pay any more.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr R nor Aioi Nissay Dowa responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither Mr R nor Aioi Nissay Dowa have provided me with anything further on the 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I think that the compensation Aioi Nissay Dowa 
has already paid in relation to the things that went wrong with Mr Rs claim is fair and I dont 
propose to ask it to pay any more.  My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman