DRN-3345239
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under her home emergency policy. 
Her complaint is how Aviva dealt with the breakdown of her boiler and its replacement.
References to Aviva include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
What happened
In February 2021, following snow, Mrs Cs boiler stopped working. Having a home 
emergency policy, she contacted Aviva. An engineer visited the following day and diagnosed 
that a valve needed to be replaced along with other items. As parts had to be ordered, the 
engineer returned a couple of days later to replace the valve. But he thought another new 
valve and a circuit board were needed, which also needed to be ordered. The engineer 
returned a few days later to fit the new valve and circuit board, but when doing so he noticed 
smoke from the boiler and diagnosed an electrical leak he thought had damaged the valve 
and circuit board. Given this, he thought the boiler was now beyond economic repair.
Mrs C then requested a different engineer visit to inspect the boiler. He thought there were 
different issues with the boiler than those diagnosed by the first engineer, but that due to the 
age and condition of the boiler he suggested it might be better to replace it.
Aviva then said to Mrs C that as the boiler was deemed beyond economic repair, under the 
terms of her policy she could claim for the cost of a replacement boiler. But Mrs C would 
have to pay for installation (as the boiler was more than seven years old). Aviva provided a 
quote for installation, but Mrs C was unhappy at the figure (£1,800). She then approached 
an independent plumber, who quoted £1,921 for a new boiler, including installation. Mrs C 
had a new boiler installed by the independent plumber.
Unhappy at the service shed received, the quote from Aviva for installing a new boiler (as 
well as being without heating and hot water until shed had a new boiler installed by the 
independent plumber) Mrs C complained to Aviva. Mrs C was also unhappy at the service 
from the first engineer, believing that the work he carried out had led to the boiler being 
deemed beyond economic repair.
In their final response, Aviva said they didnt think the first engineer misdiagnosed the 
problems or caused the faults that led to the boiler being declared beyond economic repair 
(although they did confirm elements of poor diagnosis). As Mrs C had replaced her boiler 
independently, they offered Mrs C £463 (the cost to them of a new boiler) and £337 in 
compensation for the inconvenience caused to her. Following a further exchange with Mrs C, 
Aviva increased their offer of compensation to £537 (so making a total of £1,000).
Unhappy at what happened and Avivas final response, Mrs C complained to this 
service. The main points of her complaint were that shed been left with no heating or 
hot water for three weeks due to the poor service from Aviva. Also that, while her 
policy covered the cost of a new boiler, shed have to pay for installation and the 
quote shed got from Aviva was so high that it covered the cost of a new boiler and 
installation by her own plumber. She wanted Aviva to reimburse her the cost of the 
new boiler and its installation.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Aviva hadnt acted fairly. He 
thought it more likely than not the work by the first engineer led to the boiler being 
deemed beyond economic repair, based in part on what the second engineer and the 
independent plumber had said. To put things right, the investigator thought Aviva 
should reimburse Mrs C for the cost of her new boiler (£1,921) together with interest 
on the figure. On compensation, the investigator though that the figure offered by 
Aviva was fair, so they should pay this in addition to the cost of the new boiler. 
Aviva disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They didnt think the evidence clearly indicated the first 
engineer had damaged the boiler, nor that the second engineer and independent 
plumbers views were supported by clear evidence. Also, as the boiler was at least 15 
years old, it was nearing the end of its life, so it was unfair they should have to pay for 
its replacement. 
In my findings I thought that as Mrs Cs boiler was more than seven years old, then in 
quoting for installation of a new boiler, Aviva were complying with the terms of the policy. As 
Mrs C decided to source a new boiler from her own plumber, then in offering to pay her the 
equivalent of what it would have cost them to provide a new boiler (but not installation) I also 
thought Aviva complied with the terms of the policy. However, I also concluded there was 
sufficient doubt about the diagnosis of the problems by the first engineer to conclude that his 
work may (at least) have contributed to the subsequent issues with the boiler and being 
deemed beyond economic repair. Given this, in thinking about what would be fair and 
reasonable, I thought Aviva needed to do more. 
I considered Avivas point that the boiler was at least 15 years old and nearing the 
end of its life, so it was unfair they should have to pay for its replacement. I agreed 
with that view in part. While I thought it would be unfair for them to pay the whole cost 
of the new boiler, I thought it reasonable for Aviva to make a further contribution. 
I thought a fair solution would be to impute a cost of installation by deducting Avivas 
cost of a boiler in its offer to Mrs C (£463) from the £1,921 total cost of Mrs Cs boiler 
(£1,458). In the circumstances, I thought it reasonable for this cost to be shared 
equally between Aviva and Mrs C. 
On the third issue, of compensation, taking all the circumstances into account, I 
thought £350 for distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
As I disagreed with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to give both 
parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
My role here is to decide whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mrs C.
Looking at Mrs Cs complaint, I think there are three main elements. Firstly, the service 
provided by Aviva in response to the breakdown of her boiler. Secondly, following her boiler 
being deemed beyond economic repair, the cost of replacement of her boiler. Thirdly, the 
compensation for the inconvenience from being without heating or hot water.On the first issue, Mrs C maintains the work the first engineer carried out led to further 
issues and the boiler being deemed beyond economic repair. She also points to the findings 
of the second engineer and her own plumber in support of her view. Aviva dispute this, 
saying theres no clear evidence thats the case - either in respect of the first engineer 
damaging the boiler, or to support the views of the second engineer and Mrs Cs plumber.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the evidence available (including the 
reports from the engineers and plumbers and the associated case notes). On balance, while 
its not possible to be definitive, I think there is sufficient doubt about the diagnosis of the 
problems by the first engineer to conclude that his work may (at least) have contributed to 
the subsequent issues with the boiler and it being deemed beyond economic repair.
 
Ive reached that conclusion for a number of reasons. First, the multiple visits from the first 
engineer, with different issues identified at each point. While I accept that the need to order 
parts would have meant more than one visit, the fact that further issues were identified on 
the second visit, and then the boiler deemed beyond economic repair, indicates (as Avivas 
final response and complaint notes acknowledge) an element of poor diagnosis of the faults 
and testing of components. Second, the same notes also acknowledge that the second 
engineers view that there were different issues was plausible and was potentially the case. 
Thirdly, Ive also noted the reports from the second engineer and Mrs Cs plumber about the 
condition of the boiler when they inspected it. 
On the second issue, the replacement of her boiler, Mrs C is unhappy that while she was 
offered a new boiler under the terms and conditions of the policy, she was quoted a cost for 
installation (£1,800) that she thought was too high. Particularly as shed been quoted £1,921 
for a new boiler and installation by her plumber. In thinking about this issue, Ive looked at 
what the policy provides for. Theres a reference under a heading Obsolete parts and BER  
after 6 months that states:
Ifthe boiler is deemed beyond economical repair and is 7 years or older we will 
source, replace and install a new boiler but you will be required to pay the installation 
costs. We will provide for you, a quote for this work.
As Mrs Cs boiler was more than seven years old, then in providing a quote for installation of 
a new boiler, Aviva were complying with the terms of the policy. As Mrs C decided to source 
a replacement boiler from her own plumber, then in offering to pay her the equivalent of what 
it would have cost them to provide a new boiler (but not installation) I think Aviva again 
complied with the terms and conditions of the policy.
However, in thinking about what would be fair and reasonable, Ive also considered my 
conclusions on the first issue. As I think theres sufficient doubt about the diagnosis of the 
problems by the first engineer to conclude that his work may (at least) have contributed to 
the subsequent issues with the boiler and being deemed beyond economic repair, then I 
think Aviva need to do more. 
Ive also considered Avivas point that the boiler was at least 15 years old and nearing 
the end of its life, so it was unfair they should have to pay for its replacement. I agree 
with this view, but only in part. I agree its unfair for them to pay the whole cost of the 
new boiler. But given my conclusion that the work of the first engineer may (at least) 
have contributed to the subsequent issues and being deemed beyond economic 
repair, then I think it would be reasonable for Aviva to make a further contribution. Ill 
set out what I think would be a fair way to do this.
While the invoiced cost of Mrs Cs new boiler didnt break down the cost of the boiler 
itself from the cost of its installation, I think a fair solution would be to impute a cost of installation by deducting the cost of a boiler Aviva used in its offer to Mrs C (£463). 
Deducting this from the £1,921 total cost of Mrs Cs boiler gives a figure of £1,458. In 
the circumstances, I think it would be reasonable for this cost to be shared equally 
between Aviva and Mrs C. This would mean Aviva paying Mrs C £463 in respect of 
the cost of the boiler they would have incurred under the terms of the policy, plus a 
further £729 (being half of £1,458) to give a total of £1,192. 
On the third issue, of compensation, Aviva offered Mrs C a revised sum of £537 for 
the inconvenience shed suffered. Ive considered the circumstances of the case and I 
agree that Mrs C would have suffered significant inconvenience, particularly as three 
visits were made by the first engineer in an attempt to fix her boiler, before it was 
deemed beyond economic repair. Together with the further visits by the second 
engineer (as well as Mrs Cs independent plumber) I think its clear that she was 
inconvenienced for longer than she should have been had the issues been fully 
diagnosed (if not fixed) on the first visit, even allowing for the boiler subsequently 
being beyond economic repair. Taking all the circumstances into account, I think £350 
for distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I 
intend to require Aviva Services Limited to pay Mrs C:
£1,192 towards the cost of her new boiler (assuming they havent already paid the 
£463 offered as the cost to them of a new boiler). 
£350 for distress and inconvenience. 
As Mrs C has already paid for the cost of a new boiler, I also intend to require Aviva Services 
Limited to pay interest at 8% simple on the figure of £1,192 from the date Mrs C paid the 
invoice for her new boiler to the date she tells us she accepts my decision (assuming she 
does accept it).
Mrs C responded to say that she had no further points or information to add to her complaint, 
while Aviva responded to say they had nothing additional to add at this time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mrs C and Aviva responded to say, respectively, that she had no further points or 
information to add to her complaint, and they had nothing additional to add at this time, then 
I havent changed my mind on my findings and conclusions. So my final decision remains 
the same, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I require 
Aviva Services Limited to pay Mrs C:
£1,192 towards the cost of her new boiler (assuming they havent already paid the 
£463 offered as the cost to them of a new boiler). 
£350 for distress and inconvenience. As Mrs C has already paid for the cost of a new boiler, I also intend to require Aviva Services 
Limited to pay interest at 8% simple on the figure of £1,192 from the date Mrs C paid the 
invoice for her new boiler to the date she tells us she accepts my decision (assuming she 
does accept it).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman