DRN-3949885
The complaint
Mrs E complains that AWP P&C SA imposed a requirement for a PCR test result which they 
then havent reimbursed her for and that they have provided poor customer service.
 
What happened
In October 2021 Mrs E booked tickets for an event on 10 June 2022 and bought missed 
event insurance from AWP as part of her purchase. 
Unfortunately, on 6 June Mrs Es husband became unwell with COVID-19. Mrs E notified 
AWP straight away and received an automatic e mail reply advising that she would need a 
positive PCR test displaying her name and date of birth which needed to be entered into the 
NHS app. She would need to send a screen shot of the app. 
Mrs E e-mailed asked for clarification as free government PCR testing was no longer 
available, but she didnt receive a response and so she purchased a private PCR test for 
£67 to comply with the conditions.
Mrs E sent further chase e mails to AWP but heard nothing back. 
On 1 July 2022 AWP wrote to Mrs E advising that the claim had been opened and sending 
her a claim form. She returned it on 3 July 2022, including a request for reimbursement of 
the cost of the PCR test.
Mrs Es claim was approved and paid for the value of the tickets, but not for the cost of the 
PCR test, so she complained. 
In their final response AWP said that the claim had been paid but they didnt address the 
issue of the PCR test fee or the communication and so Mrs E brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Es complaint. She thought that AWP hadnt acted 
fairly and in line with the terms of the policy in asking for the PCR test, and so she 
recommended AWP refund the £67 PCR test fee and pay 8% interest, and pay £100 for 
inconvenience. Mrs E accepted this, but AWP didnt respond, and so the case has come to 
me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below. 
The policy provides cover for missed events, and there is no dispute over Mrs Es 
entitlement to make a claim due to COVID -19. 
There are no specific terms in the policy about what evidence is required to support a 
COVID-19 related claim, but there is a general term which requires that:
You contact us as soon as possible with full details of anything which may result in a claim 
and give us all the information and documents we ask for throughout the claims process. 
Please see the Making a claim section for more information and examples of the 
documents we will need.
Under the Making a claim section of the policy it says 
For claims relating to illness or injury a medical certificate will need to be completed by the 
treating doctor. A certified copy of the death certificate is required in the event of death.
So, Mrs E hadnt been advised of the need to provide a PCR test until she made her claim, 
and received the following automated e mail reply:
"If you are self-isolating or displaying Coronavirus symptoms and you cannot attend, or do 
not feel comfortable to attend your booked events any longer, please note that your 
insurance may not be able to cover your losses unless a positive PCR test or a lab based 
result can be provided. This information must display your full name, your date of birth and 
the date  of the COVID test. This must be entered Into the NHS app and a screenshot of this 
will need to be provided.
We will not be able to accept photos of positive lateral flow tests as proof of a COVID19 
positive result. We do require positive PCR or lab certified test results only."
As free government testing linked to the NHS app was no longer available, and government 
guidance had changed, Mrs E tried to obtain clarification from AWP about what to do but she 
didnt receive a response, and so in order to comply with the additional requirements 
outlined in the e mail above, she purchased a private PCR test at a cost of £67.
Although the policy terms dont allow for reimbursement of any fees that a policyholder 
incurs in relation to evidencing a claim, I dont think that AWP have acted fairly in requesting 
that Mrs E provides evidence that was not outlined in the original policy document, and 
which was no longer available for free. Government guidance at the time no longer required 
the general public to undertake a PCR test if they had a positive lateral flow test, and so the 
additional requirements were imposing a cost on Mrs E which significantly reduced the value 
of her claim, and which I dont think is fair and reasonable without warning prior to purchase. 
I consider that its unlikely Mrs E would have taken out the insurance if shed known this 
would be a requirement. In view of that I am satisfied that it would be fair for AWP to 
reimburse the cost of the test fee. 
I think that Mrs E did her best to try and clarify what the requirements were, and whether in 
view of the changed Government guidance, the PCR test was still necessary. However, she 
didnt receive any clarification, and so she was left having to incur the test fee or risk not 
being able to make a valid claim. I can see that this would have been stressful and agree 
with the investigator that AWP should pay some additional compensation for their poor 
customer service in not responding and delaying in acknowledging the claim. 
Putting things right
I think that AWP should:Reimburse Mrs E £67 for the PCR test fee that she incurred
Pay 8% interest on that sum from the date the test fee was paid until the date of 
settlement
Pay Mrs E £100 for the trouble and upset caused by having to chase AWP for a  
response and the delay in dealing with her claim 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct AWP P&C SA to put things right as 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman