DRN-3885236
The complaint
Mr G and Ms J complain that Aviva Insurance Limited declined their claim following a fire in 
one of the outbuildings at their property.
What happened
Mr G and Ms J took out home insurance with Aviva. This was arranged through their 
mortgage adviser. In June 2022 Mr G and Ms Js barn caught fire. Aviva sent its loss 
adjuster to examine the barn. He said that although the house was covered under the policy 
the barn wasnt as it had been in a poor state of repair prior to the fire. It said that this was 
contrary to the policy which required the property to be maintained in good condition. Aviva 
said that had it known the state of disrepair it would still have offered cover but would have 
excluded the outbuildings that were in a poor condition. 
Mr G and Ms J complained to Aviva. Aviva reviewed the claim and changed its decision. It 
sent a letter to Mr G and Ms J on 28 July 2022 which said that the barn was covered as 
regardless of its condition it would still have been damaged by the fire. It also accepted that 
when the policy was taken out no questions were asked about the condition of the 
outbuildings. It said it was working out a cash settlement based on restoring the barn to the 
condition it was in before the fire.
On 9 August 2022 Aviva sent another letter to Mr G and Ms J saying that the original 
decision to decline the claim had been correct. It said that the barn was suffering from lack of 
maintenance as well as general wear and tear that had been ongoing for many years and 
well before the policy was taken out. It said it didnt dispute that there was a fire, but due to 
the lack of maintenance it would not be covered under the policy. 
As part of Mr G and Ms Js complaint, Aviva reviewed its decision to decline the claim but 
didnt change its mind. It offered £1,000 compensation for the upset caused by the change of 
decision. 
In October 2022 Aviva said that it would no longer offer cover and gave notice that the policy 
would be cancelled mid-term.
Mr G and Ms J werent happy that Aviva had declined their claim and brought their complaint 
to this service. Our investigator didnt think Aviva had acted reasonably. He didnt think Mr G 
and Ms J had breached the maintenance condition and that the condition of the barn had no 
bearing on the fire. He said that Aviva had affirmed the policy by dealing with the claim and 
had made no allegation of misrepresentation. 
Mr G and Ms J accepted our investigators decision, but Aviva didnt. It raised the issue of 
misrepresentation and said that it wasnt given full information when Mr G and Ms J 
purchased the policy. Our investigator said that as Aviva didnt ask any questions about the 
condition of the barn, misrepresentation wasnt relevant. Aviva asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G and Ms J have raised other complaints regarding the sale and cancellation of their 
policy, but Im dealing here solely with the complaint against Aviva regarding the claim being 
declined. 
Theres no dispute that there was a fire, which is an insured event under the policy, and that 
the fire caused damage to the barn. Aviva relied on a breach of the policy conditions 
regarding maintenance to decline the claim, and the question for me is whether this was 
reasonable. 
Aviva has also now said that there was a misrepresentation when the policy was purchased 
and that it wasnt provided with full information regarding the condition of the barn. 
The relevant law for misrepresentation is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
Aviva says that Ms G and Ms J failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when they didnt disclose the condition of the barn. For there to be a 
misrepresentation, Mr G and Ms J must have provided incorrect information. Aviva accepts 
that whilst it asked a question about the condition of the main home, which was answered 
accurately, it didnt ask any questions about the condition of the outbuildings. As Aviva didnt 
ask about the barn, I dont think Mr G and Ms J made a misrepresentation and so Ive not 
gone on to consider CIDRA further.
Misrepresentation was also not the reason Aviva gave to Mr G and Ms J for declining the 
claim. The claim was declined on two separate occasions for breach of the maintenance 
condition. Aviva knew the true condition of the barn shortly after the fire but didnt suggest 
that there had been a misrepresentation. By dealing with the claim under the policy, and 
declining it for breach of a policy condition, I think Aviva affirmed the contract. Aviva also told 
Mr G and Ms J in August 2022 that the policy would continue, again affirming the contract, 
before later giving notice of cancellation. 
As Aviva affirmed the policy and cancelled it mid-term rather than avoiding it, the policy was 
in force at the time of the fire, and I think its fair that the claim is considered under the terms 
of the policy. 
Aviva has said it relied on the maintenance condition to decline the claim. Ive looked at the 
policy and there is a general condition that says the policyholder must keep to the terms and 
conditions of the policy. It also says under general condition 2 that All property insured by 
this policy must be maintained in good condition. 
Ive seen photos of the barn and I dont think there is any dispute that it was in a state of 
disrepair. The walls were cracked, it was covered in foliage and there was a tree growing 
through the roof. However, it was in this state when the policy was taken out and Ive not 
seen any evidence that there was a lack of maintenance. In fact, Mr G and Ms J had made 
some small improvements by removing some of the vegetation and were working with an 
architect on future plans for the building. 
I dont therefore think that Aviva has shown that the building wasnt being maintained. In any event, even if Mr G and Ms J had failed to meet this condition, I dont think it had any impact 
on the claim. The likely cause of the fire was an ember from a bonfire. The fire would still 
have happened, and the damage still caused, regardless of the condition of the barn. The 
condition of the barn had no bearing on the claim. I dont therefore think it fair or reasonable 
for Aviva to rely on breach of this condition to decline the claim. 
Aviva has queried how its expected to quantify the fire damage to the barn due to the 
previous disrepair. This is not something for me to decide. Its for Aviva to quantify the claim 
in the same way it would determine the cost of any claim. 
Taking all the above into account, I dont think Aviva has treated Mr G and Ms J fairly or 
reasonably by declining their claim for breach of the maintenance condition. Aviva should re-
consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Aviva has offered Mr G and Ms J £1,000 compensation for poor customer service. I think this 
is fair and in line with our awards for distress and inconvenience. Mr G and Ms J were given 
conflicting information regarding their claim and have also suffered considerable distress due 
to their claim being unfairly declined. Provided the compensation has not already been paid, 
I think it fair for Aviva to pay £1,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
reconsider the claim for fire damage in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy; and
pay Mr G and Ms J £1,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience provided 
this has not already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman