DRN-4400529
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund 
them the money they lost to what they believe was a scam.
Mr and Mrs L bring their complaint with the assistance of professional representation, but for 
readability, in what follows I will refer solely to Mr and Mrs L.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary I understand it to be as follows.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs L invested in an unregulated property scheme (that Ill refer to as W). 
They were persuaded to invest £50,000 into property bonds, with the investment being paid 
through a single bank transfer, from their Halifax account, which they made in a Halifax 
branch on 8 January 2018.
Mr and Mrs L became aware and concerned that they may have been the victims of a scam 
following a police investigation. W has since entered liquidation and Mr and Mrs L have 
highlighted significant concerns that it may have been operating fraudulently.
Mr and Mrs L raised the matter with Halifax and it looked into their complaint. Halifax issued 
its final response on 5 January 2023, not upholding the complaint. In summary, it considered 
this to be a civil dispute between Mr and Mrs L and the company they had invested with. It 
added that, due to the time that has passed, it no longer had a detailed version of events 
from the branch, but it says as the payment was of a high value it would have been checked 
by the branch. Alongside this it said that, even if it had found the payment suspicious and 
warned Mr and Mrs L, it doesnt think it would have deterred them from going ahead, given 
that there was no reason to suspect W was acting fraudulently.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into things but didnt think that their complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, our Investigators view was that he didnt think Halifax should reasonably have 
been expected to prevent Mr and Mrs L from making the payment. He considered that 
Mr and Mrs L would still have wanted to go ahead with the payment at the time, as the 
company they were paying and the documents they received would have appeared to have 
come from a genuine company. Overall, he didnt think Halifax would have suspected there 
was a fraud risk.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, they maintained that had 
Halifax intervened, as they thought it ought to have done, it could have uncovered concerns 
about the transaction. With this, they think on the balance of probabilities they wouldnt have 
proceeded with the payment.
As an agreement hasnt been reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been  
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on  
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt  
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
In their submissions to us, Mr and Mrs L have referred to The Lending Standards Board 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). But that doesnt apply in this case. 
That is because it came into operation in May 2019  after the payment in question.
Im mindful that there is a dispute between the parties in this case as to whether this is a  
scam. Ive thought about this. But, in the circumstances of this case, my findings would not 
differ, even if I considered this was a scam. So Im satisfied that to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome on this case, it isnt  necessary for me to make a finding as to whether I 
think this is a scam. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr and Mrs L, and I can understand entirely why  
they feel so strongly that this money should be returned to them. But having thought very 
carefully about Halifaxs actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the 
payment to leave their account.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to  
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Mr and Mrs L are responsible for 
transactions theyve carried out themselves. Mr and Mrs L dont dispute that at the time, they 
intended to make the payment, albeit with the belief the payment was towards a legitimate 
investment. But that isnt the end of things, Halifax along with other payment services 
providers, should be monitoring accounts and be on the lookout for unusual transactions or 
other signs of fraud.
Due to the time that has passed Halifax has said it doesnt have any detailed information 
regarding the events when the payment was made in branch. But its added that, due to the 
high value of the payment, it would have been checked in branch. Mr and Mrs L say the 
branch didnt question the transaction. In cases when its not clear what happened or where 
the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as is the case here, I base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider is more likely than not to have 
happened in light of the available evidence.
Having thought about this, in the individual circumstances of this case, even if I were to 
accept that Halifaxs intervention didnt go as far as it could have done, and that it ought to 
have questioned Mr and Mrs L more about the payment, before allowing it to be progressed, 
Im not persuaded it would have made a difference.
I say that as had Halifax questioned Mr and Mrs L about the payment, I think that they would 
have told it the truth  that they were making an investment with W, which appeared  through its registration with Companies House  to be a legitimate business. At the time 
Mr and Mrs L made the payment, it was actively trading, and it would have needed a 
considerable amount of investigation to unearth the information about W that later came to 
light.
Mr and Mrs L have provided copies of the investment literature I understand they received at 
the time. This appears professional and not obviously anything other than legitimate. It gave 
an explanation of the risks involved and recommended investors should seek independent 
financial advice prior to making an investment decision. On the face of it, I dont think there 
was enough here for Halifax to have reasonably suspected W was other than it seemed.
Im also not aware of any published regulatory warning about company W at the time the 
payment was made. So it seems at the time of the event there would have been no public 
information that Halifax ought to have been aware of and reacted to. Or indeed that Mr and 
Mrs L would have come across had Halifax suggested they first complete more checks. On 
balance, I dont think that Halifax reasonably ought to have had concerns at the time. And 
Im satisfied that Halifax hasnt missed an opportunity to prevent the payment before it was 
sent.
Unfortunately, given the time that has elapsed since the payment was originally made I dont 
think there was any prospect of Halifax being able to recover any of the money Mr and Mrs L 
had paid. Im satisfied that recovery from the beneficiary bank was not a viable option.
Its very unfortunate Mr and Mrs L have lost this money in this way, and I understand the 
whole experience has been deeply upsetting and I do have a great deal of sympathy for 
them. But in the circumstances, having carefully considered everything Mr and Mrs L and 
Halifax have submitted, I dont find Halifax could have reasonably prevented Mr and Mrs Ls 
loss here. Neither do I find it materially at fault otherwise.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman