DRN-3656874
The complaint
Ms Y is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) wouldnt pay the legal costs she incurred. 
Shes also unhappy with their handling of her claim under her legal expenses insurance 
policy.
What happened
In October 2021 Ms Y had a trader repair her roof. She acquired the trader via another 
website that approved the repairer. A few weeks later, the roof was leaking so she 
complained to the company that approved the trader.
The trader refused to go back and complete remedial work. Ms Y obtained quotes for the 
repair along with evidence the roof wasnt fixed to a good standard. Following this, she put in 
a claim on her legal expenses policy.
UKI accepted the claim and referred it to one of their panel solicitors. The solicitors assessed 
the claim and found it enjoyed good prospects of success, but as the trader was a relatively 
new company and they couldnt establish its financial status, they didnt think Ms Y had 
prospects of recovering the damages she was seeking. They sent a letter of claim and 
informed Ms Y that if the trader didnt respond they wouldnt take any further action.
Ms Y wasnt happy that the solicitors wouldnt be taking further action, so she complained to 
UKI but also discussed her case with another firm of solicitors which Ill refer to as R. R also 
sent a letter to the trader and the website Ms Y used to obtain the traders services.
The website responded to R and agreed, as a gesture of goodwill, to pay Ms Y £200 per 
month until the full amount was repaid.
Ms Y felt that UKI should pay the legal fees she incurred as the panel solicitors hadnt done 
a thorough job. UKI declined to cover the fees she incurred. They said they had been clear 
she didnt have freedom of choice and they were satisfied with the service provided by the 
panel solicitor.
Ms Y referred her concerns to this service. Our investigator didnt think UKI had done 
anything wrong. As Ms Y remained unhappy its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for breach of contract in relation to buying and hiring of goods or 
services and UKI have accepted the claim.
It also explains the process for accepted claims. It says:
If we accept your claim, we will choose a preferred law firm to try and settle the matter 
without having to go to court.
If it is necessary to take your claims to court, or if there is a conflict of interests, you can 
choose a law form to act as the appointed representative.
If you choose an appointed representative who isnt a preferred law firm they must agree 
to act for you in line with our terms of appointment. We will only cover their costs from 
the date they agree to our terms of appointment.
Its clear that Ms Y didnt have the freedom to choose her own solicitors until the time it was 
necessary to go to court and there was nothing to suggest there was a conflict of interest.
So, any costs incurred would only be covered once terms of appointment had been agreed 
with UKI. Ms Y says the panel solicitors had said she could have freedom of choice. 
However, Ive seen a copy of an email from the panel solicitors to Ms Y explaining as 
advised, she would need to discuss freedom of choice of solicitor with UKI.
R wrote to the trader on 7 December 2021 which was shortly after the panel solicitors had 
issued their letter of claim. And whilst Im aware Ms Y said she hadnt formally instructed R, 
they had still acted on her behalf at the same time the panel solicitors were waiting for a 
response from the trader. 
UKI were clear in both their terms and in discussion with Ms Y that she wasnt free to appoint 
her own solicitor. Their panel solicitors work was still ongoing at the time R acted, and they 
werent at the point of court action, so I dont think UKI are responsible for paying the legal 
fees she incurred. 
I appreciate Ms Y was concerned because the panel solicitors had told her they wouldnt 
take further action, other than issuing the letter of claim. This was because having carried 
out checks they were concerned that if Ms Ys claim went to court, they may not be able to 
recover the losses she was claiming.
In relation to reasonable prospects of success the policy terms and conditions says:
For civil cases, we and the appointed representative agree that there is a better than 
50% chance that you will:
Obtain a successful judgement, and
Recover your losses or damages or obtain any other legal remedy
The panel solicitor couldnt establish if there was a better than 50% chance of recovering 
Ms Ys losses as the trader was a newly established business and there was no record of 
financial accounts. There also wasnt any evidence of assets owned to assist with this so 
they declined to take further action than the letter of claim. As there wasnt a better than 
50% chance of recovering the losses. 
UKI havent raised any concern with the panel solicitors findings, but I cant see any 
evidence to support their concern regarding recovery of losses, such as a tracing agents 
report. If the claim hadnt progressed as it did, I may have questioned any reliance on this by 
UKI, particularly because the absence of information available to the panel firm, doesnt in 
itself mean there are less than 51% prospects of recovery.
That having been said, I dont know what may have come of the action the panel firm had 
taken and how the claim wouldve proceeded if Ms Y hadnt instructed R to take things further. Further information may have come to light about the traders financial position, such 
that the panel firm might have advised Ms Y to pursue a claim against him. But as an 
agreement was reached with the website for the losses Ms Y was claiming, through R, there 
wasnt any further action for UKI or the panel firm to take. 
Ms Y has explained her reasons for discussing the case with R. She says she was 
concerned because the panel solicitors didnt contact the website she acquired the traders 
service from. But as Ive said above, I dont know how things might have progressed 
following the panel solicitors letter of claim given her actions. It might for example not been 
necessary for the panel firm to do this at all. And whilst I can see that Rs actions did 
proactively help Ms Y to resolve her dispute, this wasnt a certain outcome and more 
importantly, she was made aware she wouldnt be covered for Rs costs. Because of this I 
dont think its reasonable to require UKI to pay them.
Overall, for the reasons explained, Im satisfied UKI are not responsible for the legal costs 
Ms Y has incurred through Rs actions and have done nothing wrong in declining to pay 
them. The claim was progressed in reasonable time and in line with the terms and conditions 
of the insurance.
Im aware Ms Y remains unhappy with the advice and service the panel solicitor provided, 
and this is something she has referred to the Legal Ombudsman. Thats not something I can 
comment on because it falls outside the matters, Im able to decide.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman