DRN-2667819
The complaint
Mr H complains that a hybrid car he acquired through a Hire Purchase Agreement with BMW 
Financial Service (GB) Limited (BMWFS) doesnt achieve the mileage it should. He would 
like the matter resolved.
What happened
  The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
Mr H has been given various reasons as to why he doesnt achieve a reasonable 
level of mileage on his new hybrid car. These include the impact of cold weather, 
using other electrical items (heated seats and air conditioning) at the same time and 
not using a charging point despite the car being advertised as suitable for mains 
electricity. He has also been told to charge the battery, leave for six hours then 
charge again. 
I dont find any of these suggestions reasonable. I think they would all impact on Mr 
Hs use of the car. And as the car was new when he got it, I think he could 
reasonably expect to get near to the advertised range of 25 miles on a fully charged 
battery for a reasonable time from getting the car not, within a short space of time,  
around 15 miles which is significantly less.
I accept the dealership hasnt found any fault with Mr Hs car. But I havent seen any 
in depth report or evidence of a test drive to see what can be achieved. And the 
dealership seems to accept Mr H doesnt achieve the advertised mileage range.
BMWFS suggested that Mr H had his car inspected by a BMW approved dealership 
to see if there was any technical issue with the battery. We did ask, given Mr Hs 
personal circumstances if BMWFS could arrange this but had no reply. Mr H 
arranged an inspection, but this doesnt seem to have looked at the battery. I am not 
sure why this was, but it clearly wasnt an easy thing for Mr H to arrange in the 
current situation.
I dont think BMWFSs request was unreasonable and Mr H would like the car 
repaired. There must be some reason as to why initially Mr H was able to initially 
achieve a mileage range of around 22 miles when the car was fully charged but was 
then only able to achieve a mileage range of 15 miles. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement BMW Financial Service (GB) Limited should:-
- Arrange an independent inspection of the car specifically to address why Mr H 
doesnt achieve the mileage he initially did. If any issues are found these should be 
addressed at no cost to Mr H.
- Pay Mr H £100 for the distress and inconvenience.
- If the problem cant be solved, then Mr H should be allowed to reject the car and end 
his agreement which should show as settled on his credit file, and in this situation . 
BMWFS should also refund Mr Hs deposit with 8% interest.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman