DRN-2972732
The complaint
Mr F complains that when TSB Bank plc implemented a security measure known as Strong 
Customer Authentication (SCA), he was locked out of his account online and could not pay 
his bills. Hes since moved his current account to a bank he says, have implemented SCA 
adhering to the FCA requirements. Hed like TSB to change their SCA process and pay him 
compensation for all the inconvenience and hassle he suffered.
What happened
In or around August 2020 Mr F was prompted to enter a one-time passcode (OTP) when he 
tried to log in to online banking. He was abroad at the time and found he couldnt receive the 
OTP as he didnt have his UK mobile phone with him. Eventually he had a relative access 
his UK phones and pass on the required OTPs to him, but this didnt completely resolve the 
problem.
Mr F complained to TSB and said card readers would be a better option for generating OTPs 
as they can be used abroad. Mr F said hed transfer his balance elsewhere if TSB continued 
to require OTPs sent to phones.
In their final response, TSB explained that theyd changed their security processes in March 
2020 in line with regulations and that customers would now be asked to enter an OTP 
received to their mobile or UK landline number when logging in. TSB added that customers 
shouldnt need to enter an OTP for 90 days if logging in from a trusted device. They went on 
to explain that theyd had some difficulty sending OTPs to customers abroad, but said they 
were working on rectifying this. TSB paid Mr F £40 for the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced.
Mr F continued to experience a problem whereby the calls his relative in the UK received 
from TSB either produced OTPs which didnt work or there was no OTP spoken. He also 
found he was asked for an OTP every time he tried to log in; in his experience there was no 
90 days period where one wasnt required.
In December 2020 Mr F closed his TSB account.
What Mr F told us
Mr F told us that the relevant regulations are clear that customers without mobile phones or 
mobile reception should not be disadvantaged by the implementation of SCA. He said TSBs 
SCA process is heavily reliant on mobile phones when they could send the OTPs by email or 
provide customers with a card reader to generate OTPs. He explained that his problems 
began when he was trying to log in to online banking from abroad, but that he also 
experienced the problem when he was in the UK in areas of poor mobile phone reception. 
He added that hes abroad quite frequently and takes a mobile phone registered to the 
country hes visiting, not his UK mobile phone. And he told us that hed not given TSB his 
international mobile phone number.
What TSB told us
TSB said that customers are sent an OTP to their mobile or UK landline number to 
authenticate a range of online banking and payment activities. They explained that they offer 
an automated voice call to a landline, as an alternative to OTP to mobile, to support 
customers who don't have mobile phones. Customers can also authenticate using TSBs 
mobile banking app.
TSB explained that for logging in to internet banking using a web browser, customers are 
asked to enter an OTP each time they log in, unless they're using a trusted device; then they 
need to enter an OTP every 90 days. TSB also explained that whilst they couldnt initially 
send OTPs to some international mobile phone numbers, this was resolved by the end of 
2020. They also explained that customers with a UK mobile phone can receive OTPs when 
travelling. They recognised that Mr F had been unable to receive OTPs when he was 
overseas in July/August 2020, but pointed out that hed still have been able to access his 
account through telephone banking.
TSB also confirmed that before he closed his account, they held a UK landline and UK 
mobile phone number for Mr F. They said when Mr F was having difficulty receiving an OTP 
it may have been because he was using a desktop computer abroad, but the phones they 
were sending the OTPs to were located in the UK.
Finally, TSB explained that their internet banking services are designed for use in the UK as 
their business is focussed on local banking.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. She said that TSB send OTPs to landlines 
as well as mobile phones, and so she didnt think TSB were failing to provide a non-mobile 
phone based method of authentication. She also said that if Mr F had had his UK mobile 
phone with him when he was abroad, hed likely have had no issues with receiving the 
OTPs. She said Mr Fs decision to move to a bank that uses card readers for authentication 
was a personal one. Overall, she didnt think TSB had done anything wrong.
Mr F disagreed. He said the only way hed been able to log in to online banking while abroad 
was to get his relative to relay the OTPs received to his UK landline or mobile via text 
message to his international mobile phone. He said, rather than strengthening security it 
weakened it. He also repeated that hed been asked for an OTP at every log in even though 
hed been using the same desktop computer abroad. And he didnt think having his UK 
mobile phone with him abroad would have made a difference when he experienced the 
problem in July/August 2020. Mr F added that his mobile phone signal coverage in the UK is 
variable and said, I am therefore continuously at a disadvantage where a OTP sent via 
mobile is demanded by a bank. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator did and for broadly the 
same reasons.
TSB were required by the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017) to 
implement SCA (also known as two-factor authentication). This means that when a payment service user accesses their payment account online, initiates an electronic payment, or 
carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment fraud, 
TSB must check that the payment service user is genuine by using something known to 
them (knowledge check), something only held by them (possession check), or something 
inherent to them (inherence check). As a minimum, the elements or factors used in SCA 
must derive from two of the three categories. For example, to login to online banking a 
payment service user will commonly need a password (knowledge) plus an OTP sent to a 
mobile phone held by the payment service user (possession).
Regulation 100(5) of the PSRs 2017 refers to exemptions from strong customer 
authentication. These say payment service providers (PSPs) can allow access to limited 
payment account information without requiring strong customer authentication. But where 
either the customer is accessing the payment account information online for the first time or 
it is more than 90 days since the customer accessed the online information and strong 
customer authentication was applied, strong customer authentication will be required.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to businesses required to implement 
SCA. This was principally set out in their publication Payment Services and Electronic 
Money  Our Approach. This made clear that the FCA expected payment service providers 
(PSPs) to develop SCA solutions that worked for all groups of consumers. The guidance 
said:
It may be necessary for a PSP to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all customers will possess a 
mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas without mobile 
phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly authenticate 
customers in these situations.
UK Finance has also issued guidance to businesses detailing a non-exhaustive list of 
authentication methods a PSP can employ to satisfy the possession element of SCA. 
These include:
Possession of a device evidenced by an OTP generated by, or received on a device 
(such as OTP by SMS text message)
Possession of a device evidenced by a signature generated by a device (hardware or 
software)
App or browser with possession evidenced by device binding
Card or device evidenced by QR code scanned from an external device
Possession of card evidenced by a card reader
Possession of card evidence by a dynamic card security code
OTP received by email account associated, bound or linked adequately to the 
cardholder
OTP received by landline number associated, bound or linked adequately to the 
cardholder
Im aware that TSB do provide more than one method of authentication. Personal account 
holders can strongly authenticate by receiving an OTP to their mobile phone (any type 
capable of receiving SMS text messages) or landline (where the OTP is spoken), or use 
biometric authentication if their mobile phone is set up for that. Im also aware that TSBs 
Personal Banking Terms and Conditions say that to hold a current or savings account, You 
must be resident in the UK . So, I don't agree with Mr F that TSB only send OTPs to 
mobile phones. I also dont think it's unreasonable that TSB designed their SCA process principally with their UK customer-base in mind, and based on the assumption that their 
customers would likely have a UK phone number (either mobile or landline).
Its clear that Mr F had problems logging in to online banking from abroad after TSB 
implemented their SCA process in March 2020, and I dont doubt that was frustrating and 
caused him some inconvenience. But I cant say thats because of anything TSB did wrong. 
The problem seems to have stemmed from the fact that Mr F didnt travel abroad with his UK 
mobile phone, and also didnt provide TSB with his international mobile phone number. If 
hed done either of those things, I think its more likely than not hed have received the OTPs 
he needed to log in to online banking directly. I say this because the country he was in was 
not one TSB had trouble sending OTPs to.
I appreciate that Mr F would have preferred TSB to adopt a card reader for generating OTPs 
or to send him OTPs via email. But whilst I think the regulations, and the associated 
guidance mean that TSB are required to offer authentication methods which are workable for 
customers who dont use mobile phones, I dont think theyre prescriptive about the 
authentication methods a payment service provider must offer. Its clear there are a range of 
ways PSPs can authenticate customers and not all PSPs will adopt the same range. TSBs 
standard alternative to mobile OTPs is landline OTPs. Landline OTPs are by their very 
nature static and best serve customers who do their online banking and online shopping at 
home. But I dont think the static nature of landlines makes them an unreasonable method of 
delivering OTPs for SCA purposes.
Mr F has said that he was even at a disadvantage when in the UK because when travelling 
in an area of poor mobile phone reception, he was unable to receive mobile OTPs. Whilst I 
appreciate what Mr F is saying here, I cant say that makes TSBs SCA methods 
unreasonable or unfair. If Mr F had stayed with TSB, I dont think his online banking access 
would have been significantly limited by TSBs SCA process. When banking at home hed 
have been able to receive OTPs to landline, and when travelling (in the UK or abroad) hed 
have been able to receive an OTP to mobile. If, when travelling, he was out of mobile 
reception range I think this would have been no more than a temporary situation, during 
which his account would have remained accessible through telephone banking. He could 
also have considered using TSBs mobile banking app (which is available on tablet devices 
and smartphones) if online banking was something he needed regularly to do away from 
home.
Mr F has also raised the issue that TSBs systems were requiring him to enter an OTP every 
time he logged in to online banking. I think the explanation for this is likely to be that TSBs 
systems werent recognising Mr Fs desktop computer as a trusted device. If hed remained 
a TSB customer, the reason for that could have been investigated and possibly resolved. But 
as he didnt and Ive seen no evidence as to why Mr Fs desktop computer didnt 
successfully become trusted, I cant say TSB did anything wrong here. I accept that TSB 
did indicate theyd only require an OTP to be entered every 90 days if a trusted device was 
used, and that wasnt Mr Fs experience. But I cant say it was unfair or unreasonable for 
TSB to require an OTP more frequently than that. SCA was introduced as a security 
measure and is required whenever a payment service user accesses their payment account 
online unless a specified exemption is applied. TSB werent under any obligation to apply the 
permitted exemptions and I dont think they acted unreasonably by requiring Mr F to receive 
an OTP at each log in.
Overall, I dont think TSBs implementation of SCA unfairly or unreasonably prevented Mr F 
from accessing TSBs online banking and payment services. I think the methods TSB offered 
Mr F to complete SCA were reasonable for him to use.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman