DRN-4255556
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society has not met its obligations in regard to a 
transaction made on his debit card to purchase glasses from an optician.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr B used his Nationwide Building Society (NBS for short) debit card to 
purchase some glasses. He said they were faulty, and he returned them some time later. He 
said he wanted his money back (over £211), but the opticians wouldnt refund him. So Mr B 
complained to NBS.
NBS looked into the matter and decided it hadnt done anything wrong with regard to its 
approach to chargeback, so it didnt refund him the cost of the glasses. Mr B wanted a full 
refund, so he brought his complaint here.
Our Investigator considered the matter and felt that NBS hadnt treated Mr B unfairly. But Mr 
B didnt agree so this decision comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the transaction
Mr B doesnt contest that he made the transactions for the glasses or suggest that they were 
applied incorrectly to his account. Accordingly Im satisfied NBS didnt do anything wrong in 
processing the transaction or applying it to his account.
could NBS challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr B does 
here, NBS can attempt to go through the chargeback process. Chargeback isnt a right, but 
this service does consider it good practice to raise a chargeback, if within the time limits and 
that there is a reasonable prospect of success. I dont think NBS couldve challenged the 
payments on the basis Mr B didnt properly authorise the transactions, given what Ive 
already set out.
NBS raised the chargeback with the opticians and gave Mr B a temporary credit for the 
amount he paid for the glasses. The opticians responded saying Mr B took possession of the 
glasses without checking they fitted and suited his needs. And that Mr B had tried to return 
them outside its terms and conditions and hadnt tried to resolve the matter with the 
opticians. It also noted that not long after Mr B bought the glasses the opticians was sold. So 
when Mr B returned the glasses hed actually given them to a different business albeit at the 
same address.
NBS considered this defence and made further representations which were also defended 
by the opticians. In the end NBS decided that the chargeback no longer had a reasonable 
prospect of success. So it then re-debited Mr Bs account the amount of the temporary 
credit.
Ive considered the defence of the opticians to the chargeback. And I think NBS has treated 
Mr B fairly by not taking the chargeback further. I say this because it is clear that NBS was 
told that Mr B hadnt tried to resolve the matter at the time and hadnt had the glasses fitted, 
contrary to the service provided by the opticians. So I dont think NBS had sufficient reason 
to continue with the chargeback.
I appreciate that NBS didnt use the appropriate chargeback reason here. But I dont think 
this makes a difference because the opticians provided a full defence to all the issues 
concerned here. So I dont think Mr B lost out because of this issue because the merchant 
provided a full commentary on what happened despite getting the wrong chargeback reason. 
So NBS made an informed decision at that point not to continue with the chargeback.
Mr B disputes the opticians description of what happened. And I appreciate he feels strongly 
about this. However the chargeback scheme is a process which enables firms to represent 
their card holders in disputes with merchants. But it isnt designed to be a process like a 
court where evidence is tested. Chargebacks are a straightforward process which enables 
both sides to have their say in disputes. And I can see NBS did represent Mr B throughout 
until it decided the dispute no longer had a reasonable prospect of success.
I appreciate Mr B has said hes lost out on the glasses and the cost of them. Unfortunately 
he gave the glasses to a different business. So if he wants them back he should go talk to 
the new business. And Im not persuaded NBS should refund Mr B.
All in all, having considered all of Mr Bs arguments Im not persuaded he has lost out 
because of how NBS treated his dispute with the opticians. And having considered 
everything here Im satisfied NBS hasnt treated Mr B unfairly. So Mr B complaint about 
NBS is successful.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Mr B wishes to read. And Im sorry he finds himself 
in this position. But this isnt NBSs fault. And considering the obligations NBS has, Im 
satisfied it hasnt treated him unfairly in not refunding him what he paid towards the glasses.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society. It has nothing further to 
do in relation to this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman