DRN-3802097
The complaint
Miss T complains that Metro Bank PLC closed her account.
What happened
Miss T received a letter from Metro Bank giving her 60 days notice that they would be 
closing her account with them. She contacted them and asked why her account was being 
closed and if they would give her an extension of the closure as she was struggling to open 
an account elsewhere. Metro declined to provide an extension and reiterated the account 
would close at the end of the 60 days. Miss T raised a complaint.
Metro Bank sent Miss T a final response letter in which it explained a routine review of her 
account highlighted adverse data relating to Miss T. A decision was made to close the 
account, in line with its terms and conditions. 
Miss T remained unhappy with this and referred the complaint to our service. When she did 
so, she provided evidence of her medical admission history and disclosed that she had 
some mental health issues which she felt Metro Bank should have taken into consideration. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint and felt that Metro Bank had closed the account in 
line with the terms and conditions and had provided reasonable notice of this. And that Metro 
Bank had been unaware of Miss Ts mental health issues, so they could not have considered 
them. 
Miss T did not accept the outcome. In summary her representative said that: 
Miss T had been a long-standing customer of Metro Bank and had not misused the 
account. 
Metro Bank could have asked Miss T about the adverse data before making the 
decision to close the account. 
Metro Bank should give a full explanation of why the account was closed and provide 
Miss T with compensation due to the effect this has had on her. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that Metro Bank has made an error when it closed Miss Ts 
account. Ill explain why in more detail. 
I can see that Metro Bank issued Miss T with a notice of closure which gave her 60 days 
notice that the account was due to close. This set out that the account was being closed in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Looking at the terms and conditions of the account, I can see that it does allow Metro Bank 
to close Miss Ts account for a number of reasons and it states it will usually give two 
months notice. 
Ive thought about this carefully and I think Metro Banks decision to close Miss Ts account 
was fair and was made in line with the terms and conditions of the account. Ive reviewed 
their evidence and rationale for making this decision and I dont think they reached it 
incorrectly or unreasonably. I think that they followed the correct process and gave 
reasonable notice, so I cant see they have made an error in the circumstances.  
I appreciate that Miss T would like and explanation as to why Metro Bank decided to close 
her account and thinks they should have contacted her to discuss this prior to the notice 
being given. But Metro Bank is under no obligation to provide a full explanation of their 
reasons for their decision. As explained above, I have reviewed their evidence and 
reasoning for closing Miss Ts account and I think they have applied this fairly when reaching 
a decision. I think they have closed the account as per the process set out in the terms and 
conditions and it was not a requirement that they speak with Miss T as part of this process. 
Miss T has kindly shared information with us about her mental health issues and feels these 
should have been taken into consideration by Metro Bank when she opened her account 
with them. Metro Bank have confirmed that they were not notified of Miss Ts mental health 
issues and it was up to Miss T to let them know if she wanted to share such information. 
Because of this, I cant agree that they have made an error when they did not consider 
information they were unaware of. And I dont think they now need to consider this 
retrospectively on this case. 
I do understand and appreciate that this has been difficult for Miss T. Ultimately, I have to 
consider Metro Banks actions alone and having done so, I cant see that they have made an 
error in the circumstances. As there is no error, I dont think it is reasonable to ask Metro 
Bank to award any compensation in this case. 
So, I dont think Metro Bank needs to take any action to remedy this complaint. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Ts complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman