DRN-1974971
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) closed his personal bank account 
without giving him any explanation or information. Hes also concerned that Barclays actions 
have adversely affected his credit file.  Hed like compensation for the financial loss hes 
suffered. 
What happened
In early September 2019, Barclays reviewed and subsequently restricted Mr Ms access to 
his bank account. Then on the 23 September 2019, Barclays sent Mr M a notice of closure 
letter explaining that it had decided to close his bank account with immediate effect. Mr Ms 
account was in credit. 
This letter explained that Barclays regularly reviews its accounts and having done that, it has 
decided to close Mr Ms account in accordance with its terms and conditions. Amongst other 
things, the letter also explained what Mr M could do to withdraw funds, relating to wages or 
benefits, in his account. 
Mr M complained to Santander, and shortly after referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint, and they thought Barclays had acted 
fairly. They also explained that Barclays hadnt added any adverse markers to Mr Ms credit 
file. So they didnt think Barclays had to do anything more. 
Unhappy with what our investigator said about this matter, Mr M asked for his complaint to 
be passed to an Ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator for the pretty much 
the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Barclays and Mr M had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by Barclays, Im satisfied it was entitled to 
close the account in the way that it has done. As I said above, Barclays had written to Mr M 
to explain its actions on the 23 September 2020 and in doing so signposted him to the 
relevant part of its terms and conditions that it was exercising this action under  section 11 
of its agreement for personal customers. 
Mr M says that this matter has caused him financial loss. He also says it has caused him 
and his family trouble and upset. I do appreciate that this matter wouldve caused him some 
difficulty. But having looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on 
which I might make an award against Barclays given that I dont think it failed to properly 
follow its own procedures when it closed Mr Ms account. 
So Im not going to ask Barclays to compensate Mr M for any trouble and upset this may 
have caused.
Lastly and for the sake of completeness, I note Mr M was told by Barclays what he needed 
to do in order to access his money once the account was closed. So I dont see how he has 
lost out financially. 
Credit file 
Mr M is concerned that his credit file or more aptly, information recorded on his credit 
records, will now adversely affect him.  Barclays has explained that it has not placed any 
such markers on Mr Ms credit files or other related records. And I havent seen anything to 
the contrary. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman