DRN-3016107
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont reimburse him after he fell victim 
to a scam and lost £1,740.14.
What happened
Mr L says he added an individual on a messaging app who he was told could help with 
trading investments. Mr L says he looked at the individuals posts which explained and 
showed the work they did. His initial contact was made by responding to a photo of 
investment opportunities the individual had posted on the messaging app. 
The individuals post quoted three different types of investments available for guaranteed 
returns. These were: 
Beginner - £700 for a return between £2,000 to £3,000
Professional - £1,000 for a return between £3,000 to £4,000 and 
Platinum - £2,000 for a return of £5,000 to £6,000
The post also said that this is 100% guaranteed for your first trade only and each trade is 
placed for 8-10 hours so you will receive your funds back the same day. 
In Mr Ls contact on 22 February 2020, he says he asked what he needed to do if he wanted 
to make an investment. After speaking with the individual and getting information about what 
they did and who they were, Mr L received the individuals contact number and they 
continued speaking over another messaging app. 
The individual instructed Mr L to download an app to create an account in his name with a 
cryptocurrency platform, which he did. Mr L told us he was then asked to buy Bitcoin for the 
investment he was looking to make, and to send it to the individuals wallet, which he did 
on 24 February 2020. Mr L transferred £500 from his Starling account to his cryptocurrency 
wallet to purchase the Bitcoin. He then sent it from his cryptocurrency platform wallet onto 
the individuals cryptocurrency wallet.  
Mr L says he was sent a terms and conditions agreement and that after reading these he 
contacted the individual to ask about the withdrawal fees that were mentioned. Mr L 
explained no response was received and so he chased this the next day and for an update 
on the investment. The individual sent Mr L a photo of a trade that had made over £8,000 as 
a return. Mr L was told hed need to pay a withdrawal fee of £2,480.27 to receive the funds. 
Mr L explains he could not afford to pay this, but after negotiating with the individual they 
agreed to pay 50% of the fee if he paid the remaining 50%. Mr L paid £1,240.14 on 
25 February 2020. This payment was made the same way Mr L had made the first. He 
transferred the funds from his Starling account to the cryptocurrency wallet in his own 
name and then onto the individuals cryptocurrency wallet. He adds that after paying this 
the individual said theyd need to check with their supervisor before releasing the return. 
The next day Mr L was informed hed need to pay the other 50% of the withdrawal fee. He 
reiterated he couldnt afford this and at this point asked for his money back. It was then the 
individual blocked him. 
Mr L raised this with Starling by email on 13 March 2020, where he attached a letter 
requesting a refund of the funds hed sent to the individual as the result of a scam. 
Starling initially responded on 14 March 2020 to say it wouldnt assess the claim as a scam 
as it was unable to dispute cryptocurrency transactions.  
Mr L responded to Starling as he was unhappy with its decision not to assess the claim and 
refund him the funds hed lost. Starling in a further response said Mr L made the payments 
for Bitcoin which he confirmed hed received and so the product/service was received and, 
therefore, there is nothing to dispute and no fraudulent activity has taken place. Starling 
added that as the transactions (transferred onto the recipient under the impression for an 
investment) took place from the cryptocurrency platform, Mr L would need to dispute this 
with them. It stated the payments Mr L made from his Starling account were made to an FCA 
regulated entity and not a scammer.  
Mr L was unhappy with this response and so he referred a complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked into things and didnt uphold it. He concluded the CRM code wasnt 
applicable in this case or that Starling was liable for the loss Mr L had suffered as a result of 
the scam. He accepted Mr L has been the victim of a scam and didnt think the scammer 
was offering a legitimate investment. However, as the transfers Mr L made were to a 
cryptocurrency wallet hed set up in his own name, where he then purchased Bitcoin and 
confirmed receipt of this (as such receiving the goods he was purchasing) he was satisfied 
that he hadnt lost any money until the onward payment from his own cryptocurrency wallet. 
He took into account that Mr L confirmed he had full control of the wallet in his name and 
that he had transferred the Bitcoin onto the scammers cryptocurrency wallet. As the 
payments didnt go directly to the scammer from Mr Ls Starling account the investigator 
found the payments werent covered by the CRM code.   
He also considered that at the time of the payments Starling should have fairly had systems 
in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might indicated that its 
customers were at risk of fraud. While our investigator recognised the payments were a lot of 
money to have lost for Mr L, he didnt think the payments stood out or were remarkable 
enough for Starling to be concerned that he might be at risk of financial harm. 
Mr L disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint.       
At the outset Id like to recognise Mr Ls strength of feeling about what has happened here 
and to acknowledge that I dont doubt that he has been the victim of a cruel scam. I 
recognise within Mr Ls submission a number of points have been raised. While I may not 
specifically comment on each and every point thats been raised this does not mean I have 
not considered all of the information thats been given to me by both Mr L and Starling. 
Simply I have commented on the aspects that I feel are key to this complaint. 
  My role in considering this complaint is limited to considering the action or inaction on the 
part of Starling and whether, if it ought to have acted differently, it wouldve been able to 
prevent the scam. When setting out his complaint, Mr L has described in detail his 
understanding of Starlings obligations and what he thinks the implications of those 
obligations are. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Mr L has referred to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) but the 
provisions of that code dont apply in all circumstances. And in this particular case, Im afraid 
the CRM code doesnt apply. I say this because, the CRM code refers to Authorised Push 
Payments (APP) where the transfer of funds is transferred to another person. In this case, 
Mr L transferred money from his Starling account to another account that he controlled 
(rather than directly to the eventual recipient). This means Starling isnt required to consider 
his complaint under the CRM Code as Mr L didnt transfer his funds to another person but to 
another account in his name. 
So, Ive gone on to think about whether Starling could have done anything else to prevent 
the scam; bearing in mind good industry practice at the time and considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. I have taken 
that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. 
But I am also mindful that when Mr L made the payments, Starling should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And 
there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or 
make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a 
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud.
Having thought very carefully about Starlings actions, I cant safely say it acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in allowing the payments to be made. And I dont think Starling should 
reasonably have been expected to prevent the loss. 
I say this because, unfortunately, I dont think the payments Mr L made were large enough to 
have caused Starling concern. Im not persuaded the payments Mr L made here were so 
unusual or suspicious to Starling that it ought to have intervened and asked questions about 
the payments in the particular circumstances of this case before the payments were 
processed. 
It is very unfortunate Mr L has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, and 
I recognise the whole experience will have been frustrating and very upsetting for him. But 
when considering all of the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Starling should have 
done more to prevent him from losing this money. 
So it follows, that I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Starling to refund the money Mr L 
has lost as the result of the scam. My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman