DRN-2075117
The complaint
Mrs W complains that some incorrect advice given to her by American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) (AmEx) meant that she wasnt able to use a travel voucher in the 
way shed intended.
What happened
Mrs W has an AmEx card which entitles her to a travel voucher once she reaches £20,000 of 
spending on the card. Mrs W wanted to use that voucher to make an expensive, and 
significant, trip in November 2020. To give her the best chance of being able to book this 
trip, she wanted to time the voucher to be issued at the end of November 2019. 
Mrs W rang AmEx in mid-September 2019, and asked about the balance on her card. She 
was given the current balance, but AmEx didnt tell Mrs W that the figure it gave her didnt 
include pending transactions. 
Mrs W then made a large transaction on her card, that she thought would bring her up to just 
under the £20,000 target for a voucher. But a pending transaction also cleared, and took her 
over the target amount. Mrs W cancelled the transaction straight away, and her spending 
went back down below the targeted amount. But the voucher was still issued. AmEx said it 
couldnt do anything about that. 
That meant Mrs Ws voucher was issued in at the end of September 2019. It was only valid 
for a year, so Mrs W couldnt use it towards her big trip in November 2020. She wanted 
AmEx to pay £1,000 for what had gone wrong. 
AmEx said that Mrs W hadnt told it how she wanted to use her voucher, or reminded it that 
she had recently made some transactions, so it didnt think it had made any mistakes in the 
advice it had given her. It didnt think it shouldve mentioned pending transactions when she 
asked about her balance, as these may not have ended up being authorised. 
AmEx also said that its never guaranteed that someone can use the voucher on the 
individual flight they want. And it said that all of these vouchers had been extended for six 
extra months anyway, because of the pandemic. So Mrs W could use it towards her big trip 
after all.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be partly upheld. He said AmEx hadnt 
included pending transactions in the total balance it gave Mrs W, and hadnt told her that 
those were excluded. He thought it shouldve told her that. Mrs W relied on the information 
shed been given by AmEx, and the voucher was issued too early. She couldnt use it when 
she wanted to. 
Our investigator didnt think a payment of £1,000 was reasonable, AmEx had still given the 
voucher to Mrs W, but he said that a payment of £250 was fair. 
AmEx didnt agree. It repeated that vouchers had been extended for six months anyway, so 
Mrs W could still use the voucher in the way she wanted to. AmEx said it was expecting a 
much lower compensation amount, possibly with some additional reward points. 
Our investigator said that Mrs W had used the voucher before the extension was offered. He 
still thought £250 was fair. 
Mrs W was happy to accept. But AmEx didnt respond to any further correspondence. 
Because AmEx hadnt agreed, our investigator passed this case to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
AmEx did give Mrs W incomplete information. But it said it just answered the question she 
asked. It said it didnt know why she wanted to know her balance. It wasnt obliged to guess 
what purpose Mrs W wanted this information for, and then offer extra information to support 
that. 
But I think it wouldve helped, with any enquiry at all about the balance on a card, for a call 
handler to mention that pending transactions werent included in the total. Even if Mrs W 
wanted the balance for something much more mundane, like monthly budgeting, I think she 
would still need this extra information. So I do think that AmEx made a mistake by not telling 
Mrs W that the balance it gave her didnt include pending transactions. And because of that, 
Mrs W didnt get the voucher she wanted, at the time she wanted it.
As our investigator said, Mrs W had been planning carefully for quite some time, so that she 
could give herself the best chance of being able to use the travel voucher in the way she 
wanted to. And it was important to her personally to make this trip. Shes experienced 
significant disappointment in not being able to do so. 
Its not clear whether Mrs W wouldve been able to make her trip anyway. But I dont think 
we can assume now that Mrs W was always going to be disappointed. I think its fair to look 
at what Mrs W and AmEx did at the time. And, with that in mind, I dont think that a payment 
of £50 would be enough to make up for whats gone wrong here. I think that the payment of 
£250 that our investigator recommended does provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. I think AmEx should pay that.My final decision
My final decision is that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) should pay 
Mrs W £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman