DRN-3716907
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc didnt provide the service it should have when he 
was trying to update signatories to his account and set up online banking. 
What happened
Mr D says that he is involved in several business and following the loss of the Chairman he 
contacted Bank of Scotland to establish the situation on the business accounts. He says that 
the branch provided various forms and so any issues with how they were completed were 
due to the branch on not him. He says that the process of sorting the signatories on the 
busines accounts and setting up online banking took a long time and he had to spend 
around 30 hours dealing with the various issues that arose. He didnt accept that the £400 
paid by Bank of Scotland as compensation for the poor service he received was enough. He 
thought an amount of around £5,000 was more reasonable given the time he had spent and 
his hourly charge rate. 
Bank of Scotland issued its final response letter in February 2022. Further letters were then 
sent endorsing the outcome in the February letter. While it didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint in 
regard to the setting up of online banking it accepted it hadnt provided him with the service it 
should have. It said it wasnt able to offer Mr D compensation of £140 an hour as it didnt 
cover personal rates but did provide him with £400 for the trouble he had been caused. 
Our investigator thought the £400 compensation paid was reasonable given the trouble and 
upset Mr D had been caused.
Mr D didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that incorrect forms were due to the 
actions of the bank and that it was wrong to say the bank wrote to him and received no 
response. He said the time spent dealing with the issues with Bank of Scotland resulted in a 
large loss of income and that the £400 compensation was nowhere near sufficient.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not doubting the amount of time Mr D has spent trying to resolve the issues with Bank 
of Scotland in regard to the account signatories and setting up online banking. I note that the 
issues have now been resolved and that Mr D is able to access his accounts online and so 
Mr D is now in the position he would have been had the issues not arisen. However, given 
the extended period the issues were unresolved, and the time spent in dealing with this I 
agree it is reasonable that Mr D is paid compensation. The outstanding issue is whether the 
£400 compensation paid by Bank of Scotland is reasonable given the issues and delays 
Mr D experienced.
I understand that Mr D thinks his hourly rate should be the basis for his compensation but as 
has already been explained this isnt how we would approach this. Instead we consider each 
case based on its own individual merits and assess the impact the issues experienced have 
caused. 
I have looked through the timeline of events and Mr D first approached Bank of Scotland in 
July 2021 to change the mandates on his business account. From that time until December 
2021 I can see that Mr D was sent letters but on occasions responses werent received and 
on other occasions the forms werent completed correctly. Bank of Scotlands system notes 
say that Mr D wasnt receiving letters and so it was agreed they would be sent and returned 
from the branch. This supports his comments that the branch was assisting in the process. 
However, having looked through the timeline of events it isnt clear that all the delay was due 
to the bank and it is reasonable that the correct forms would be needed before the requested 
action was taken.
I have considered the impact this had on Mr D and also noted that it was his responsibility to 
ensure the mandate information was kept up to date. I understand it would have been 
frustrating being delayed in setting up online banking and that he had to spend time on the 
issues, but noting the timeline of events and points of contact, I think the compensation of 
£400 is reasonable in this case. I know Mr D will not agree but based on the service issues 
set out I think that the Bank of Scotland has done enough to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc has done enough to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman