DRN-3066678
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank PLC (TSB) wont refund an unsuccessful ATM withdrawal 
that debited his account but didnt dispense the cash.
What happened
On 1 November 2020, Mr M attempted to withdraw £90 from an ATM. He says the ATM 
doors opened but didnt dispense the cash, then the ATM went offline. He reported it to TSB 
immediately and TSB originally refunded the £90 and paid him £31 in compensation, but 
later re-debited the £90 after completing its investigation. To put things right, Mr M wants 
TSB to refund the £90.
TSB said it had raised the dispute with the ATM owner who had replied with evidence to 
show the cash had been provided to Mr M. TSB said the balancing certificate showed the 
ATM in question had £20 more than it should have for the period 28 October 2020 to 3 
November 2020, so it was satisfied the £90 Mr M had requested hadnt been recalled to the 
ATM.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has provided the journal roll for the ATM, showing details of the transactions at and 
around the time of the withdrawal in question. And its sent our service a balancing certificate 
for the ATM. The journal roll doesnt show the usual in-depth step by step record that Id like 
to see on a case like this. I accept that the journal roll says £90 was requested and 
received, but it doesnt show anything more detail than that and our investigator set out the 
additional information our service would like to see in her view.
The balancing certificate shows that the ATM had £20 more than it should have, which TSB 
says is evidence that the £90 withdrawal wasnt recalled into the ATM. However, Im not 
persuaded by TSBs submission in that regard. The balancing certificate spans a period of 3 
days before and 2 days after the withdrawal in question which will have encompassed 
numerous transactions. So, I cant reasonably say that the certificate is evidence that one 
single transaction wasnt correctly processed. 
I can see Mr M did use the ATM he said he used, and that he reported the problem 
immediately then chased TSB several times afterwards. He then made a cash withdrawal of 
£90 as soon as TSB processed the temporary refund, which suggests he still needed that 
money. And Ive seen from Mr Ms statements that the withdrawal in question also sits within 
Mr Ms usual pattern of activity. Further, TSB hasnt been able to provide details of the purge 
bin so it cant demonstrate the failed withdrawal didnt end up back in the ATM via the purge 
bin.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I find Mr Ms submissions to be plausible. And Im not 
persuaded by the evidence TSB has provided that the cash was correctly dispensed. 
That being the case, TSB should refund Mr M the £90. Mr M has experienced a degree of 
distress and inconvenience as a result of this case, but on balance Im satisfied hes been 
appropriately compensated by TSBs payment of £31. So I wont ask TSB to pay any 
additional compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank PLC must pay Mr M £90.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman