DRN-4253575
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he acquired with credit from MI Vehicle Finance Limited trading as
Mann Island (MI) wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr M entered into a credit agreement with MI on 18 March 2022 to acquire a used car. The
credit to buy the car was granted by MI under a hire purchase agreement. This meant MI
was the owner of the car and Mr M was, in essence, paying for the use of it. As owner, MI
was responsible for the quality of the car.
The cash price of the car was £22,995 and the total amount owed under the agreement
including interest came to £27,413.60. Mr M paid £4,000 by way of a deposit and part-
exchange of his existing car. The remainder was to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of
£390.21 with a final repayment of £391.21. The vehicle was over seven years old when it
was supplied to Mr M and had covered 35,874 miles.
Mr M experienced issues with the car before the end of March 2022 and it went back to the
dealer for repair in early April. The car came back from the garage on 19 April and Mr M was
told that the AC condenser and the offside rear ABS sensor had been replaced and a new
battery fitted. The car was back in for repair with the dealer in May as the ABS light had
come on again. Mr M was told that the issue was a loose connection from the previous ABS
sensor repair.
Mr M experienced issues with the car in June and July 2022. On 27 June the car went in for
repair of an oil leak and the ABS. Mr M said that the car was with the dealer for about nine
days this time. Soon after the car was returned, the ABS light came on again and Mr M
experienced the car pulling to the left. The car was brought to a different garage on 11 July
to fix the tracking.
Mr M complained to MI in August. The ABS warning light was coming on and the car was
emitting smoke. The car went back to the dealer in September who replaced the front left
ABS sensor and the EGR valve. Mr M had experienced issues with the gears, which were 
confirmed by the dealer. However, the dealer said that this issue appeared to have sorted
itself after the repairs.
MI issued a final response to Mr M in October about his complaint. It said that the dealer had
fixed all the issues apart from a repair to the exhaust flexi pipe, which was down to wear and
tear. MI paid Mr M £150 for the inconvenience of having to return the car to the dealer
several times for repairs.
Mr M got in touch with us. He wanted to return the car and have his down payment of £4,000
refunded. In January 2023 one of our investigators looked into things for Mr M. They found
that the repairs appeared to have been successful but Mr M hadnt been able to use the car
for the whole of the time hed had it, given how often it had been in for repairs. They
recommended that in addition to the £150 MI had paid Mr M, it should refund his repayments
for two months, being £780.42.
On 2 February 2023 Mr M told us that he didnt accept the recommendation to resolve his
complaint because he was once again experiencing issues with the ABS sensor. The car
failed an MOT on 17 February 2023 with three major defects, including a fault with the ABS.
Mr M took it to a garage for repair about a week later and provided an invoice for the repair
dated 8 March 2023. This confirmed the ABS light was on, along with the traction control
light. The repair was to the offside rear ABS sensor. The car passed an MOT on 10 March.
The garage quoted Mr M for what it called a more permanent fix which involved replacing the
ABS wiring and sensors.
We looked into Mr Ms complaint again with this new evidence and recommended that Mr M
be allowed to return the car. Attempts at repair had happened and further repairs would not
be an appropriate remedy given the length of time Mr M had been dealing with the faults.
MI didnt accept this recommendation. It said the latest work had been carried out at a
garage Mr M chose and the quote appeared biased towards what he wanted, which was to
reject the car. In addition, the garage found that after repair the car showed no fault codes or
evidence of the faults returning. MI said it hadnt had the opportunity to inspect the car to
confirm the faults and questioned why Mr M hadnt been in touch when the ABS light
reappeared in 2023.
MI asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to decide and it came to me. I sent 
out a provisional decision on 5 July 2023. I shared the information Id relied on, explained 
why I thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld and set out my proposals for putting things 
right for him. I allowed some time for the parties to provide any comments or new information 
for me to consider when making my final decision. Mr M accepted my provisional decision 
and MI had no further comments or information. This is my final decision on the matter and 
will be legally binding on Mr Ms acceptance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, and having no comments or new information to consider, 
Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. Im upholding Mr Ms 
complaint and will set out my reasons again for doing so. 
As Id said in my provisional decision, The Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015 is relevant 
here. This act implies a term into any contract to supply goods that those goods will be of 
satisfactory quality. Satisfactory means what a reasonable person would expect, taking into 
account the description of the goods, the price and any other relevant circumstances. The 
quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like their 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability. The relevant circumstances in this complaint would include, for example, the 
nature of the fault and the age and mileage of the car.
The CRA gives customers solutions if they find themselves with faulty goods. They can
reject the goods if the fault happens within 30 days, or have the goods repaired or replaced.
Outside of this period the supplier has the chance to repair the goods before anything else
happens. The supplier must either repair or replace the goods within a reasonable time and 
without significant inconvenience to the customer (Section 23). If this doesnt solve the
problem and its found that the fault was there or developing when the goods were supplied,
then a consumer might be entitled to other solutions such as a price reduction or a final right
to reject the goods.MI told us that from the dealers perspective none of the faults were present at the point of
sale and none were because of a failed attempt at a previous repair. The dealer said it
carried out the repairs under warranty and not because it accepted liability for them. The first
ABS issue (with the offside rear sensor) in March 2022 had been repaired and hadnt
reoccurred. The dealer said the second ABS issue (front left sensor) could have been
caused by the repair to the oil sump in June/July. That repair had involved unplugging both
sensors and a loose connection upon reinstalling could have caused the ABS light to come
on. The dealer said it wasnt given the chance to put this right until September.
This is at odds with Mr Ms account. He said that the he told the dealer the ABS/traction
control light had come on again before it went in for repair in June. The car went back to the
dealer on the 27 June and was returned on 7 July. Mr M said he was told the ABS and the
oil leak were fixed. The next day Mr M called the dealer to say that the ABS light was on
again and the car was pulling to the left.
I havent made a finding as to whether the dealer missed a chance to repair the ABS when it
had the car in June/July. The repairs needed earlier in the year in March/April were to do
with a rear ABS sensor and the work in September involved the front ABS sensor. It may be
that these issues were linked to an underlying problem but I havent concluded that the work
carried out in September was due to a failed repair earlier in the year.
However, I understand that the car failed its MOT in February 2023 in part due to a problem
with the rear offside ABS sensor, which the dealer had repaired in March/April the previous
year. This issue manifested shortly after the car was supplied so I think it was there or
developing at the point of supply. Mr M chose to have the fault repaired at that time rather
than reject the car. However, Mr M had driven just over 3,000 miles before the fault
appeared again (February 2023) and so I think its more likely than not that the earlier repair
on the rear sensor had failed.
MI said that the garage that carried out the repair on the rear offside ABS in March 2023 was
biased towards Mr Ms view of events, in other words that the car wasnt fit for purpose when
it was supplied. The invoice provided for the repair said that the wiring harness for the ABS
sensors showed signs of multiple previous sub-standard repairs. The garage found that any
attempts now to repair would only be temporary and quoted for a new wiring loom and
offside rear sensor. MI said that it has had no opportunity to inspect the car to confirm if the
faults did return and that there was no supporting evidence of this issue returning apart from
the invoice provided by Mr M.
As mentioned, the car failed its MOT in part due to the issue with the ABS sensors. Im
happy to rely on the reported MOT as independent evidence of the issue returning. I
understand from Mr M that the MOT was not carried out by the repairing garage. Mr M has
confirmed that the fault has not reoccurred since he paid for the temporary fix but he is now
in a position where he feels he will have to pay for the cost of a full repair (quoted as £1,223)
to ensure this particular issue doesnt reoccur. Mr M wishes to reject the car.
The dealer has had a reasonable period of time to fix this issue. I think another attempt at
repair would likely cause further inconvenience to Mr M. Ive concluded that he should now
be allowed to reject the car on this basis.
The car had travelled 35,874 miles when supplied and by 10 March 2023 had travelled 
39,052. I dont know what the current mileage is. I think its fair that Mr M pays something
for his use of it given hed have incurred some costs to stay mobile otherwise. The
monthly payments were £390 (rounded) but I dont think this is a fair reflection of the use
Mr M made of the car. A proportion of these payments went towards repaying interest and
its clear Mr M didnt make as much use of the car as he could have and that hisenjoyment of it was curtailed by the issues he experienced. Altogether, I think a fair
amount Mr M should pay is £275 for each month hes had the car. Anything Mr M has paid in 
excess of this amount should be treated as an overpayment and refunded.
In addition, Mr M has experienced distress and inconvenience by being supplied with a
faulty car. There isnt a specific calculation for awards to compensate for the emotional
impact of errors. We have an approach which Ive borne in mind alongside everything
else when making this decision. As set out on our website, an award of over £300 and up
to £750 might be fair where the impact of a mistake has caused considerable upset and
worry and significant inconvenience that needed extra effort to sort out, typically over
weeks or months. I think an award in this range would be appropriate here.
Putting things right
MI now needs to:
End the agreement with nothing for Mr M to pay going forwards and collect the car at 
no further cost to him;
Limit Mr Ms liability to £275 a month for each month hes had the car;
Consider all payments Mr M made above this limit including his deposit as 
overpayments;
Add an amount of £228.53 to this overpayment total to cover the cost of repair of the 
car in March 2023;
Refund this total to Mr M along with 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of reimbursement;
Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Mr Ms credit file;
Pay Mr M an amount of £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused him.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MI to take off tax from this interest. MI must give Mr M a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about MI Vehicle 
Finance Limited trading as Mann Island and it now needs to put things right as Ive set out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman