DRN-3668589
The complaint
Miss Y complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt provide her with 
the service it should have when she wanted to close her credit card account. 
What happened
In January 2022, Miss Y was contacted about her existing credit card becoming a Virgin 
Money credit card. She decided to close her credit card account as she already had a Virgin 
Money credit card. She says she made several calls, incurring additional charges and was 
then told she could write to cancel the card. She did this but didnt get a response, she then 
wrote again but still didnt get a response. Miss Y says she was applying for a mortgage at 
the time and was advised to reduce the amount of credit card accounts she had so the 
issues she experienced in closing her account were particularly stressful. 
Virgin Money said it didnt have evidence of Miss Ys calls or letters but accepted her 
testimony and agreed that it hadnt provided Miss Y with the service it should have. It offered 
to pay her £75 for the costs and distress and inconvenience this had caused. It confirmed 
that Miss Ys credit card account had been closed on 8 March 2022 following an online 
closure request. It further confirmed that her other credit card account and other accounts 
with Virgin Money had also been closed.
Miss Y referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator 
considered the issues raised and thought that Virgin Money had done enough to put things 
right for Miss Y.
Miss Y acknowledged our investigators view and asked for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at complaints, our role is to consider whether a business actions have been 
fair and reasonable and whether any mistakes have been made. Where mistakes have been 
made, we would expect the business to put the consumer back in the position they had been 
had the mistake not happened, and, where appropriate, we would recommend that 
compensation is paid.
Miss Y has explained that she contacted Virgin Money in January 2022 to close her credit 
card account. I can understand why she was frustrated that she wasnt able to make contact 
by telephone and had to spend long times on hold. This inconvenience was added to by not 
receiving responses to her letters. I can appreciate that given the service she received, and 
her concerns about having several open credit accounts, she then decided to close both of 
her Virgin Money credit card accounts. 
Virgin Money has provided evidence to show that Miss Y submitted a closure request online 
and that her credit card account was closed on 8 March. It says that she would have 
received an automated notification of the closure. I can see form Miss Ys credit file, that the 
account was noted as settled on 31 March. 
I do not have the evidence of the calls Miss Y made or letters she sent trying to close her 
credit card account but having considered her testimony I accept that she had tried to close 
her account in January 2022. While her attempts to close the account by telephone and 
letter didnt appear successful when she submitted her request online this was actioned. I 
can also see that Miss Ys other Virgin Money credit card account has been closed as per 
her request and that it is also recorded on her credit file as being settled.
As the accounts have been closed, the outstanding issue is whether the £75 compensation 
cheque sent to Miss Y is enough. I can understand why this process has been upsetting for 
Miss Y. She spent a long time on calls trying to close her account, as well as sending letters, 
and as she was looking to apply for a mortgage at the time and had been advised to reduce 
her number of credit accounts, the delays were particularly distressing. Miss Y estimates the 
cost involved in making the calls was around £10 and while I do not have evidence of this, I 
have considered it as part of my assessment. 
I have also considered the actions Virgin Money took and can see that it responded to 
Miss Ys online request for her account closure. The account was closed of 8 March 2022 
and Virgin Money has explained that Miss Y will have been sent confirmation of this. I have 
taken into account that Virgin Money accepted Miss Ys testimony of the issues she 
experienced, apologised and offered compensation as well as confirming the status of her 
other accounts. 
Taking all of this into account, I think the £75 compensation cheque sent to Miss Y is 
reasonable and I do not require Virgin Money to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to do 
anything further to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Y to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman