DRN-3889493
The complaint
Mr W had motor insurance with AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). He complains that AXA said 
he was at fault when he notified it of an incident.
What happened
Mr W hit a dog whilst out driving. Unfortunately the dog died and Mr Ws vehicle was 
damaged. Mr W made a claim for the damage to his vehicle against the insurance of the 
person in charge of the dog. He didnt make a claim with AXA, but he did tell AXA what 
happened.
AXA wrote to Mr W, saying:
Thank you for telling us about your incident.
We are aware that you are not pursuing a claim for your vehicle under the terms of your 
policy. Should you wish to claim for your damage, please contact us to discuss this further.
If you would like us to deal with the damage to the vehicle, please contact us on [phone 
number] and we will go through the options that are available for you
Next steps
We have noted this incident for information purposes only and will be taking no action.
Based on your description of the incident we consider you to be at fault. This means that we 
have an obligation to pay any reasonable claim made against you, if you've caused damage 
to property not belonging to you.
Mr W complained to AXA, saying he wasnt at fault. He says AXA didnt reply, so he 
complained to this service. This service asked AXA to respond to Mr Ws complaint. 
AXA said:
After reviewing your claim, I can confirm that your notified claim has been closed correctly. 
All claims when notified, are registered as fault until evidence is provided to suggest 
otherwise.
The industry standard is to hold a claim in a ready state. This is so that any correspondence 
from any third-party representatives is dealt with, who may seek to claim, or accept liability, 
from your insurance policy.
AXA Insurance have correctly closed your claim as notification only following several months 
of no contact from any third-party insurers. In consideration of this, I have not upheld your 
complaint.
Mr W wasnt happy with AXAs response and resumed his complaint with this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. The investigator said he couldnt agree that AXA 
made any error in recording the claim as fault whilst it was still open, and AXA had updated 
Mr W appropriately when the situation changed.
Mr W wasnt happy with what the investigator said, so his complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr W wants compensation and reimbursement of the costs of dealing with his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
I can see that about four months after the incident, before Mr W complained to this service, 
AXA wrote to him, saying:
I write to confirm the present position of your reported incident.
All open claims whilst unresolved without an admission of liability from the third party insurer 
will show on our system as a potential fault with NCD interpretively affected.
As you have opted to not claim for repairs to your vehicle and no correspondence has been 
reprieved [sic] from the third party in the past three months we will now be able to close your 
claim as a notification only of the incident, allowing your full NCD.
Your file will now be closed as a non fault notification of incident only with full no claims 
discount reinstated.
If you have any questions, please contact us and well be happy to help.
I can also see that about three months after this, again before Mr W complained to this 
service, AXA wrote to him saying:
Our response to your complaint
Thank you for contacting us about your complaint, I am sorry you are unhappy with the 
service you have received. I have attempted to contact you via telephone to discuss your 
complaint, however, I was unsuccessful. I have completed my review of your complaint, 
please see a summary of my findings.
I understand you are unhappy that following your notification of the above incident, AXA 
deemed that you would be at fault for this. Upon review, I can see in this instance due to the 
circumstances, we would not be able to recover any claim costs and therefore this decision 
was correct.
Further to this, while the claim was open it would correctly report as a fault until a time, we 
have confirmation of liability from a third party or our costs were recovered, as per industry 
standard. As the correct processes have been followed, I have not upheld these sections of 
your complaint.
I can see however, that after you have told us you are not claiming through your car 
insurance, there was an avoidable delay in the claim being closed as notification only due to 
a breakdown of our Internal process. I have upheld this section of your complaint.
I agree this Is not the standard of service I would expect to see, and l apologise for any 
distress and inconvenience this has caused. In consideration of the above I would like, to offer £50 In compensation, please contact us using the details on this letter to arrange this 
payment.
Mr W did the right thing in notifying AXA of what happened. However in cases like this where 
the insurer hasnt received confirmation of the third party insurers position, it is usual for the 
insurer to initially record the claim as a fault claim, so that it stays open in case there is 
subsequently a claim from the third party. AXA has accepted that there was an avoidable 
delay in the claim being closed and it has apologised and offered compensation to Mr W. I 
think was a fair and reasonable response in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. So I wont be asking AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30p May 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman