DRN-1556644
 
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs S complain that Nationwide Building Society (when it was trading as 
Staffordshire Building Society) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to Nationwide in my decision.
What happened 
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs S in 1992. The PPI 
protected Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage repayments in the event either of them couldnt work as 
a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
view so the complaint has been passed to me.
Mr and Mrs S mainly complain that they were told that they had to have PPI although they 
say they didn't need the cover.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Usually, Id look at the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been presented. But Nationwide hasnt been able to provide 
anything signed by Mr and Mrs S to show me how they actually took out the PPI. 
I dont think thats surprising. This mortgage account closed very many years ago. I wouldnt 
expect Nationwide to keep all its records about a closed account for so long. 
And whilst Ive no doubt that Mr and Mrs S are certain about what theyve told us, it wouldnt 
be reasonable after all this time to expect them to recall exactly what was said when they 
were arranging their mortgage and the PPI. So what they say about the way they were sold 
this PPI isn't enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint.
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely. In order to 
uphold this complaint Id have to find it likely that Mr and Mrs S werent given a fair choice 
about PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account without their consent.
Looking at the mortgage application that Mr and Mrs S signed, I can see this includes a 
section on PPI. After setting out a brief description of the policy benefits, it says: If you wish to benefit from protection please indicate the percentage of benefits to apply to the 
applicant(s) and complete the section below...
So Mr and Mrs S wouldve been able to see that having the PPI was optional. And they 
signed their completed mortgage application without completing the PPI part of the form. So 
it looks to me like they understood at the time that it was up to them to say if they wanted 
PPI and that it wasnt compulsory with the mortgage. And at that early stage in the process, 
PPI wasnt something they chose to take out when they filled out their mortgage application.
But it looks like they changed their minds about having the PPI. Nationwide has sent me 
notes of an interview Mr and Mrs S told us they had in their local branch  this was around a 
week or so after theyd completed their mortgage application. The notes say that 
Mr and Mrs S have accumulated savings with the Society of over £77,000, the joint income 
is substantial and have taken the benefit of safeguarding this further by taking out a full PPI 
policy. By using part of their capital they have only asked for a very low percentage loan well 
within their means.
So although I dont know what was said about PPI, it looks like Mr and Mrs S reconsidered 
their position and decided during the course of that interview that they did want the benefits 
of having PPI. And I can completely understand why someone in their position mightve 
wanted to have PPI.
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period of 
time. Their home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided an affordable and dependable means of ensuring their monthly mortgage 
repayments were protected even if one (or both) of them couldnt work. So, I can see why 
Mr and Mrs S mightve felt PPI was useful. I think its likely that protecting their mortgage 
repayments in the event of unexpected accident, sickness or unemployment wouldve been 
an important consideration for Mr and Mrs S at the time.  
Theres nothing mentioned in Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage offer that suggests that PPI was a 
requirement of the mortgage  it refers to the PPI as something they requested. And looking 
at the schedule of insurance it appears they took out some extra cover offered by the policy 
over and above the PPI, which makes me think they wanted to take full advantage of 
everything the policy offered them.  
On balance, the information Ive seen indicates overall that Mr and Mrs S wanted to have the 
benefits and security of having PPI (as the meeting notes suggest) and they decided to buy 
the policy. 
Its completely understandable that Mr and Mrs S might now have forgotten this. But, I cant 
fairly say that Nationwide didnt make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs S not to choose 
PPI if they didnt want to have it - just based on what they say.  
Based on all the information Ive seen, I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs S aware that the 
PPI was optional and that they both chose to have it.
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide recommended them to take out the policy. Nationwide says it 
didnt. I dont think I've seen enough to be able to say that Nationwide personally 
recommended them to take out the policy. But Nationwide still had to make sure it gave 
Mr and Mrs S enough clear information so they could decide if the policy was right for them. 
And if Nationwide didn't do this, Ive thought carefully about whether having clearer 
information wouldve made any difference overall.  Looking at the likely policy terms that would've applied when they took out this PPI, 
Mr and Mrs S both appear to have been eligible for the policy. 
As they were both working and contributing to the mortgage monthly repayments the benefit 
split between them seems reasonable to me. 
Mr and Mrs S both had good sick pay entitlement through work  they told us theyd each 
expect to get sick pay for 12 months. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of this and for 
longer  up to 18 months for a successful accident or sickness claim. So I think the policy 
could've provided a useful extra benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time  
particularly as Mr and Mrs S mightve faced extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled. 
And the PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 18 months per claim if either (or both) of them 
became unexpectedly unemployed. Repeat claims were possible giving Mr and Mrs S long 
term protection whilst they were paying for their home.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs S had substantial savings when they took out their 
mortgage and this PPI. But this doesn't mean that they couldnt have benefitted from the 
policy. I say this because there was no guarantee that Mr and Mrs S wouldve always had 
savings they could rely on if theyd needed to make a claim. 
And it looks like they preferred to keep back some of their savings, or they had other plans 
for that money, since they took out this mortgage rather than invest all their savings to 
reduce (or even avoid the need for) their borrowing. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs S could 
depend on being able to continue to keep the balance of their savings intact to spend on 
other things or to provide financial security for the future. I think that was probably an 
important consideration for Mr and Mrs S at the time (as the meeting notes suggest). 
Also, from the meeting notes, it looks like Mr and Mrs S changed their minds and decided to 
keep back £2,000 more than theyd originally intended to put towards buying their new 
home. So it seems likely to me that keeping that money safe to use for other planned 
spending or as a nest egg for their future security mattered to Mr and Mrs S  and PPI 
wouldve given them peace of mind about this. For these reasons, although its possible they 
mightve been able to use their savings to pay their mortgage, I think the PPI was still useful 
to them. 
There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs S 
wouldve been affected by any of the usual conditions limiting the policys main benefits. So, 
I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve put them 
off taking it out.
Its possible information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they each chose to take out the policy when they didnt have to and so it 
appears to me they did want to have this type of cover. Ive seen nothing to suggest it was 
unaffordable for them. 
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs S wouldve made a different decision if 
clearer information had been provided. So I cant see that theyve lost out as a result of 
anything Nationwide did wrong. This means that Nationwide isnt required to do anything to 
put things right.
In my decision I've concentrated on dealing with the main points raised that affect the 
outcome of this complaint. I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. 
But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman