DRN-3725929
The complaint
Mrs T complains ReAssure Limited failed in the service they provided on her pension plan.
What happened
After Mrs Ts pension was transferred to ReAssure, her monthly contribution to her pension 
(of £160) wasnt collected for August 2020. This happened again in October 2020. 
Mrs T says she spent some time trying to contact ReAssure and they told her they were 
setting things up and there might be some delay. ReAssure went on to take an extra 
payment to make up for their error in respect of the October 2020 contribution.
Mrs T complained to ReAssure, and they replied on 12 February 2021. ReAssure agreed
errors had been made but told her the plan was up to date. ReAssure paid Mrs T £100 to
reflect her distress and inconvenience. Mrs T replied and complained their letter was wrong.
She said ReAssure had continued to fail to address the missing August 2020 contribution 
and so her plan was not up to date. 
Due to ongoing dis-satisfaction that ReAssure were not addressing this, Mrs T referred her 
complaint to this service in February 2021. ReAssure sent Mrs T a letter on 25 March 2021 
apologising and letting her know they would fund the August 2020 payment and apply it to 
her plan. 
In July 2021 Mrs T told us ReAssure hadnt applied a payment to her plan to make up the 
missing contribution. She sent us screen shots of her plan to confirm this. On 16 November 
2021 Mrs T received a message from ReAssure to say there had been a £200 over payment 
on her plan and this had been returned to her bank. 
Our investigator drew the conclusion that a department at ReAssure had funded Mrs Ts 
account with the £200 as theyd undertaken to do, but this had then failed to be properly 
applied by ReAssure to her pension. The £200 sum reflecting the £160 if Mrs Ts usual 
contribution and the £40 tax relief applied. This thinking hasnt been contradicted by either 
party.
The investigator attempted to contact ReAssure in November 2021 about this and was told
his message would be responded to. He followed this up with emails in November 2021, 
several emails in December 2021 and then January 2022. Having heard nothing he went on 
to issue his view.
Investigators view
The investigator issued a view on 17 January 2022. In summary he upheld her complaint. 
He said the £160 August 2020 contribution had not been applied to Mrs Ts plan as it ought 
to have been, nor had a subsequent contribution made and backdated to August 2020, as 
ReAssure had undertaken to do.
The investigator drew the conclusion that when ReAssure sent Mrs T £200 in March 2021,
this was because they had failed to apply it to her plan, and hadnt backdated it for the
August 2020 contribution as they had undertaken. The investigator thought Mrs T was right
to have expected her August 2020 contribution to have been made and applied.
Taking account of the time, inconvenience and distress thus far caused to Mrs T, the
investigator recommended that instead of Mrs T repaying the contribution sum to ReAssure 
to then apply to her pension, she ought to keep the £200 sent to her, to represent a further 
payment for distress and inconvenience, on top of the £100 that had previously been paid to 
her. He didnt think the £100 paid previously had been enough. 
The investigator also said that ReAssure must apply and backdate a payment to Mrs Ts 
pension plan to ensure her August 2020 contribution was applied. Mrs Ts contributions 
being £160 and £40 tax relief; making up the total of £200. Mrs T accepted the investigators 
view.
On 8 March 2022, after further chasing by the investigator, ReAssure accepted the
investigators view in general terms. However on 10 March 2022 ReAssure wrote to Mrs T
saying they could not apply £200 to her August 2020 premium, as this sum had been
refunded to her. 
The investigator went on to issue a second view. He explained he had tried to simplify the 
approach the redress, given the amount of time matters had taken thus far, and given 
ReAssure had accepted they needed to do something. He offered an alternative solution. 
Since this date our investigator has spent some time trying to contact to ReAssure to
address the situation. On 19 July 2022, ReAssure contacted us to apologise for the delay,
they told us they were seeking guidance and hoped to have an update soon. Despite further
chasing from the investigator, we have heard nothing further. For this reason the case was
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this matter on 13 September 2022. I set out that I intended 
to uphold Mrs Ts complaint and why. As I agreed with what had been said by the 
investigator, I indicated any responses needed to be provided by 27 September 2022.
Mrs T confirmed she had changed her plan with ReAssure to a retirement account that 
enables some withdrawal element. She said she did not have the plan information yet. We 
did not hear back from ReAssure. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure agree they failed to provide satisfactory service here. Mrs Ts August 2020 
contribution ought to have been collected and applied to her plan. When the failure was 
brought to ReAssures attention, they ought to have ensured this was remedied as soon as 
possible. This didnt happen. Indeed Mrs T was given contradictory and inconsistent 
information about how the error was being sorted out. I accept she spent significant time and 
was given an administrative burden when it came to trying to sort out ReAssures failure.
I am pleased the failure in respect of the October 2020 contribution was addressed and 
remedied. However the issues in respect of the August 2020 contribution remained 
outstanding.Given ReAssure accepted the investigators view at the start of this year, it is disappointing 
this matter remained outstanding. I havent seen any reason or explanation as to why 
ReAssure have not addressed this situation nor any reason why they have not replied to 
communications about this matter. 
I previously explained I didnt want to delay this matter any further for Mrs T, and I didnt 
want to impose any further administrative burden for Mrs T. She has spent a lot of time trying 
to sort matters out, including sending us communications from ReAssure, that directly 
contradicted their agreement with the investigators view.
Putting things right
What ReAssure must do
ReAssure must send Mrs T directly, a payment of £200 within 28 days of being informed of 
Mrs Ts acceptance of my decision.  
I previously set out that ReAssure must apply and backdate a payment to Mrs Ts pension 
plan, to ensure her August 2020 contribution is made in full. Mrs Ts regular contribution 
being £200 (£160 plus £40 tax relief). I set out that I intended to require ReAssure to apply 
and backdate this payment. And that I would not require Mrs T to send any sum to ReAssure 
to represent her August 2020 premium. 
Since issuing my provisional decision, I now understand Mrs Ts pension plan has been 
converted into a retirement account. She is awaiting the full new plan information. These 
types of accounts usually allow for contributions to be made and so I considered whether it 
was right here to say ReAssure must make a payment into her plan of the relevant sum. But 
on balance I have decided ReAssure must make the payment slightly differently.
Taking everything into account I conclude it is fair for ReAssure to pay the sum of £200 to 
Mrs T directly. I am not making any adjustment to this sum in respect of tax nor does it 
appear to me that I ought to consider any annual allowance issues. This is not a precise 
calculation, but given the sums involved and what has happened, I consider this a 
reasonable approach to redress. I dont have enough information to comfortably conclude 
what might be done about ReAssure applying to Mrs Ts new plan, nor am I persuaded this 
would be done with expedition and in such a way that would be straightforward for Mrs T.
Distress and inconvenience
The overall award I make to represent Mrs Ts distress and inconvenience is for £300.
ReAssure do not need to pay anything further to Mrs T to address this award.
ReAssure paid Mrs T £100 to represent her distress and inconvenience in early
2021. This was not sufficient to represent what went wrong here and the impact on Mrs T.
Indeed it was said to only address the error around the October 2020 premium.
For this reason a further award is made of £200. Mrs T was paid £200 by ReAssure in
November 2021. Mrs T is to retain this sum and understand this £200 represents the
remainder of the overall award of distress and inconvenience.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given I am upholding Mrs Ts complaint against ReAssure Limited. 
ReAssure are to complete the redress exercise set out above. Here that means they must pay Mrs T the sum of £200 directly within 28 days of being notified of her acceptance of my 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman