DRN-3148332
The complaint
Mr K complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, trading as Moneybarn, irresponsibly
granted him a loan he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr K acquired a car and financed the deal through a conditional sale
agreement with Moneybarn. Mr K was required to make 48 monthly repayments of
£197.86. The total repayable under the agreement was £9,699.42.
Mr K says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. 
Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included a 
review of Mr Ks credit file and validation of his income. They also said they had reviewed 
statistical data to establish what Mr Ks expenditure was likely to be.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr K didnt agree and explained that after one year he fell into arrears on the account and 
couldnt keep up with payments. He said at that point Moneybarn reassessed his agreement 
and extended it.
Mr K asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
The credit check Moneybarn completed showed, amongst other things, there was an active 
default and a recent County Court judgment against Mr K.  I think this ought to have 
indicated that Mr K was likely to be struggling financially. It therefore would have been 
proportionate for Moneybarn to have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Ks financial 
circumstances before lending.
Ive considered what Moneybarn would likely have found out if it had completed reasonable 
and proportionate affordability checks. Weve asked Mr K to provide us with evidence of his 
financial circumstances at the time the lending was taken out. Ive been able to review bank 
statements from before the application was made but its clear from those statements that Mr 
K was also regularly transferring money to another account. He hasnt provided statements 
from that account so I dont think he has given us enough information to fairly determine 
what proportionate checks would likely have shown Moneybarn. 
As Mr K hasnt been able to demonstrate that the agreement was unaffordable, I cant 
reasonably conclude that Moneybarn ought to have known he would struggle to make the 
repayments. 
Its Moneybarns decision to lend to Mr K in January 2019 that Im considering here and not 
any subsequent extension of the agreement. Im therefore not persuaded that Moneybarn 
acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman