DRN-3400439
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain about advice Sandringham Financial Partners Limited gave them 
regarding their remortgage. 
What happened
Mrs J and Mr J took out a residential mortgage in 2019 which was secured over their 
residential property. They had a fixed interest rate which was coming to an end in February 
2021. In October 2020 they discussed remortgaging with Sandringham Financial Partners 
Limited (Sandringham). 
Mrs J and Mr J were in the process of selling their business. They say Sandringham advised 
them not to pay off their mortgage with the proceeds of sale but to invest the proceeds, 
which would put them in a better position financially. 
The remortgage completed in February 2021. Mrs J and Mr J took a two-year fixed interest 
rate product on a mortgage with a new lender and were subject to an early repayment 
charge (ERC) if they paid the mortgage off within the two-year period.
Mrs J and Mr J sold their business in March 2021. Following discussions about their financial 
situation with other advisers, they decided to redeem the mortgage. They were concerned 
income from the investment of the proceeds of sale of their business might not be enough to 
meet their monthly expenditure if the investments performed poorly. And they say their 
investments did perform poorly during 2021, so they would have been in a worse position if 
they hadnt taken that action. 
Mrs J and Mr J say, when they were advising on their mortgage, Sandringham should have 
looked into their appetite for risk and ability to cover their outgoings if their investments from 
the business proceeds didnt perform well. They werent prepared to accept the risk of 
having to pay the mortgage from capital. So, Sandringham should have advised them to pay 
the mortgage off. 
Sandringham didnt uphold Mrs J and Mr Js complaint. They acknowledged theyd 
discussed the sale of the business in October 2020, but Mrs J and Mr Js main aim then was 
to remortgage on the best available terms to save interest. Sandringham didnt know when 
the business sale would go through or that Mrs J and Mr Js income would reduce. And    
Mrs J and Mr J made the decision to redeem the mortgage without advice from 
Sandringham. 
Mrs J and Mr J werent happy with Sandringhams response so brought their complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think Sandringham had done anything 
wrong. Mrs J and Mr J felt he hadnt taken into account that the mortgage advice was part of 
overall investment advice, which wasnt suitable. Since they didnt accept our investigators 
view, their complaints been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sandringham agree they discussed the sale of Mrs J and Mr Js business at the October 
2020 meeting. Sandringham dont accept they advised Mrs J and Mr J it would be better to 
invest the proceeds of sale of the business than repaying the mortgage. And theres a 
dispute about what Sandringham knew regarding when the sale would take place, how it 
would affect Mr Js income and the advice Sandringham ought to have given based on what 
they knew. To come to a fair and reasonable outcome I need to decide, based on the 
available evidence, what I think is more likely than not to have happened in the 
circumstances of Mrs J and Mr Js complaint. 
Even if Sandringham were aware of the potential value of the sale proceeds, I think its 
unlikely theyd have advised remortgaging was the best financial option for Mrs J and Mr J 
without considering appropriate investment opportunities and returns based on their appetite 
for risk  as they began to later. And, whilst Mrs J and Mr J have reasonably relied on 
financial advisers in making investment decisions over the years, Im conscious they have 
some financial experience as buy to let landlords and business owners. So, I think its 
unlikely they would have remortgaged without understanding the commitment they were 
entering into and that the potential income investing the business sale proceeds might 
generate couldnt be established until the sale completed.
Im satisfied the sale of Mrs J and Mr Js business was in its early stages when they first 
discussed remortgaging with Sandringham. Mr Js said it wasnt until early December 2020 
that heads of terms for an offer regarding the sale were available. 
The fact find Sandringham completed in early November recorded Mrs J and Mr J were 
seeking advice on mortgages and neither of them expected a change in their income or 
situation that might affect their future needs. Given the sale of their business was only a 
possibility then, its likely this information was accurate at the time. And it was reasonable for 
Sandringham to make recommendations about remortgaging on that basis. 
The fact find shows Mrs J and Mr J wanted a repayment mortgage over the longest available 
term and to fix their monthly payments for one to two years on the best available rate. The 
mortgage illustration reflected those preferences, as did the suitability report Sandringham 
sent Mrs J and Mr J. The report explained the mortgage recommendations included:
The lender was recommending the most competitive rate
Mrs J and Mr J wanted a fixed rate so they had certainty about their monthly 
outgoings
They wanted a two-year deal rather than a longer term as they were looking to sell 
their business and wanted the flexibility of a shorter term. 
It set out Sandringham had made a preliminary assessment of affordability based on what 
Mrs J and Mr J had disclosed about their personal and financial circumstances. And it asked 
them to contact Sandringham if they felt anything was incorrect. The mortgage offer issued 
in January 2021 was in similar terms to the earlier illustration and reflected Mrs J and Mr Js 
needs and requirements as set out in the fact find and suitability report.
Mr J recalls telling Sandringham the business sale price, his future salary and that they could 
pay off some or all of the mortgage before the mortgage completed. I havent seen any 
documentary evidence of that. Sandringham have no recollection they discussed the 
business sale again before March 2021 when Mrs J and Mr J came back to them for investment advice. The correspondence passing between the parties before then makes no 
mention of it. On balance, Im not persuaded Sandringham had the full sale details or knew 
about the salary reduction. And I dont think the evidence shows Sandringham deliberately 
delayed advising on investing the proceeds of sale so they could benefit from additional 
work, as Mrs J and Mr J suspect. 
From what Ive seen, I think Mrs J and Mr Js main aim was to secure a favourable interest 
rate and consider paying off the mortgage once the fixed rate term had ended. If theyd 
known the sale would complete in March, they could have waited to see what sort of income 
their investment might generate once the proceeds of sale were known, and, if appropriate 
taken a fixed rate at a later date. 
Bearing everything in mind, based on the information they had, I think the advice 
Sandringham gave was suitable as it reasonably met Mrs J and Mr Js needs and 
requirements based on the information theyd provided.
I dont think Mrs J and Mr J are suggesting they didnt understand the terms of the mortgage 
illustration and offer. But, if Im wrong about that, I think the terms were sufficiently clear. And 
Id expect Mrs J and Mr J to have understood, when they accepted the mortgage offer, 
theyd be liable to pay the ERC if they redeemed the mortgage early. I appreciate Mrs J and 
Mr J became concerned their new income might not be enough to meet their outgoings. 
They decided to redeem the mortgage knowing theyd incur the ERC. Since Im satisfied 
Sandringham gave suitable advice, I dont hold them responsible for the ERC or any other 
losses Mrs J and Mr J may have incurred.
Whilst I understand Mrs J and Mr J will be disappointed with my decision, I dont uphold their 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs J and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman